u2014-09-24-0	Dear Parliament, The third day of the fall session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Erzsébet Schmuck and László Föld will be present at the meeting for my assistance. Dear Parliament, Mr András Schiffer, Head of the Group of the LMP, spoke before the agenda today: "Slowed coup." You have the floor.
u2014-09-24-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At these moments in Kossuth Square, the Hungarian organization of Earth Friends, the MTVSZ, organises a movement against the free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States, and at the same time similar protests take place in many cities of Europe. We are talking about a free trade agreement that covers both food safety, chemical regulation, health and pharmaceutical prices, Internet freedom, consumer protection, energy and cultural services, copyright, land use, protection of natural resources, public procurement and private protection. We are talking about a convention that seeks to protect investors' privileges in the areas of national food, data protection, culture, climate policy and financial regulation, so that taxpayers then pay millions of dollars as compensation to large companies. Dear Parliament, This convention is an attack on food security, climate policy, an attack on the regulation of the money sector. At the bottom of the global financial crisis, there were all kinds of vows about re-regulation of the financial sector, and now they want to take back the little, and they want to permanently prevent the introduction of taxes on Tobin's tax, speculative capital movements. There is a convention under negotiation that will bring down environmental, labour and health rules in Europe, in terms of regulatory coherence. We are facing a danger that basically undermines Hungary's GMO-freeness, we are faced with an agreement that could flood Europe with health-damaging chemicals, which could endanger the environmental safety of the Carpathian Basin, for example, by requiring that the gold mine must be built on Verespatak, undermine climate protection efforts and virtually eliminate local food from the Hungarian and European markets. We are faced with an agreement that, if it is implemented, will continue to impose on the global ecological system and will be able to release new financial balloons. Dear Parliament, One of the most dangerous elements of this Convention is the dispute settlement mechanism that allows national governments to be brought before opaque and unaccountable private courts if different environmental, consumer or health rules are introduced which, where appropriate, jeopardise the profits of giant companies. To make it clear what we are dealing with: the European Union and the United States have previously been suing Egypt on the basis of similar free trade agreements for a minimum wage increase. In the past, for example, the American company Renco has exercised its right to pollution against Peru, which is perversion in itself. Back in the day, Eli Lilly pharmaceutical company won millions of dollars against Canada under the North American Free Trade Agreement for a reduction in drug prices. A slow-motion coup is taking place around the world, and the various free trade agreements make it possible that giant companies will effectively take over national governments with the help of uncontrollable private courts. The situation will arise if Hungary does not take part in this, the countries of Eastern and Southern Europe that will lose this will have virtually no room for manoeuvre on basic health and environmental issues in the European Union or national governments. The fact that 600 large corporate lobbyists work alongside the United States negotiating delegation is very telling. The current EU Trade Commissioner has met with civil society organisations on eight occasions and has met with large corporate lobbyists 119 times. The objective is clear: large companies want to expand their influence on areas that are essentially governed by popular representation and national governments. We can use the suspicion that the United States worldwide wiretapping scandal is also linked to these free trade negotiations. At the time, the North American Free Trade Convention in Mexico ruined the small and medium-sized enterprise sector in the long term. We are dealing with an agreement that is good for large companies, but not good for small and medium-sized enterprises, not good for periphery and semi-periphery, but good for the Member States of the European Union. It is not enough that Hungary stands for GMO-free in itself; it is not enough to discuss the dispute resolution mechanism alone; Hungary's sovereignty in addition to the Orbán-Putin pact is now between the European Union and the United States. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You are also in danger of a free trade agreement, and this agreement puts the planet's future in jeopardy. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-24-2	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, In response, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, who wishes to answer on behalf of the government.
u2014-09-24-3	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In July 2013, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP), which was launched by the European Union and the United States, aims to strengthen the economic growth of the parties and create employment opportunities by removing barriers to bilateral trade and investment, i.e. customs, non-tariff restrictions and the largest possible number of unnecessary bureaucratic regulations. However, the importance of the forthcoming FTA goes beyond direct economic benefits, can contribute to closer transatlantic relations, and the agreement can strengthen the two parties in international competition with emerging economies. On the Hungarian side, we have always supported the launch of free trade negotiations between the two great economic poles of the developed world. Such a convention can bring significant benefits both directly and indirectly to the open, export-oriented Hungarian economy. We are interested to see the content of this agreement meet our expectations and help the government achieve its economic growth and employment goals. Honourable Congressman, It is important to point out that free trade negotiations do not aim to undermine or restrict the possibilities of democratic policy decisions by Member States. The EU does not negotiate the current levels of environmental protection and health protection; they are not the subject of a deal. It is therefore unrealistic that the agreement could put our country's environmental and health achievements at risk. The negotiating mandate given to the European Commission, as required by the Hungarian Government, stated that the parties will continue to have the right to regulate consumer, environmental, safety and health issues at the level they consider appropriate. Reducing the levels of protection provided by EU and international legislation to maintain them, such as GMOs, should not be the subject of negotiations. [[10.10]] Therefore, the Member's concern that the negotiations could result in the risk of the GMO exemption laid down in our country's Fundamental Law is unfounded. Free trade negotiations are therefore not about relaxing and facilitating standards, but about how, while maintaining a high level of protection, the costs of businesses operating in the transatlantic market can be reduced by regulatory differences, which for the time being will have to be paid to Hungarian citizens in the price of goods and services. Honourable Congressman, Due to the importance of the free trade initiative of the EU and the United States, the Hungarian Government has been paying particular attention since the beginning of the negotiations to ensure that domestic interests are properly enforced in the agreement. In 2013 the Government ordered the establishment of the Transatlantic Coordination Interface Committee - TKTB, in order to discuss and coordinate regularly the Hungarian position on issues raised in the negotiations. The President of the College shall be the Secretary of State. I recommend that the Committee be consulted by the Member on questions relating to TTIP. The committee is at your disposal, as well. Honourable Congressman, Hungary is not interested in unilateral agreements which are detrimental to us, and we would not have given our support to the European Union to start such negotiations. I can assure you, Member, that Hungary, together with the other Member States, will be able to take action throughout the negotiations to protect European people from risks to their health, safety, environmental and financial security. It is a guarantee that, following a multi-annual negotiation, an international agreement with the Congress of the United States, the European Parliament and all the Member States of the Union, including the Hungarian Parliament, must be approved, thus it is not possible to conclude an international agreement with a content contrary to our Fundamental Law reflecting the national consensus. [[Dr. András Schiffer: What consensus?]] So Congressman's fear is unfounded. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-4	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Hargitai, Member of the KDNP Group, also spoke before the agenda: "The accountability of banks. " You have the floor.
u2014-09-24-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I think that if we were to take into account the issues that determine the country's long-term life, then we should definitely talk about three issues. One is demographic development and population scarcity, and the other is the country's lack of capital - the HUF 1200 billion we can use from EU funds for development in this EU budget cycle, of course, in this capital deficit situation - and the third is such a question, there can be no debate between us, the problem of debt itself. Four years ago, when the Orbán government came to government, we had to face the very sad fact that Hungary was indebted by 130 percent of GDP. We always talk about the debt of the state, which was above 80% of GDP at the time, but when we take full account of debt, we also need to see the debt of the population and the debt of companies. The state's indebtedness itself has become almost unmanageable, but what is perhaps the most important thing for all of us today, politicians, is the indebtedness of individuals and the improvement of their fate. It is not by accident that, after a long agony, the Parliament has faced this in substance, and today we are voting on the accountability of the banks, the draft law before us. Since the change of regime, perhaps there hasn't been such a large reorganization of property as this law has done. Forints 1000 billion will migrate or migrate from bank accounts to customers, as this money was once with customers, only the banks took it away from them using different techniques. We're talking about a million 300,000 contracts. It is an unimaginable number; there are 1 million 300,000 families behind it. So we can say that one third of the Hungarian families are affected. Those involved - and you know it - who do not have this type of contract, because as long as the country cannot improve its foreign currency exposure, the trap situation for us remains. So all Hungarian families are involved, and I think that Hungarian families know this, so we can say that perhaps today the government and politics have managed to create support and consensus in society, that the solution to this issue will not be delayed. By the way, given the general debate here in Parliament, I can say that the government has also reached this consensus among political parties, because the representatives of all the parties that are subject to it have taken a position to support this bill. Perhaps the independent congresswoman speaking in the colors of the Bajnai party alone spoke a little differently, but even she may change her mind until the vote. This consensus was also established by the government in the system of justice. We remember that when the Prime Minister or the former Minister of Justice spoke at some point, asking the Curia to take a stand on many private contracts in these matters, this organisation reluctantly did so. Today, the Mansion has decisions that have defined our further legislative work. This consensus may not be fully visible in the banking world, as the banking world is still suing the state against the government in these matters, but that is understandable; obviously, they must do everything to protect the interests of their own owners in this change of ownership. At the same time, I am convinced that banking professionals know that the banking system must undergo this purification, because the banking system cannot be strengthened as long as it carries with it contracts of this type, and there are many clients who are insolvent or insolvent. This is why it is important to have the legislation that we have ahead of us, and the consensus that the government has been able to reach in order to resolve the issue, because without reducing public debt, without reducing the debt of private people, the country's other issues of fate cannot be resolved. Therefore, let us pay attention to the fact that we are successfully completing this legislative task today, so that we can start making banks accountable and clearing banks towards customers in practice. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-6	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Répássy Róbert wishes to speak. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. [[10.20]]
u2014-09-24-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, today the debt of 1 million 300 thousand families may be reduced by more than HUF 1000 billion as a result of the Parliament's decision. Once again: 1 million 300 000 families are affected by bank accountability, of which around 680,000 foreign currency loans and 650 thousand HUF loans are accounted for, the main principle of which is that the unfair income, the unfairly acquired advantage, banks have to give back to customers, because unfairness, the application of unfair contractual terms is not simply a moral issue, but results in partial nullity in these contracts, so it is legally prohibited to apply unfair contractual terms. I would like to stress that this is not a matter of retroactive legislation, it is not about banks having to pay a new burden, but these contracts, these foreign exchange and forint-based credit contracts, had to comply with the laws even at the moment of conclusion of the contracts, and they had to comply with the requirements of fairness and fair procedure. And, as we have said many times and have said many times, this amount, which banks have to pay back to customers or make up for in customers' accounts, the banks have already received it from customers once, so they have to return the customers' money. Therefore, the current law is truly historic, comparable to that at the time of the change of regime. I believe that all those who support this 1 million 300 000 families in this law, whether they are Members of Parliament, whether they are independent actors in the judiciary or private people, experts, all of them will help this 1 million 300 thousand families to get well and ease their burdens today. Thank you very much, Congressman, for drawing attention to this. On behalf of the government, I ask once again every member of the Parliament to support the adoption of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-8	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Lukács, Member of the MSZP Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda: " What is Viktor Orbán up to after the election? ' The title is given below. I give you the floor.
u2014-09-24-9	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent weeks, various leaks of information have come to light from the Prime Minister's environment, but they have all pointed in one direction, in the direction that the Prime Minister is preparing for major fiscal changes after the elections, in the form of a austerity package, which could very, very deeply and very adversely affect Hungarian people, Hungarian taxpayers. Orbán said that he wanted to make less and less people living in the state. If we translate this, it obviously means talking about pensioners, health care, education and the public sector; these are the four most important areas that could affect the state. However, this may affect the population so deeply that, according to information from the Prime Minister's environment, he did not dare or want to talk about these plans at your season opening meeting. You obviously think they'd vote for anything that wouldn't be unprecedented. After that, Minister Varga said in particular yesterday that a austerity package of 1700 billion will be prepared for the elections, which also explained why the submission of next year's budget was pushed out. Most likely because it would show us how serious restrictions and withdrawals are expected. What is this 1700 billion? 1700 billion forints, even if we split it down to three years, means about 570 billion years of austerity or withdrawal. The reduction of the rent, which you are very proud of and probably loved by people, left about 300 billion forints a year in households. So you've left 300 billion, and now you want to take 570 out of the household three years a year. Family tax relief meant HUF 230 billion a year to the families, and now you will take back more than double of that from the families every year. Now we've heard that people can get 1,000 billion from the currency-credited rescue package or after the accountability bill, and in three years they want to squeeze 1700 billion from here on people. But the total amount of labour market support is about HUF 330 billion, which is almost double in one year. Pension spending amounts to HUF 3000 billion a year, so it amounts to almost HUF 1700 billion of annual pension expenditure, not nearly, but more than half. And we spend 520 billion per year on the social, child protection, children's meals and welfare expenses of local governments, which you will withdraw in this package. It would be very nice if you could just clean up and tell me what this 1700 billion is, what that means, what your plans are. It would be very good if Minister Varga brought the budget to the House by 30 September, as he should have been brought here by 30 September. Put out your cards, see that budget, see what's in it, see if this withdrawal exists or doesn't exist. Obviously, there is no buzzing of the bell if the wind does not blow; it is obviously no coincidence that Mihály Varga made these statements at that conference. Ladies and gentlemen. You probably want to touch pensions, as you have already touched pensions, because you have taken a lot of money from disabled pensioners, in terms of service pensions, early retirement, mining pensions, soldiers and police officers. Then a letter was sent to the widow's pensioners to prepare for the withdrawal of the widow's pension, and then it was quickly withdrawn, and they said it was sent out because of a computer error. Well, obviously the computer wrote these letters on its own and mailed them. But then they backed out of it. And now we see that they're all going to do it. It is likely that the payment or part-paying of health care is in this 1700 billion; again, it is in the 1700 billion that more young people will have to pay tuition fees; they are very likely to think about taxing pensions or reducing the value or size of pensions. This could all be in this 1700 billion. I ask the government's respondents to be so kind, of course, after the mandatory eight-year period, to state whether there is such an idea, whether they know at all, whether they are able to bring the budget up to 30, and are able to tell people what they are planning to do before the municipal elections. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-24-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-09-24-11	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Socialist Party is constant in one thing, namely that even if it is on the government, even if it is in opposition, it is always talking about austerity, it is showing restraint. When he's on the government, he's making a decision about restrictions, like, for example, in your eight years. I'll give you some examples. For example, you have reduced the pension because you have taken away the 13th month pension, or you have reduced the public sector's wages, or you have wanted to make health care pay, which you have been able to prevent by referendum. But during your time, for example, government debt rose by 12,000 billion, some 30 percent of GDP. I ask you not to get involved in this austerity, because that is not what Viktor Orbán will do after the elections. First of all, the Prime Minister will congratulate you on the night of the election. [[Zoltán Lukács: To whom?]] Congratulations to the local government leaders who have been re-elected and will congratulate those who first won, let's say, the mayor's title and encourage them to start working in the municipalities. The Prime Minister and his government will continue the work they have done between 2010 and 2014, for example in terms of fiscal balance. In eight years, you have not once managed to bring the budget below 3 percent. This government brought the country out of the budgetary deficit procedure in the summer of 2013, and it will hold on to this, because the basic condition of the country's assessment is that we can keep the fiscal balance. [[10.30]] Mihály Varga wasn't talking about austerity, and he wasn't talking about 1700 billion. You're making this up. He talked about the need to reduce public expenditure in proportion to GDP. This has always been the goal of all governments. This does not mean that the current figures have to be calculated by number, but means that, let's say, with the continuous growth of GDP, keeping public spending in check, for example, this number will decrease year after year. There is no such restriction. But the Orbán government will continue its policy of reducing public debt, which, as I said, you have failed. This government has managed to stop it, and in the future, even to a lesser extent, but it will reduce its public debt-to-GDP ratio. But the government has also been able to deliver success in terms of employment, as the number of unemployed is already below 8 percent, and more than 160,000 people are working than in the previous period. But we also managed to increase real income, thereby increasing consumption. I believe that economic growth, sustained economic growth, is a sure basis for increasing real income. There will be changes in the use of EU funds, which will basically serve the economy, employment, economic growth, sustainable economic growth. The government's objective is clear that 60 percent of EU funds should go to the economy, thereby strengthening and increasing the economy. However, we want to continue with the policy of reducing the costs and perpetuating the results that we have achieved in terms of reducing the costs, so we want to achieve greater public participation. We would like to finish the problem and problem of foreign exchange lenders, on the one hand, with the settlement, the law of which we will adopt today, and then continue with the forinting, so that we can close the XXI once and for all. The biggest social problem in Hungary. All in all, we would therefore like to continue the economic policy on which we have laid the foundations, the aim of which is to increase employment in Hungary. The aim of this is to achieve lasting economic growth and thus improve the situation of families and Hungarians. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-24-12	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Németh, Fidesz Group, also spoke before the agenda: "A campaign of hatred against dual citizenship. " I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-09-24-13	Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, We could also say that there is an election campaign, there is nothing surprising about the fact that the left has launched a hate campaign against Hungarians across the border. On the columns of the Index we saw the other day that Hungary would have issued tens of thousands of false citizenships in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen. What, on the other hand, is reality? About the same reality as in the period of 23 million Romanians, in connection with the settlement of 23 million Romanians in Hungary. The past period was marked by the addition of 660 thousand Hungarian citizens to the civic community. We can report 22,000 rejected applications, 110 reports have been made and some 20 cases of withdrawal of citizenship have had to be initiated. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that these statistics speak for themselves. The process that started in 2010 was tabled by five of us, the Prime Minister, Mr Speaker, Minister at the time, and perhaps we can say that the 97 percent national consensus is also about a unique success story. What is it about, after all, preferential naturalization? First of all, it speaks of the fact that the cross-border reunification of fragmented Hungarians is a key objective of government policy. It also talks about people, rehabilitating foreign Hungarians deprived of their fundamental rights, putting them back in their rights and dignity. Therefore, I think that there should be much more recognition in the direction of the Hungarian government on the basis of legal, thorough procedure, documentary examination, methodological guidelines on the control of Hungarian language skills; the commitment of consular staff to Csíkszereda, Cluj-Napoca, Subotica, Beregszász, Ungvár, the professional apparatus of the Ministry of Interior and local governments and towards Hungarian diplomacy, who have fought outstanding battles over the past year in order to accept the institution of preferential localization in bilateral and multilateral forums. Of course, we still have our duties, Minister, as we would like to extend preferential localization to Hungarians in Slovakia. This will be a key task for the coming period. The real goal is to reach the number of 1 million Hungarian citizens from abroad in four years. But I think that what is happening now on the Index and on the campaign warns us in any way that we also need to strengthen the national consensus on preferential localisation. Because it is simply a slander that a mass abuse of citizenship would take place, that tens of thousands of Russians would receive Hungarian citizenship. It's just slander. With respect, I would like to ask the well poisoners to either press charges if they find any specific cases, or to stop unfounded slanders against preferential localization, dual citizenship, because the process of the cross-border reunification of Hungarians continues, with the active support of the Hungarian government. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-24-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2014-09-24-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman. Dear House, Indeed, as Congressman said, for the universal Hungarian nation, naturalization is one of the most important actions we have done for Hungarianism. If there is a success story, then the history of naturalization is a success story. The law itself is based on European Union experience, Spanish, Portuguese, Italian experience and, for example, Romanian experience. And according to everything, the district offices, the Immigration and Nationality Office and the embassies manage the naturalization process. I stress that it is only possible to provide proof of language skills in person, for example. Not to mention the fact that passports carry biometric identification, which in its definition precludes any abuse in this respect. Of course, what you can live with can be abused. If, say, a grocery store sells buns, then there'll be people trying to steal croissants. But I would like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that when there was an attempt or abuse, they were taken by the police in handcuffs, as TV viewers could be convinced. In each case of citizenship, there is, first of all, a very strict administrative control, police and national security control. But we also have to face it, honourable House, that some countries are not enthusiastic about what we are doing with naturalization to unite the nation. And so, to put it this way, the least not friendly organizations are trying to disinformation and conversion, in a form where they create fictitious websites where non-existent people tell stories that don't exist. Then they try to spread it as widely as possible with different whispering propaganda. Unfortunately, Hungarian actors sometimes assist with this knowledge or ignorance The timing of the whole thing is particularly interesting. It is exactly as Congressman said, that there are municipal elections on which the foreigners do not vote. That's probably why they're trying to make you feel better about them. [[10.40]] It is not a coincidence that Minister Navracsics will have a portfolio of citizenship issues, and this is probably also intended to give ammunition to his opponents and thus to the opponents of the country. But the most interesting thing is that, although there was no actuality, what the House thought, what the Members thought, which day was the timing of all this. The date on which the Slovak Constitutional Court presented its decision on citizenship. It takes great faith, dear House, to make this a coincidence. I would also like to address my fellow Members on the left here. Well, in the case of citizenship, if anyone had to lay low, it was Ferenc Gyurcsány's company, and ultimately the Socialist Party, because then Ferenc Gyurcsány was your party president. I note that those who raised their voice for the sake of foreign Hungarians have already been removed from among themselves, I think of Katalin Szili, and I would even venture that Attila Mesterházy has gone to apologize to the Hungarians abroad, and is no longer the president of the MSZP. And on December 5, 2014, the tenth anniversary of the nation treason when a government did not turn to campaign against its own nation. This stamp, by the way, was so deep in their foreheads that they would hardly be able to remove it through a lifetime. The Hungarians from abroad gave the left two percent. Looks like it's been a lot for you too. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-09-24-16	I thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member Gábor Staudt, Jobbik Group, also spoke before the agenda: "The real accountability of the perpetrators of foreign exchange credit fraud. "
u2014-09-24-17	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Since the Curia's decision, it can be said that the lending practices of the banks, and in particular for foreign exchange loans, were mass illegal and unfair for loans that lied to the currency. This has also been confirmed by the Constitutional Court's decision, so we can talk about a mass practice in which the banks have clearly acted in a mass fraudulent manner at the expense of their customers with a view to generating profits. The government employs a half-solution with more than four years late. Half-solution, because, on the one hand, the forinting is hovered as a kind of vague promise in the future, perhaps - they say - it will be introduced next year, while the forinting would be one of the real legs of accountability, and what you say to the other, accounting for interest, it is so narrow, and it does not name the person responsible, that it is really difficult to call it real accountability. It's like the banks have to pay back part of their illegal loan shark, and not even directly return it to the clients, but the debt only the banks claim to be in debt. It is deducted from an illegal debt on paper, i.e. a virtual refund is made from a virtual debt. That's the big accounting you're talking about. But let's keep going. Also, the identification of the personnel responsible seems to be canceled. Banks have decision-makers, banks have managers who have made these decisions, who have done these foreign exchange frauds. Reimbursing some of the goods is not a punishment. Think about it: if someone goes into a store, steals a TV, and then gets caught and has to return that TV, is that the real punishment? To say, sir, bring it back, and everything's taken care of? The Btk. the fact of fraud is that anyone who makes a mistake or makes a mistake in order to make a wrongful profit and causes harm is committing fraud. The senior officials of financial institutions involved in foreign exchange fraud have clearly implemented this fact because they have made a mistake and then have been mistaken, committed for undue profit, and have caused particularly significant damage, which has also been acknowledged by the government's present representative in terms of volumes. That's Btk. He's ordering him to go to prison for up to 5-15 years, but we still don't see criminal proceedings starting. We also call on the Attorney General to take action to establish the personal responsibility of commercial fraud. But there is also the responsibility of public organizations who, although they knew about it, have left these frauds. They knew about it because people turned to these organs in bulk. For example, I could mention the Hungarian National Bank, such as PSZF, or the Hungarian Competition Authority, as an organization supervising unfair competition or the Consumer Protection Authority, which is intended to sanction unfair behaviour against consumers and has not done so. It is important to point out that, in addition to the main penalties, additional penalties could be imposed, and we believe that they should be applied after the Curia has been established and after the Constitutional Court has been established. What could they be? This is nothing more than a ban on the practice of the profession. This can be applied against a person who commits a criminal offence by violating the rules of his professional profession or is deliberately committing it using his employment. And on the basis of the new rules, this can be imposed not only for a certain period of time but also with definitive effect. And the final scope can be applied to those who are unfit or unworthy to pursue their occupation on the grounds of the crimes committed. I believe that, on the basis of what you have said, and following the decision of the Curia, there is no need to prove any particular inadequacy, that these leaders, whether bank leaders or leaders of financial sector control organisations, have acted unworthyly and are unfit to pursue the occupation that they have done in recent years and decades. So we want real accountability, real justice. I would also like to say that first we want to hear names, names of the people responsible, and then we want judgments, convictions. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-09-24-18	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Répássy Róbert wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2014-09-24-19	Thank you for the floor. Your Honor, Mr. Prosecutor, My apologies, Mr. Mayor-designate. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Congressman!]] Following the formation of the government, he faced the inherited, extremely serious situation that hundreds of thousands of families could lose their homes because of their mortgage-based foreign exchange loans. In order to help those in distress, the government has taken a number of steps to address the problem of foreign exchange loans. Among other things, he made it possible to pay off. Nearly 170 thousand debtors made use of this option, the debt thus released was about 370 billion forints. In addition, it introduced an exchange rate fixation to mitigate the effects of exchange rate fluctuations. By the end of June 2014, nearly 180 thousand foreign exchange taxpayers concluded such contracts. The most difficult debtors were protected by the government's eviction moratorium, preventing them from getting on the street. In addition, the National Asset Manager can provide a real solution for foreign exchange lenders, with the National Asset Manager taking over nearly 19 thousand apartments from debtors by the end of April 2014. This number could reach 25 grand by the end of the year. Following the decision of the Curia, the Government immediately submitted to Parliament the draft legislation necessary to resolve the issue of foreign exchange creditors, which was adopted by the Parliament on 4 July 2014. Under the law, financial institutions have to reimburse debtors for significant amounts due to the unilateral and unfairly increased interest rate and the use of the exchange rate gap. Today, we can also have legislation setting out the exact amount of money due back to each foreign exchange creditor and the way in which the refund is refunded. I deny that accounting, accountability, as you said, would be narrow, affecting 1 million 300 thousand families, and that the total debt of 1 million 300 thousand families could be reduced by more than HUF 1000 billion. This is added to the HUF 370 billion in which the debt of the 170,000 final repayments has been reduced. So the two amounts are slowly approaching 1400 billion forints. [[10.50]] I would also like to point out that this law has not reduced virtual debt, since the overpayment will be credited to the benefit of the capital debt. So it reduces a real - not virtual, real - debt to the credible, borrowers who are still in the process of borrowing. And those of you who have already run out of loans will actually get back the amount that was paid to the banks as overpayments, and it turned out that it was unfair. Honourable Congressman, I don't want to analyze your criminal arguments. If you consider that there has been a criminal offence in this case, although I note that such reports have been made in recent years, since you are not the first to assume that banks or bankers, since there may be criminal liability for individuals, fraud or other crimes, I suggest you make such a complaint. I can assure you that we will take measures within the competence of the government, but you obviously know that this is beyond what the judiciary must decide on these matters. [[It's constant noise.]] Finally, I ask you and the Members of Parliament of Jobbik today to support the Government's proposal to reduce, as I have said, the debt of 1 million 300 thousand families, and to get rid of a large part of their debt. Of course, I will ask you to support further steps by the government to help families affected by foreign exchange credit and other consumer loan agreements. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-09-24-20	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, My fellow Members, please take your seats, there is very high ground noise in the room before we continue our work. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Ms Erzsébet Schmuck to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2014-09-24-21	Dear Parliament, László Varju, independent; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; György László Lukács, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Ikotity, István, LMP; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; László Kiss, MSZP; Ildikó Bangóné, MSZP; Márta Demeter, MSZP. László György Lukács, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Ikotity, István LMP; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Márta Demeter, MSZP; László Kiss, MSZP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.
u2014-09-24-22	Thank you, notary. Dear Parliament, I declare that Mr Tibor Navracsics has resigned as Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade with effect from 22 September. He informed the Speaker of the Parliament that he no longer wished to receive his fellow Members' fees in the light of his new mandate. Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to thank the Minister for his work so far and to wish him an effective work and success in his mandate as European Commissioner. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Dear Parliament, The House Committee held an extraordinary meeting prior to the meeting today. There was no consensus on the issue of the political debate planned for Friday's meeting as the item on the EU issue of the House Committee. I would like to inform you that the House Committee has agreed to derogate from house rules. We will decide on this when we adopt the agenda. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We will decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits, the speech by the keynote speaker on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the House Committee has proposed a derogation from house rules. In this he initiated that the Legislative Committee was T/466. It can re-submit its preliminary amendment to the previous legislative proposal with an amended content, and the vote on it and the final vote on the amended single proposal will take place today. Proposal for a derogation from house rules T/466/20. can be found on the network. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the T/466/20 contributes to the departure from the house rules. On the basis of a number of recommendations. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Parliament has accepted the derogation from the house rules by 159 yes, by 8 votes, without abstention. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the time frame for the presentation. Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 86. Article 37 (1) of the Rules of Procedure provides for the negotiation of the political debate. § 2 of the Act requires a time frame to be set. Article 37 Pursuant to § (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame on a proposal from the House Committee. On this basis, the House Committee takes the initiative that the "What will Hungary be deprived of in the Paks agreement? " V/284. The Parliament will discuss the number 1 proposal in a four-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. I would like to ask Mr László Földi to explain this.
u2014-09-24-23	Dear Parliament, The proposed four-hour timeframe is divided into 83 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 46 minutes for the MSZP Group, 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 37 minutes for the KDNP Group, 25 minutes for the LMP Group and 8 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2014-09-24-24	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to discuss the proposal within a four-hour time frame. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the hearing of the proposal with 128 votes in favour, 44 votes against and no abstentions in a four-hour time frame. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a recommendation on the agenda, which has been tabled by the President, which has been amended by way of derogation from the adopted house rule. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept this. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, During today's discussion of the proposal for a resolution entitled "The 70th anniversary of Henryk Sławik's death and the 40th anniversary of the death of József Antall Senior, " there are speeches in Polish. This is translated into Hungarian by a synchronized interpreter for the people in the room. Prior to the meeting, all our fellow Members were seated to receive the information containing the use of the interpretation equipment. I would ask you to study this brochure until the item on the agenda is discussed. Dear Parliament, We're about to take the minister's oath. I declare that President János Áder has sent a transcript to the President of the Parliament. I would ask Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck to explain this. [[11.00]]
u2014-09-24-25	" To Mr. László Kövér, President of the Parliament, Budapest. Mr President, I would like to inform the National Assembly that the 2010 XLIII. Law 42. In accordance with Article 2 of the Act on Foreign Affairs and Trade, I concluded that this mandate of Mr Tibor Navracsics, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, will be terminated with effect from 22 September 2014. In addition, Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 54. On the basis of Article 4 (c) and Article 16 (7) of the Fundamental Law, I have declared that this mandate of Mr Péter Szijjártó, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, will be terminated with effect from 22 September 2014, and I have appointed Péter Szijjártó as Foreign Minister with effect from 23 September 2014. Budapest, 21 September 2014 Greetings: János Áder "
u2014-09-24-26	Thank you, notary. Dear Parliament, I declare that Mr Péter Szijjártó Minister-designate has been heard and appointed by the Committee on European Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Economic and National Inclusion. Now the solemn oath and the oath will be signed. I call on Minister Peter Szijjártó to come to the centre of the Chamber. I ask you, notary Lajos Szűcs, to read the words of the oath. As usual, stand up and listen to the oath. [[The people in this room stand up. Peter Szijjártó steps into the middle of the room. Notary Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2014-09-24-27	I, Péter Szijjártó, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as a minister for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2014-09-24-28	Dear Parliament, I ask Mr. József Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature, and Minister Péter Szijjártó to sign it. [[It's happening. Attila Móring József, who signed the oath document, congratulates Péter Szijjártó and gives a copy of the signed oath document. For Péter Szijjártó first Viktor Orbán, Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Antal Rogán, Péter Harrach, Dr. András Schiffer, Márton Gyöngyösi, Dr. Bertalan Tóth, Gábor Fodor and Csaba Hende congratulated him.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, For the new mandate of Minister Péter Szijjártó, I wish Parliament and myself effective work and good luck. Dear Parliament, Now, at 11:4 p.m., we're moving on to interpellations, immediate questions and questions. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: " How much is the KLIK worth? " The title is given below. Congressman István Hiller has the floor.
u2014-09-24-29	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Yes, Mr. Minister. [[Zoltán Balog will be replaced by Dr. Bence Rétvári in the ministerial seat.]] I would like to talk about public education and the activities of the Institute-Sustaining Centre named Klebelsberg - the poor one. While I have addressed Minister, I will now speak to Secretary of State in all likelihood. Dear Secretary of State, " There is no cause for concern about the operation of the CLIK, " a quote, a confident statement made by the former Head of State Secretariat for Public Education in March of this year. The sentence fit well into the line of eulogy that the then leaders of public education did. " The KLIK works well and cheaply, " said a radio broadcast by many people, Arena at the end of April, and even at the beginning of the summer, the president of the institution safely stated that although there were problems in the previous school year, this year's school year would be different. He became something else, at least in that he was fired, and now the secretary of state is no longer the same. The problems remained, however, becoming more and more significant, and despite all previous victory reports, the safe financing of the academic year that began in September has become doubtful. As a matter of fact, in the former Education and Science Committee of the Parliament, government and opposition representatives at that time pointed out that serious errors and unprofessional measures had already been made in the planning of the budget. At the same time, from the leaders of the KLIK until the end of the last academic year, all you could hear was that everything was okay. Then, at a government meeting at the end of the summer, the government was forced to make the decision to provide an immediate HUF 19.7 billion supplement to the Institutional Maintenance Centre, because the problems were felt that the situation had become unsustainable and the funding of the school year was facing serious problems. Dear Secretary of State, I ask you, who was right then: those who, in their confident statements in the spring and even at the beginning of the summer, said that everything was all right, or the government of which you were a member, which was forced to fire, and had to provide immediate assistance of almost HUF 20 billion? Will that be enough, Secretary of State, this 20 billion forints? In my opinion, this is just the tip of the iceberg. Who's good with this KLIK, Secretary of State? Shouldn't we face the real problem and realize that the KLIK, the Institutional Maintenance Center, is a failure, not a solution, but a problem itself? Then what do you need it for? Thank you very much.
u2014-09-24-30	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2014-09-24-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, He referred to the last four years as if everything had been fine in the field of public education in Hungary before him. He forgets to mention facts such as the graduation scandal that took place during that period; it was not even possible to organize it during that period. He forgets to present the process of continuing school closures, the local schools have ceased in more and more small settlements; in the last four and a half years, we have stopped this process and even opened schools in the new system in a small settlement. And he forgot to mention such glorious projects as cocoa-proof computers before 2010, as well as the fact that they forgot to raise the wages of teachers for ten years before 1 September last year, because since 2002 there has been no increase in teachers' wages, since then on 1 September last year, 1 January this year, 1 September this year, and this will continue until 2017 with wage increases in September, and in January we will also adjust the increase in teachers' wages to increase the minimum wage. You also forgot to mention, Mr President, that during the period during which the MSZP and SZDSZ led education policy, everything that could be sold was sold, the National Book Publisher and all other companies or opportunities of financial value were privately owned and privatised, thereby destroying the provision of public textbooks that had been in operation for 150 years in Hungary. But if we look at what you predicted earlier, I think these predictions you just made in your interpellation will not come in the same way as your previous predictions. Exactly about the textbook market, you said earlier that we destroyed a well-functioning market while you privatized a well-functioning system for 150 years. You mentioned earlier that teachers weep. I think the teachers have been doing their job ever since. And his fellow Member said that the National Basic Learning Plan is unteachable and unteachable, that schools work compared to that, and that more and more students are studying in the running system. [[11.10]] Indeed, KLIK's task is on a huge scale, coordinating and managing the work of Hungary's largest employer, 2500 public education institutions, 1 million 200 thousand children attend these schools, and 6 thousand education sites. The establishment of the CLIK, as you know, was justified by reducing the differences between the skills of students in schools maintained by different, poorer and richer settlements, and by this additional resource - which I thought you were happy about and recognising how good it is that the government has provided resources for public education - is intended to reduce territorial differences; that the debts that have been incurred in the meantime, or payments resulting from additional tasks that have been incurred in the meantime, should be covered. You know that in the past it was not fully - we can see now - the reporting of the municipalities and not all the cost factors have been revealed, which is why additional resources had to be provided to KLIK. But KLIK is good at bringing up problems that have so far appeared in isolation in 6 thousand locations, in the maintenance of 3200 municipalities, and have not been solved for years or decades, and we can provide them with uniform regulation, uniform financial planning, uniform planning, coordination of maintenance and operation tasks at national level. This is how we were able to improve the permanent replacement system, to build specialized facilities; in many ways, the KLIK helped the government. I trust, sooner or later, you will see that the schools have been operating with public money before, only through various referrals. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] they got it from the municipality, and now they're in a single treatment. [[The president's ringing again.]] So schools, for all children, are designed to create a chance. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-32	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-09-24-33	They've written you a faint answer, Secretary of State. Let us be honest, there were at least as many errors in the historical overview as there were in the presentation of the present situation. It is not that you provided additional resources to the KLIK, but that the safe financing of the academic year has become doubtful and must provide immediate emergency assistance. Then ask yourself how this amount of HUF 19.7 billion, in quantity, in loss of purpose, in misuse, in planning a nasty budget, is in proportion to the amount of money for which you are conducting police actions against civil society organisations. And here you are apologizing for the unfortunate and incompetent society whose only merit is that the institution was named after a high-ranking minister named Klebelsberg. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] No one else, by the way. I don't accept the answer. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-24-34	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 42 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior: " If you have a house, then just pay? " with the title " On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, responds to the interpellation; on behalf of the Minister, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, on behalf of the Minister, responds. Mr Tamás Sneider has the floor.
u2014-09-24-35	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In the summer of 2009, the Bajnai government passed a law on property taxes in Hungary with many other restrictions. The introduction of property tax was then dictated by foreign bankers through the IMF for Hungary. Then Fidesz stood firm against its introduction, and the Constitutional Court annulled the law, so the foreign dictatorship died in the ashes. However, only three years have passed, and millions of citizens of Hungary have already noticed that taxes have to be paid on their homes and apartments. Three years later, Fidesz became the IMF of the municipalities. Due to the low level of normative subsidies and the required self-esteem, local authorities prefer to levy local property taxes under the terms of construction taxes or communal taxes. And where the communal tax has already hit the inhabitants, tax increases have taken place. For example, I quote an article from two years ago: " In Budapest, the Zugló people suck their teeth best: after a small studio 12 grand, after a small 40 square meter apartment 18 thousand, and after an 80 square meter property, they have to pay 25 thousand forints after XIV. district government imposed a communal tax. " Similar examples could be quoted by hundreds. Dear Secretary of State, In 2009, Fidesz spokesperson said: "The property tax is unprofessional and politically pointless. " In fact, Fidesz even withdrew László Mádi's parliamentary candidate, for which he said that they could levy a property tax in Hungary. In the light of all of this, I ask you whether it is acceptable for Hungary's citizens to pay taxes on their residential properties. Shouldn't the tax-paying citizens who live and live locally be exempt, and the local authorities should be replaced by a different, more reasonable and fairer source? Do you think it is acceptable for the Hungarian people who have already been taxed many times to receive another tax on their necks? Is it acceptable for large families, elderly people, to have to pay another thousand, tens of thousands after their apartment? I would like the Secretary of State's reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-24-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2014-09-24-37	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It seems that Jobbik is lacking in the municipal campaign, because the interpellation I just told you, I think, is uncredited to Jobbik. I'll tell you why. First of all, your example of Zugló in the interpellation, citing an article from two years ago, is a bad example, since Zugló had only a few months of this regulation and was abolished, so the citizens in Zugló do not pay for it, so its example, which is terrifying, is bad. But I can prove that your speech is not credible, and it is also true that we have only 15 settlements in the country where a good emotional mayor runs the settlement from 3177, so the party cannot have a real social responsibility for running the municipalities, but the local tax system, the communal tax that you criticize and the tax system per housing are essentially operating in all settlements. For example, Gyöngyöspatán has a communal tax, which the better-looking mayor raised to 12 thousand forints in 2012, but there is also a communal tax on individuals in Békésszentandrás and Monorierdő. The most special settlement is Tuzsér, where even the apartments have to be paid - right-hand settlement - the tax of 200 HUF per square metre, and here even the communal tax of private individuals has to be paid separately. But the situation in Tisavasvári is no different, there is a construction tax, a maximum business tax and a communal tax. So I think that your expectations and communication and, by the way, the thinking of the right-wing mayors leading the settlement are completely different, because they already have experience in what municipal farming means, what it means to prepare and balance the settlement's budget. Honourable Congressman, If we change the municipal system, then you say that local government democracy is being undermined, and now you want us to change this system with government power, because there is a municipal campaign, and you want to suggest to the voters that if they vote for Jobbik, there will be no tax to be paid here in Hungary, but no local tax. It's not like that at all. I believe that responsible thinking requires not only at government level, but also at municipal level, that a body of representatives, a mayor, knows what the load-bearing capacity of the local population is, knows what local goals, ideas are, and where resources can be obtained from. [[11.20]] The introduction of a local tax is only an option, no one is obliged. Thus there was no obligation to introduce Tuzséron, nor in Tiszavasvári, nor in the other right-wing settlements. Honourable Congressman, I ask you to acknowledge that the responsibility of municipal management is the responsibility of the municipality, and that decision-making is also the responsibility of the municipality, and that the government, the Parliament, cannot accept it from any municipality. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-38	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2014-09-24-39	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for clarifying the Fidesz position on property tax in Hungarian: Fidesz continues to support property tax in Hungary. You have tried to list some examples, such as a place where ten months ago there was a better mayor, or Tisavasvári, where the property tax was applied, just now, because the municipality could. What I was wondering was how Fidesz feels about setting up real estate taxes all over the country. I am very sorry that this is your response to this; five years ago, you said something completely different from what you just said in your government position. However, today we have submitted our bill in order to ensure that those who live in less than 150 square meters of real estate do not have to pay a property tax or a municipal or construction tax. Please consider that this would be fair for Hungary, because 7-10-15 thousand forints in small settlements and rural areas mean a great deal to an elderly person or a large family. Thank you so much for listening. I don't accept the answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-24-40	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 25 against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Wind and Róbert Sallai Benedek, representatives of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: " Tenfold support for multinationals against SMEs? " The title is given below. Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is competent and responsible according to the subject, responds to the interpellation on behalf of Prime Minister. Mr. Robert Benedek Sallai has the floor.
u2014-09-24-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, I will pick up where the Vice-President left off and draw attention to how different Fidesz says as an opposition than what he does as governor. The theme of my interpellation - as I have submitted in writing - is the aid for investment in Apollo Tyres, in which Fidesz launched a referendum in 2008 in order to prevent an extremely dangerous, unsolved, polluting investment in a local community. This failed because of Fidesz's initiative in 2008, and we are talking about the fact that Fidesz accounts for the achievement of this investment as a result. In 2011, the State Secretary for Foreign Economy of the Hungarian Government said that Fidesz would break up with the support of multinationals and maximize the support for one job in HUF 5 million, and that it would have to pay back in five years. In August 2004, the government decided to invest in Apollo Tyres with a new aid of 30 million per job. This will pay the total labour costs of the plant in advance for approximately 12 years. In fact, it is very, very difficult to see that it will be profitable for Hungarian society. Other large companies, including so-called government strategic partners, have received high support for job creation, while thousands of jobs have been removed and 81 percent of their profits have been taken out of the country. This was roughly the trend followed by previous governments to attract large investors and create jobs centrally with a number of thousands of jobs. In our view, this approach has failed in the last ten years, following the accession of the European Union, and it has been demonstrated that without small and medium-sized enterprises there is no job creation in Hungary. It is not a coincidence that 70 percent of employees in the competitive sector are employed in small and medium-sized enterprises, which is good not only because they achieve high employment efficiency, but also because they do not create a centralised job, but they live everywhere in the rural areas of Hungary and these individual businesses and small social enterprises appear. The National Employment Fund intends to create one job per HUF 1.5 million per HUF or HUF 1.8 million per beneficiary, with small and medium-sized enterprises, and compared to this, it is an extremely disproportionate and unfairly high support that the government intends to invest in these multi-enterprises. At the same time, we see that, although both the Prime Minister and the members of the government communicate far and wide throughout his words that he is coming to small and medium-sized enterprises on the Canaan, and that all the support will go in this direction, his symptoms are nowhere to be seen at the moment, and it is nowhere to be seen that this will happen. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2014-09-24-42	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Peter Szijjártó. You have the floor.
u2014-09-24-43	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for your interpellation. Allow me to tell you that in Hungary, investment promotion grants are not shaped as a split-off or as the government's convenience, but as a clear legal framework, which has been approved by the European Union. That is why we have a continuous reporting obligation for the European Commission to grant investment promotion aid. In addition, the eligible aid titles and regional aid intensities have been fixed in the Hungarian legal system. When we provide cash support based on individual government decision-making, which you were kind enough to talk about in relation to Apollo Tyres, we determine the amount of this cash support on the basis of two factors: both on the basis of the job creation effect and on the basis of expected tax revenues. And in this case, we must determine the amount of aid in such a way that it will be repaid as soon as possible from the point of view of public finances. I think it is important to mention, honourable Member, that when we give cash support based on individual government decisions to a company, the company enters into a contract with a maintenance period of five years, which means that in the five years from the date of signature of the contract, both the number of base and the number of employees that were present at the time must be maintained, as well as the number of newly created jobs. So we are not only in favour of creating new jobs, but also of protecting existing jobs. In particular, as far as the large Indian company Apollo Tyres referred to by you is concerned, they have undertaken to create 975 new jobs in Hungary. As a result of the cash support based on individual government decision, it comes out to HUF 16.5 million per job, which is added to the HUF 1 million per job paid by the Ministry of National Economy; this is HUF 17.5 million in total. You don't make mistakes when you say about HUF 30 million. It does not make mistakes because another pillar of the aid scheme is development tax relief. But we can only pay a development tax reduction to a company if it has started production, so that is not an option. So if Apollo starts production, it reaches its full capacity step by step, it will be able to enter into a contract point for development tax relief. Honourable Congressman, I would also like to point out to you that we are not, of course, giving this aid at the same time, in a single amount in advance, but, according to the schedule of the investment, the payments will be made in proportion to the work carried out and the invoices submitted. You referred to small and medium-sized enterprises. You are right, honourable Member, small and medium-sized enterprises are the spirit of the Hungarian national economy, so allow me to draw your attention to the fact that when we conclude a strategic cooperation agreement or give a large company cash support based on individual government decisions, these decisions are at least as much about small and medium-sized companies whose success is greatly influenced by their ability to enter into the supply chain of such a large international company. Think about it, honourable Member, Audi 100, Opel 24, Bosch 4800, Denso 850, Knorr-Bremse 580 offers the opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary to deliver, and for these small and medium-sized companies this means the possibility of permanent development. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, when we set regional aid intensities, an extra 10 percent and 20 percent increase in the intensity of small and medium-sized enterprises were added to the scheme, which means that small and medium-sized enterprises can also be preferred through this system. Please consider my answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[11.30]]
u2014-09-24-44	[[No sound.]] I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek. [[Intercoms: We can't hear you!]]
u2014-09-24-45	Dear Minister, Thank you very much for your answer, but please forgive me: this is not an acceptable answer. It is understandable what you are saying, but this suggests a wrong approach, because it gives large companies a market advantage that gives virtually a multitude of subsidies to production units that can work in themselves with greater production efficiency than small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. As long as these grants go to multinationals and a centralised job creation is achieved, it is not possible to create scattered jobs in the Hungarian countryside. I will accept such a response when it is announced that they will give the same amount of support to small and medium-sized enterprises with the same intensity and the same discount, but as long as we pay in advance 10-12 years of wages to the jobs created there and then we will add tax relief, we cannot accept that this would be an effective use of public funds. I ask you - I do not accept your answer - to consider such decisions. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-24-46	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Minister's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 110 votes in favour, 38 against and without abstention, the Parliament accepted the ministerial reply. Dear Parliament, János Bencsik, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development: "Does the government support the municipal ownership of the former mining hospital in Tatabánya so that we can restore it to the service of our community? " with the title " Mr János Bencsik has the floor.
u2014-09-24-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, " In 2010, the Hungarians decided to take back what was theirs and not let their most beautiful buildings become ruins, " Prime Minister said at the inauguration ceremony of the renovated Ludovika. This idea, which is important to all of us, encouraged me to ask for your assistance in the rescue of a building, perhaps on a smaller scale, but for the people of Tatabánya and our county, with a serious community message. Komárom-Esztergom county's headquarters, Tatabánya is a young town with a history of some 110 years. Even less survived the Second World War, the sinkings caused by mining, and the destruction of the communist regime. The people in our area are therefore very attached to the remaining architectural values; most of them are most strongly attached to the building of the former mining hospital. The majority of the county's inhabitants have been born in this hospital for generations. The institutional system of the county hospital moved to a new establishment in 1998, after the restructuring of the municipal system from the county municipality, the building became state-owned. The roof of the object, which had been empty for a decade and a half, became incomplete, and its technical condition gradually deteriorated. The transfer of the institution can only be ensured from the withdrawal of the medical wealth if the government supports it. That's why I'm coming to you to help preserve the building. We are not asking you for money, but for your help in enabling the mining hospital complex to become a government decision in urban property so that the city can do everything it can to turn it into a rental. So I ask the Minister whether the government supports the municipal ownership of the former mining hospital. Thank you very much. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2014-09-24-48	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary János Fónagy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-09-24-49	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government is committed to supporting local authorities. The operation of local authorities has been significantly facilitated by the debt consolidation implemented over the past period, in which we have stabilised the municipalities by taking over their loans. Additional means of support are the government's free transfer of state-owned assets to municipalities in order to carry out their statutory tasks. It shows the government's willingness to assist 407 municipalities in the last four years to acquire 721 state-owned real estate worth approximately HUF 53.5 billion. The mining-cohász hospital, mentioned by the Member, was owned by the state on the basis of the provisions of the Consolidation Act. The trustee of the state property is the Institute for Pharmacy and Health Quality and Organization Development, GYEMSZI in Hungarian, which has been exercising ownership rights over the transferred medical assets since May 1, 2012. St. Barbara Hospital moved out of the property in August 2011. At the consultations between GYEMSZI and the municipality, the parties confirmed that they were seeking to settle the fate of the property in the centre of the city. The property currently has two buildings in the use of the National Blood Service, where the only remaining health function is a blood station. In view of the local branch of the National Blood Service, GYEMSZI cannot propose the transfer of the entire property to municipal property. The representatives of the Institute agreed with the mayor and head architect of the city that the use of the property would be more likely to be shared. Accordingly, GYEMSZI has begun to carry out the tasks of dividing the area, and the change plan has been completed. By sharing land, two separate real estates are created with a separate location number, thus solving the problem of local government ownership. In agreement with the intention of the municipality, GYEMSZI will propose the sale of the land containing the main building into free municipal property after the construction of the plot. In the light of the newly created location figures, the representative body of the municipality will be able to initiate the sale of the specific property free of charge, indicating its claim at GYEMSZI and at the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. In closing the procedure for the free transfer of state assets, the government may take a decision in favour of the municipal concept, in order to save and exploit the main building with an important historic protection on the property for public purposes. In the hope of these objectives, I ask the Member to accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2014-09-24-50	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2014-09-24-51	Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Since my fellow Member, Józsa, has also been pleased with the reply of the Secretary of State, I could do nothing else, but I would like to state that the municipality's position on the division of land is in line with the government's intention. We understand that the blood station should also work, but we would like to use the main building itself and the property belonging to the main building as part of the " Tatabánya waiting for home " program that aims to keep young people in our community. As I said, we will be building a dormitory and apartments in the building, because thanks to the city's job creation activity two decades ago, reindustrialisation now requires thousands of skilled workers. Thank you very much. I respectfully accept the answer. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Thank you very much.]]
u2014-09-24-52	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: " Are the facts no longer relevant to you? " with the title " On behalf of the Prime Minister, Minister Miklós Seszták, who is competent and competent on behalf of Minister János Fónagy, responds to the interpellation. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2014-09-24-53	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Easing the burden on the population is a noble goal. Unfortunately, you've eased your own expenses most of the time. The upper tax rate was abolished, which takes hundreds of billions of HUF out of the budget each year. The tax credit was abolished, and tens of thousands were taken out of the pockets of working families. They nationalized and then spent HUF 3000 billion on private pension payments. [[11.40]] An average family pays 100,000 forints a year more into the state register, while saving up to 20-30 thousand forints a year by reducing the rent. The Orbán government has made a total cut of HUF 3000 billion in three years. These steps represent an extra 300,000 forints in four years for all Hungarians. If we say poverty is growing, then you say it's not true, because the rent is falling. As if this were a solution to everything, while the OECD, Eurostat, UNICEF, KSH and Tarki are constantly reporting a drastic increase in poverty in Hungary. In the NAV brochure published recently, there was a search engine who made HUF 250 million a month last year. That's 3 billion forints a year. Why does he have to get a reduction in his rent? Data from the NAV also show that there is an increase in the number of people earning around or below the minimum wage. The net amount of the minimum wage is not HUF 100,000, but HUF 66,000. Today, one and a half times as many consumers have late public utility debts as in 2009; more than one third of 1.8 million consumers have debt over 90 days. The total debt of the debtors is more than twice as large as in 2009, currently nearly HUF 100 billion. These were written two weeks ago by Miklós Seszták in his reply to a written question. According to one study, some 900 thousand homes are heated with wood, coal, or LPG, so a large proportion of people living in housing poverty do not even benefit from the reduction of their costs. Today, 170,000 children live in apartments where there is no toilet, 197 thousand children have no electricity in their homes, and 620 thousand live in moldy or soaked homes. We put a fair proposal on the table. We have proposed to introduce differentiated pricing on the basis of consumption volumes in electricity and gas supply for retail consumers. Thus, energy is much cheaper, up to 40-50 percent cheaper, for families with average or lower consumption. However, you were not interested in this proposal, as last week at the Economic Committee meeting it was not even worth discussing in this House. And the secretary of state who was present was not at the height of the situation, because he confused everything with everything. According to him, the problems we have raised in connection with the reduction of the rent will be solved by the reduction of the rent. Do you understand that? Our lane system may have been complicated for you, but it's still fairer. For this reason, I am asking why the government does not support our proposal for a fair reduction of the rent, where the aid would depend on consumption and income. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2014-09-24-54	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2014-09-24-55	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We both know there's a campaign, and I'm asking you to check the data where you mention numbers, because your data is not valid. The government's actions since 2010 have led to a steady increase in employment and an increase in real wages. Already in 2013, there was 540 billion HUF more money left in the workers' pockets. The number of minimum wage earners increased thanks to public employment. At the moment, these people are not getting aid, they're getting higher wages. The reduction of the rent is a complex set of measures with a social impact aimed at reducing the public's costs to an acceptable level. This was justified by the fact that, during the MSZP governments, Hungarian families' overhead costs were extremely high both in the region and on the average of the European Union. Therefore, the government has decided to reduce the retail consumer prices of electricity, gas, district heating and other public services in a uniform manner, in several stages without band boundaries. Your proposal would make accounting unnecessarily complicated, opaque and difficult to control for consumers, and it would mean building a new parallel social care system. It is appropriate to support socially dependent consumers not through general energy price regulation, but through an individual social benefit scheme. In addition to the overhead costs, the housing allowance also leads to rent or rent, the repayment of the housing loan, the common cost and the cost of solid fuel. At present, 345 thousand households receive this type of support, i.e. 345 thousand households. The average monthly amount of the aid for households living in the most disadvantaged situation may exceed HUF 10 000, thus providing an enormous amount of help compared to the reduction of the rent. In addition to housing support, the government provides assistance through debt management services to families with already accumulated backlogs. As a result of the reduction in costs, the amount of savings is indeed dependent on the level of consumption, but there is no necessarily a close link between the financial situation of consumers and the level of consumption. Low consumption may also mean that the user consumes little with modern devices. Those who consume more are likely to be forced to do so because of their poorly insulated, old - equipmented apartment. Often, several generations live together in a household, which is why more energy is used, but a family with multiple children also consumes more water and heats up more rooms for the night. The transformation of the price regulation of natural gas in December 2010 already resulted in an annual savings of nearly HUF 100,000 for an average consumer before the reduction in the costs. Over the past year, the annual savings of an average consumer resulting from a reduction in the costs of electricity, gas, district heating, water, sewerage, waste transport, chimney sweep and LPG are higher than HUF 100,000. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. Please accept my answer. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-09-24-56	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-09-24-57	I can't accept your answer. I would like to draw your attention to some more details, Mr. Secretary. Today, 74 percent of Hungarian families cannot finance an unexpected edition. This unexpected edition is about 50,000 forints. Today, families, which owe a utility fee of some kind, owe on average more than 60,000 forints. It's over 50,000 forints. At the committee meeting, Dr. András Aradszki, State Secretary, told me that the problems I have told you have been adequately addressed by the social system. Then how can it happen, Mr Secretary of State, that in the first seven months of 2014 social and family support has been paid 10.5 percent less than in 2013? I think these numbers are talkative, and I can't accept your answer. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-24-58	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes in favour, 33 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister: " Who is in the interest of guarding the elections in Hungary from the Middle East? " The title is given below. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister for the Interior, who is competent and competent on the subject, responds to the interpellation by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor.
u2014-09-24-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Recently, I was shocked to learn that the servers needed to conduct the close elections are operating in a lease owned by a Hungarian subsidiary of a company with an unknown ownership listed in Amsterdam. Given the obvious risk of national security in this case, I asked in writing the competent ministers of the government for information on the matter. However, Mr Sándor Pintér's deep silence did not remove my concerns, but confirms my suspicions that you, too, clearly see and feel that the doubts about the purity of the elections and, therefore, the elections before us are not unfounded at all. If that were not the case, why has the Minister not answered any of the questions I have made? [[11.50]] All we know for sure is that XIII. district 2-10 Battle Street, the property used to accommodate the servers is rented by a company whose managing director is an Israeli private individual, Spingold Tiberiu. My question about who owns the parent company in Amsterdam, Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, did not give any answers, although the Fundamental Law, the National Property Act, the Public Finance Act, requires transparency without exception. It seems that the Minister of the Interior is above all of them, and let's face it, this is not an issue at all. I think that, like me, voters are interested, for example, in the current municipal elections, in who their votes are, how and under what circumstances they aggregate, are sufficiently clear and transparent about the processes leading to the final result. Let us admit that it is not reassuring at all that this priority, the most important task of enforcing the electoral will, is carried out instead of so many publicly owned properties at an establishment under the control of an Israeli citizen. So I ask the Honourable Secretary of State who or who Cap East Kft is. the owners of its parent company, i.e. those who disposal over the premises of the electoral servers. What are the reasons and reasons why Hungary's security, sovereignty, territorial integrity, important public, political, economic and other interests and, therefore, are not or will be operated in public property of strategic importance from a national security point of view? Do you consider it highly risky from a national security point of view that the assets in question were placed in the building of a company controlled by a foreign manager? And I don't even ask why it is good for the Hungarian State to rent this property for 320 million HUF for five years, when it would be possible to place these servers in another property owned by the State. I'm looking forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-24-60	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the interpellation. I give you the floor.
u2014-09-24-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, let me say that we answered all your written questions and sent them to you on 17 September 2014. The reply sent can also be viewed on Parliament's side, so it does not correspond to the reality that the Minister of the Interior has listened deeply and has not given any answers to your questions. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you once again that according to the rules governing the placement of the electoral system operator and the servers supplying it, the Central Office for Administrative and Electronic Public Services provides the infrastructure background and access to the IT system's operating environment. Honourable Congressman, I stress that the electoral servers were placed in a building owned by the Hungarian state - i.e. once again in the building owned by the Hungarian state - in the high-security machinery room of the KEKKH, which is not located on Battle Street. I assure you that strict rules on information security have been fully respected in the storage of servers. Honourable Congressman, The information provided in your interpellation does not correspond to reality - all your questions have been answered exhaustively and accurately. I said that the servers are located in the building owned by the Hungarian State, in full compliance with all aspects of the statutory security conditions, so the full clarity and security of the elections on 12 October is ensured in this respect. In view of this, I ask you to accept my answer. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-62	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2014-09-24-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, You say that you have answered the written question. Then please go up to the website and see what answers we've received. In the answer that Sándor Pintér wrote to my written question, there was nothing concrete. He didn't say where the servers were with half a sentence, and he didn't say how safe you thought the election was going to be. So what you said didn't cover the reality, because you didn't give an answer; you didn't answer any of the Members of Parliament's questions. They keep doing this, they keep fuzzing, they keep trying to create a situation that doesn't even give Members the most basic information. That's why I can't accept your answer. I still feel that it was not comforting to me what you said, because I do not know who to believe now: you, or Sándor Pintér, that you answered the written question - one must decide who was telling the truth. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-24-64	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Member did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 98 votes in favour, 18 against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: " How does the state help improve the demographic situation in Hungary? " with the title " Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor.
u2014-09-24-65	Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, When talking about the government's population policy, the importance of changing the current demographic indicators and the role of the family always comes to mind. A significant part of our country's problems stem from the declining population and the depreciation of the family as a concept, even though families are the national reserve units that raise young people, help their jobs, support parents, and provide peace and peace for older generations. Family is the place where children have the right set of values, mastering the values that will help them to prepare for their future lives. Family is the primary stage of socialisation, social integration, where there is a distinction between right and wrong, right and wrong. In societies where the family needs periphery, where individual interests become more important than community interests, the role of the family is taken over by the state, and the security and protection provided by the family are sought by the state. This was something that we could live through during the communist dictatorship, when the goal was to cripple small communities and to disintegrate families. After the change of regime, there were also governments that were in line with the maintenance and artificial strengthening of socialism. This was, on the one hand, a serious and often difficult burden for the country and, on the other hand, it forced people out of family ties. This is why, among other things, the strengthening of families and the protection of this ancient value have become so important today. On the part of the government, the new Fundamental Law in force from 2012 was a symbolic public-law confirmation of the importance of the family, which sets out the protection and greater financial support of the family and childbearing, as well as the fact that marriage can only exist between a man and a woman. According to traditional values, the concept of family is applied by the Fundamental Law to the coexistence of spouses and parents and their children. Also from 2012, the basic family law sets out the benefits and benefits that can be granted to families, which ensure stability and predictability. These symbolic and strong steps have laid the foundations for a new value-keeping family policy. With all due respect, Madam Secretary, how the government is helping to improve the demographic situation [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] what additional measures the government intends to take to strengthen families, whether new help is expected for the future [[The president's ringing again.]] for families with children? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-66	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor. [[12.00]]
u2014-09-24-67	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for this, because you have highlighted a very important area, demographics and the situation of families. We can say that one of the most serious challenges of our society is that we can improve the current demographic situation and strengthen our families. The Ministry of State for Family and Youth was also set up so that we could pay more attention to this area than ever before. In 2010, perhaps in the twenty-fourth hour, the newly created second Orbán government paid particular attention to demography, and then implemented a family-friendly turnaround to reverse the policy of the previous eight years, which did not take into account at all the fact that we were living in a period between 2002 and 2010 when the Ratkó grandchildren were just the ideal age to have children, yet the governments of that time did nothing to reverse the population processes. We recognized this, and in 2010, with a family-friendly turn, we did a great deal for families. Exactly what measures were we talking about? On the one hand, we have confirmed, as Mr President said, that, both in legislation and in the Fundamental Law and in the Family Laws, we have laid down the various benefits for families at legal level. We extended the family tax reduction, increased the amount, and took further positive steps with regard to family tax relief at the beginning of this year. The third year child taken by the left was restored as one of the first measures, so that three-year-old children are again entitled to children's children. The amount of the childcare fee was increased by almost 40 percent, and recognizing that working parents also need to provide day care for children, between 2010 and 2014 we will create 6 thousand new cradle seats with HUF 28 billion. We also made it easier for parents with small children to work, because we realized that it was not enough to talk about the fact that if a mother wanted to go to work, it had to be created, but it had to be done, so we facilitated employers' employment of mothers with small children with an action programme, and we facilitated their decision by taking measures called child extras. This means that if mothers return to the labour market in addition to raising young children, they will still receive the benefits they deserve, and we have abolished the completely unfair system that if a mother gives birth to more children in a rapid succession, she will certainly not receive the benefits she deserves for every child. We've changed that, too. What will we do in the future? I can promise both to the Member and to the Members of the Parliament that we will continue on this path, and what is most important is that we will give the families security that we will not take anything away from them, that they can keep what they have received. Thank you very much, if even opposition parties will support us in this. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-68	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-09-24-69	Dear Secretary of State, I was delighted with your response, which seems that family is the fundamental unity of our nation, and that families can flourish again. We welcome the positive development of support for families, as well as the positive development of the number of marriages, the number of child births in recent years, and the decline in divorces. All this clearly shows that the government is on the right track. Thank you for your support on behalf of the families. Of course, I accept your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-70	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, It's 12:04. We're moving on to the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question: " Whose money is it? " The title is given below. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Ádám Balog to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask the President for an answer.
u2014-09-24-71	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr President, but I would like to hear the answer personally from the President of the National Bank, so I will wait for the opportunity to do so. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-24-72	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr President will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Gábor Harangozó, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question entitled "Slump of the Earth in Siófok. " Congressman Gábor Bellozó has the floor. [[Dr. Gábor Harangozó István is not in the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, The Member is not in the Chamber, so he cannot ask his immediate question. Dear Parliament, Representative of President Novak, Jobbik's representative, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: " Why is there another III/II person in his government after János Martonyi? " with the title " The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is asking the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2014-09-24-73	Thank you, Mr. President. Even if Mr. János Lázár had been appointed by the Prime Minister, I think there would have been something to talk about here since Gustáv Zoltai was appointed, but I would thus give Prime Minister the opportunity to explain himself personally. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-24-74	Thank you, Congressman. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: " When will you finally take responsibility for your omissions? " with the title " Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. István Nagy State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman, you accept the identity of the responder. You have the floor.
u2014-09-24-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'm sorry that Minister ran away from answering the question, and you're the one who's been slammed here, but let's get to the point. It could be foreseen that the fruit sector, especially the apple sector, was facing a serious crisis this year, that the crop would be much larger than in the previous years, and that it could also be expected that the situation in Russia and Ukraine would have a negative impact on sales opportunities. Tell me with great respect how to keep a farmer who can sell his HUF 20-25 per kilo for 10 forints. How can a producer who can sell the edible apple produced at 40-50 HUF/kilogram prices for a very good price for 20 HUF, but there is a likelihood that both the apple and the apple will not receive a single forint, the producers will sell it on guarantee, "then the buyers will pay all for it " once. Who will assume the responsibility for requesting an extension of HUF 72 billion of support for 13 000 farmers between September 2014 and September 2015 you have generously renounced without asking farmers, but most importantly - which is now the most outstanding of my questions and I ask for a separate answer - who will take responsibility for the fact that you have forgotten the part of EUR 125 million in withdrawal support in Hungary and failed to claim it? Countries with suitable agricultural management, such as the French, the Poles and the Italians, had exhausted the register by then, to which the Hungarian agricultural management would have made any move or reaction, thus Hungarian producers lost at least HUF 3-4 billion. Where is Magos now, where is the Chamber of Agriculture now? In 2009, at a price below HUF 30, the farmers were talking about spitting in the face and treason, and now everyone is listening at HUF 10. It seems Magos only protests when Fidesz is in opposition. Tell me how the apple producers can survive, how the fruit sector can survive, especially the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, affected by at least 50%, this unprecedented crisis! I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-24-76	I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy. [[12.10]]
u2014-09-24-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian government and the agricultural portfolio also have a special responsibility for the apple producers, and they have a special responsibility for the apple situation. It's well known that this year's apple crop is 40 percent higher than before. Therefore, the government decided to provide HUF 3 billion in aid to the apple producers of HUF 160 million. There is currently a discussion between producers, interbranch organisations and the Ministry on how we can use this form of support to solve the apple crisis. The way in which we can pay this aid is discussed. I would like to remind you that the last time there was an apple crisis, the other government was able to provide a billion-dollar grant, and the current government wants to help apple processors with three-fold support. I would like to reject your accusation that the Hungarian Government has missed the EU's support methods. What is the truth? The truth is that when the decree came out, a total of 226 producers of Hungarian apple producers filed applications, while Polish farmers as a whole, all producers submitted their claims. By doing so, the European Union has found that the form of support, the way in which imports are lost, i.e. the Russian embargo, is not a good way to deal with the case. And I would like to separate you from the fact that it is not possible to confuse the EU support system resulting from the damage caused by the embargo and the 3 billion-dollar framework of the Hungarian State, in particular the wallet. There's a huge difference between the two. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Moreover, farmers have not suffered any losses because the EU framework is re-launching and re-regulating due to the dishonesty of Polish farmers. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-24-78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. You have the floor.
u2014-09-24-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think that it is not the Polish farmers who should be responsible, but the Hungarian agricultural management. On the other hand, Mr. Secretary, you're unprepared and uninformed, and you don't even listen to the radio. On September 16th, on the morning show of Kossuth Radio, your minister, your boss, admitted that we should have requested this support. And don't mislead the producers and the public. The 3.1 billion forints you're talking about are completely different items, completely different options, nothing to do with the application for withdrawal or non-cleaning aid. We've already lost our share of EUR 125 million anyway, and no one's going to pay us for it. The vast majority of the 3.1 billion forints, Mr. Secretary of State, do you know who you're going to travel to? To the labs, the billionaires and the labs. By the way, the president of the Chamber of Agriculture has already informally told certain producer circles about this in internal discussions. Looks like this information will get to us sooner than it will to you. One more step needs to be taken by your minister and everyone responsible for this: to resign. We not only ask for this, but we demand it on behalf of Hungarian producers: if necessary, with their private assets to answer for this sinful omission. In any case, I wish you no malice. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So that you can live this year with as much money as the apple farmers can make a profit. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-24-80	Congressman, you're out of time. Mr. István Nagy State Secretary is entitled to a rejoinder within a one-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-09-24-81	Thank you very much. I would like to say, Congressman, that you are the one who has shown ignorance. After all, the question for us is how to introduce apple concentrate into school food. How to create a regulation that increases the concentration of fruit in fruit juice. This is what the wallet is working on, so that we are not able to propose casual, ad hoc solutions for farmers' crops, but rather to develop comprehensive solutions that affect each year and in the long term. And by raising the fruit concentrate in fruit juices and introducing 100 percent juice in school food, we can provide an opportunity that has a public health impact, which has a much wider impact than just simple apple support itself. This is why the wallet is very diverse, very wide-ranging, precisely so that everyone can find a definitive solution to this issue, because it is the only way to find a reassuring solution in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-24-82	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister immediately: " What about these grants? " with the title " Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor.
u2014-09-24-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, In 2013, when the unauthorized use of a number of grants was discovered and the fact that a number of supported offshore companies were supported, you promised to make an announcement to the press that you would take action to withdraw such subsidies. You did this as a senior civil servant responsible for the supervision of the National Development Agency, and it was said that practically from Bólyi Agricultural Zrt., belonging to Sándor Csányi's interest, it would be necessary to recover HUF 22 million, but there are also virtually 700 companies in which you took the initiative to recover approximately HUF 50 billion. In practice, in recent times, not only a playground case, not only the area-aid case last year, but also a number of cases on which the government would have to recover unauthorized subsidies at all costs. There is very little information available on the effectiveness of these claims to the public. So the announcements are always there, but we don't really hear how much money has come back, how much money has been raised, how much has been demanded back effectively, how offshore companies are filtered out of the following grants. I would like to hear about it, or I would be comforted if I saw that all these companies no longer have access to these grants and could not benefit from public funds. I ask you, Minister, to give me a brief update on the withdrawn subsidies. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2014-09-24-84	I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2014-09-24-85	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that my fellow Member gave me an address from which I could hardly conclude on the specific content, it would have been a serious feat, so I prepared a number of things in response. Of course, I would be happy to discuss the possibility of bidding for offshore or offshore businesses. Before I do this, I would like to inform my fellow Member, as it concerns your faction, that several of my fellow Members have recently asked that specific investigations be carried out on certain matters. Such was the Öveges programme and my fellow Member, Erzsébet Schmuck, asked that the government examine this carefully, as there was a suspicion of concentration and fraud. This investigation, based on the feedback received from me, is currently conducted with a Draco rigour by the Prime Minister's Audit Department. More than that, my colleague Sándor Szabó made a statement about the investment in the playground in Szeged and a request to the government. This investigation is also underway. Both will be closed at the end of September, on which I will inform the Parliament. So in every case that I have promised to launch the investigation, the process goes on. As far as offshore companies are concerned, 44 thousand Hungarian companies won the EU tender scheme between 2007 and 2013. They've been screened. Indeed, we have screened candidates, against whom the offshore suspect was raised. In this case, the wallet, the wallet responsible for the money, must carry out an irregularity procedure. The irregularities proceedings are ongoing. The final penalty for these can be twofold. One of the sanctions is repayment, and there is also a legal possibility that these undertakings, which have committed this, will be banned from the system for the next seven-year cycle. There is therefore a procedure for irregularities in these matters. For the record, there is a big debate within the government on the situation of offshore companies prior to the entry into force of the Fundamental Law. The Prime Minister's Office takes the view that the requirements of transparency must also be met by them. Not everyone shares that. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-24-86	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2014-09-24-87	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. I also asked this question, or it was interesting for me because, by accident, here in the municipal campaign, it came to my attention that the Prime Minister had recently initiated something at a canned factory in Kecskemét, which, I understand, received Norwegian subsidies. This is also interesting because we do not know that Norwegian money is, after all, Hungarian public money or non-Hungarian public money. At the same time, we can see that a company that owns a company with a home background in Belize has received support. So, to this day, it will be possible for offshore companies of this kind to receive support. If you were to comment on your rejoinder, my specific question was whether there was already a financial impact on the budget from these aid repayments. So what you announced a year ago is from the $50 billion recovery that's successful, or is everything still going on and on? Thank you very much.
u2014-09-24-88	Thank you. Minister János Lázár is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2014-09-24-89	In view of the fact that we are talking about EU funds included in the Hungarian budget, the rules of procedure of the European Union should be applied, which will also provide legal remedies for those affected. It will take at least a year for us to recover any money; and we cannot reclaim it, but Hungary through the European Commission. [[12.20]] I would like to make the point here that the European Anti-Fraud Office is conducting several investigations in Hungary. Among other things, a number of local governments, small municipalities, in 2008 and 2009 were involved in significant fraud in the use of rural development funds, playground building, kindergarten building. OLAF's decision to refund these funds has already arrived, but here we have faced the fact that the mayors concerned have long been out of office and that HUF 1.3 billion should be repaid to the European Commission's cash register. This would mean the immediate failure of about 60 settlements. I only mentioned this because there is a contradiction between social perception and the situation itself, that if there is fraud and we demand the money back, what the consequences are. Small self-governments are now under threat of bankruptcy if the OLAF resolution is to be implemented by the government. That's the answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-90	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Katalin Csöbör, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: " Can Miskolc, the city of coal and steel, be a city of cultural festivals? " The title is given below. Minister Péter Hoppál has appointed Mr Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Mrs. Congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Minister herself for an answer.
u2014-09-24-91	Of course I'll take it.
u2014-09-24-92	Thank you. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-09-24-93	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Miskolc was originally a small-town area that serves as a cultural and functional centre of a million-dollar agglomeration. The social problems in the region are well known and employment has deteriorated with the end of the traditional heavy industry. Social inequality in the region is a major obstacle to inclusion in cultural life. Nearly a third of the people living here are poor, low-educated and struggling to make a living every day, so it is also important to bridge differences with cultural means. The city is a large city designed for a no longer existing economic fund, which in the coming years should also be given a new cultural image in order to be able to play its central role as fully as possible in the region. In order for this to happen, we need to implement programmes, make it a tradition in the city that attract the people living here and the region. And if we are able to come up with events that have a higher interest in their content and quality, it can also have a positive impact on the city's life from a tourist point of view. Culture therefore has an important role to play in the development and future of the city, as maintaining traditions and achieving new results will help to strengthen the community framework of self-esteem, and we must consider it a goal to contribute to reducing cultural differences. At the time Miskolc launched the " Capital of Culture of Europe " competition, on which András Bozóki, then Minister of Culture, said that not only the winner Pécs, but the cities that started in the competition will be winners. The Socialist Government didn't keep that promise either. I ask Mr Secretary of State now what the current cultural government is doing to ensure that Miskolc's cultural catch-up to the capital and the Danube region [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It should happen as soon as possible. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-94	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Peter Hoppál.
u2014-09-24-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The cultural and spiritual life of Miskolc is booming, and we can see and experience this well, especially in the past four years. This trend is supported by actions by the civilian government instead of promises. Allow me to flash some of these objects. The very successful CineFest International Film Festival in Miskolc ended recently, and I experienced the success of it myself, when, at the invitation of Mayor Ákos Kriza, I participated in the opening of the festival and saw a rich, vibrant cultural life taking place in Miskolc. A lot of foreign cultural tourists came to this festival, and I would remind Congresswoman that we were able to finance two thirds of this festival from government and state resources, since the National Film Fund, the cultural portfolio and the NKA ministerial framework helped this cultural festival by HUF 60 million. In addition, since the time of the first Orbán government, the Bartók Plus Opera Festival has been held since 2001, which is actually one of the most impressive festivals in Europe and Hungary, and this will take place not in the capital, but in the countryside, in Miskolc. This festival is supported by NKA's three-year funding. We also participate in the festival from the government side. In addition, I could list the support of the Herman Ottó Museum and the Miskolc Gallery Municipal Art Museum in the framework of HUF 180 million and the second. Ferenc Rákóczi Library is also supported by a central budget of almost HUF 200 million. I think that the cultural government is performing better not only at the level of festivals, but also at the level of public and cultural organisations and institutions. I trust that in the coming years the cultural image of Miskolc will continue to grow, and the government will support you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-96	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to Congresswoman Csöbör in return.
u2014-09-24-97	Thank you for the floor and thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Indeed, we have a number of events that could not be carried out only from urban sources, and therefore we need government support. We also have a number of plans in the future - see Avas Carnival and Avas Festival or AvasFest - that we would like to continue to implement in the future. So it is reassuring to me that, in the future and in the coming years, the government will continue to support Miskolc's noble goals and see Miskolc's noble goals as the government's own. So, of course, I accept the Secretary of State's reply and thank you for that. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-98	Thank you, Congresswoman. Mr. Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2014-09-24-99	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Obviously, the disadvantages arising from the steel urbanisation need to be overcome, and it is also apparent that the Miskolc city leadership is doing a very important job in order to get Miskolc on the cultural map of Europe. In this work, once again, the government can count on you, but it is very important that you also carry out local-related tasks, so we can be successful together. In addition to Budapest, Hungary can have a number of cultural centres, and regional centres are specifically such places, where strengthening cultural activity can also contribute to economic recovery. We hope that culture does not create and preserve and transfer values for itself, but contributes to the strengthening of the local economy through the development of the cultural industry. In this, once again, you can continue to count on the government's support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-100	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gábor Harangozó, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question entitled "Slump of the Earth in Siófok. " Congressman Gábor Bellozó has the floor.
u2014-09-24-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, According to Mihály Witzmann's candidate and Árpád Balázs, mayor of Siófok, the Internet News Portal, released in April 2014, talks about the fact that the hospital investment in Siófok has been in place for'two years because the construction company linked to the regional leader of Fidesz, Erik Bánki, was interested in getting the job, because the money is being paid without work. They also talk about a public procurement, where they also won their "Erik's company " business, even though they made twice as expensive a bid as their competitor. Mihály Witzmann also said on the recordings that the Prime Minister's Office will be consulted. I have quoted to you questions as to whether or not this investigation has been investigated, whether such a discussion has taken place at the Prime Minister's Office and, if so, with whom and what. Árpád Balázs, behind the case, suspects a solid interest. What interests do you refer to, which interests may be stronger than the state's will to provide well-functioning health care to Hungarian people? How many million forints did they pay for the investment? Is there any link between the events that the European Union is examining the system of tender and payment of development resources to Hungary and the suspicious cases that involve Fidesz politicians in the distribution and payment of development money? Mr. Secretary. In your reply, you informed me that you sent my question to Attorney General Péter Polt, which is, of course, correct, because the case is highly suspected indeed. But, Minister, you're not seriously suggesting that your answer is so exhausted that there hasn't been an investigation into such a case in your wallet, how it might have happened. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Was there a meeting at the Ministry? [[The president's ringing again.]] How long are you going to put up with this shit in Siófok? [[12.30]]
u2014-09-24-102	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2014-09-24-103	Thank you very much for your repeated question. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House of Representatives, First of all, my answer was narrow, which I gave to your written question, since I informed you that I would inform the Attorney General; and here I note that if there is a serious suspicion of a crime, then it is also your duty to report this matter as a Member of Parliament, if there is serious suspicion of a criminal offence. If you do not file a complaint or if you do not suspect a criminal offence, it is indeed right that you come to me and ask me about it, because it is about using EU money. It would be even more appropriate to clarify personally with our fellow Member Erik Bánki and our fellow Member Witzmann - I would like to introduce you to each other - whether any nonsense or nonsense has taken place. So if it's not a crime, it's worth talking to the people involved and discussing what they're doing. At the same time, I would like to underline that there are a number of problematic investments in Hungary financed by the European Union. There are investments like this in Siófok. By saving these investments, so that these investments can be completed by 31 December 2015... - and they are prominent in this, i.e. high-risk, difficult, slow-moving, problematic investments include hospital investments in Hungary. The Prime Minister's Office and the organisations coordinating development funds have a serious problem with how we can complete all ongoing hospital developments, which I believe are in line with the political interests and social agenda of all Members of Parliament, by 31 December 2015. In the spirit of this, of course, my office is also open to pro-government and opposition mayors, as they are partly projects and programmes taken from local governments. I don't know if there's been any abuse here. I'd be happy to order any kind of investigation, which I've done in the meantime, but if there are serious suspicions of a crime, you'll have to file a criminal complaint. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-104	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Congressman, you have the right to a rejoinder.
u2014-09-24-105	Thank you. Minister, on another tape, the mayor of Siófok informs the candidate of the Fidesz that he has discussed with the head of the public jet that, after winning the som tender, the public jet will join the campaign, as he did before, and then they will discuss that this money will launch a good smear campaign against me at the end of October. [[János Lázár: Against you?]] Not the truly outrageous thing is that they want to launch an embarrassing campaign, but that in October the flyers really go out, the tender will be launched in December, and then the Public Machine will win in March. Minister, leading Fidesz politicians are all over the country, and they're always trying to convince people to vote for Fidesz mayors, because then they're gonna win a lot of money on development. After all, I think we need Fidesz mayors so that we can run this kind of money pump in an undisturbed fashion. Obviously, a opposition mayor won't assist. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] for systemic stretches similar to this one. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-09-24-106	Thank you. Minister János Lázár is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2014-09-24-107	Thank you very much for asking. I can only suggest that Árpád Balázs should also contact my esteemed and respected mayor colleague, our fellow Member Witzmann and our fellow Member Erik Bánki, in order to clarify the situation. For my part, I personally support your political work, so don't assume that I have conspired with those involved. On the other hand, I find it difficult to answer your question about the Public Machine, since I am neither the owner nor the leader of the Public Machine. One thing I can say is that for every investment that has slowed down, and this investment package is part of this circle, we will examine all the circumstances. And, of course, we will not give in to the pressure that, given the time-honoring need to complete the investment, we will be unrealistically, in a surreal way, raising costs, and anyone will start looting the European Union cash register or the budget on this basis. So I can guarantee you that I will inform you in detail about the investigation in Siófok, and in your political struggles, I sympathize with you. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2014-09-24-108	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Karpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: " How much longer? " The title is given below. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-09-24-109	Mr President, Dear House, Many times, we talk about solving the situation of the bank victims, the government has provided this as a rake pasta for more than four and a half years, because it was waiting for the first time for Kúria, then for the Constitutional Court, for the European Court of Justice, again for Kúria. Now we are talking about the fact that the HUFing of loans at the rate of admission, so instead of a unique solution, they will only promise a full settlement of the problem by 2016. However, it must also be seen that there have already been huge problems in this preparatory phase, as the last meeting of the Legislative Committee has been scandalized in the fact that, despite a 20-minute special call for time, your representatives have not been able to read what they are voting on, which they have voted on, and on which this House will vote. So you have resigned a blank cheque, a proposal that, although acceptable as a partial solution, has been left out of it by complete social groups, for example, the full range of state-supported forint borrowers, who will not be refunded. So they kicked a huge one into the civil servants. But to highlight just one moment, on which I would be interested in your personal opinion: how can any order be imagined in such a way that all the enforcement clauses issued by notaries as authentic documents can be considered false, or at least based on incorrect calculations? After all, the illegal calculations that financial institutions have shared with them have clearly proven to be weak, and the question arises that if they submit a package for such accountability, which only says that a virtual debt is a little bit described to the client, so the stolen stereo is returned to the shop by the thief and he can safely be released, who did they agree with? Who are the civil society organisations you sat down with? Who are the lawyers, lawyers, who may have given advice to the victims, or who are the bank union leaders, bank and financial institutions officials who have written all of this to you? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-24-110	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-09-24-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, From the title of your question, how long, obviously, it was difficult for me to find out what you will think, what specific question you will raise. But looking at your speeches so far, it has not been difficult to realize that you are bringing the problem of foreign exchange credentials back to the House, which I thank you for, because I can tell you how serious the government can deliver, even if you consider it a slow process. After all, the time when virtually all the problems of foreign exchange credit and non- foreign currency credit will be resolved has come to a tangible close. I mean, you know it's in front of Parliament, and we're voting today on the accountability bill. By the way, with regard to its specific question, it could obviously raise or raise the question of this particular clause as a possible amendment to this law. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a very serious social problem, which has many links to its solution, obviously legal, economic, affecting the banking sector, affecting millions of people, and the state is also involved in this. And a solution had to be found, even if this did not seem to be quick, which, on the one hand, does indeed end these transactions legally, and so that everyone involved could be involved in this and that a step by step solution could be found where, in a legal sense, even if he could lead the matter to an appeal, he could still have a final answer, and that would be the next step. You are obviously aware of these steps, since you are monitoring the work of the Parliament. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I'm asking you to understand, and I'm sure we'll get to the bottom of this someday. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-112	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2014-09-24-113	Dear Secretary of State, Despite the lack of iron applause, I congratulate you for presenting the high school of bullshit. [[János Lázár: Well, he's a politician.]] How can you not respond to a single suggestion in two minutes? The genre of the immediate question would require a little different, but account for it with your own conscience. [[Lázár János To András Tállai: Count!]] We must say that the ultimate goal may not be to legally end these transactions, but to recover the stolen goods. [[János Lázár: From the loan sharks.]] To regroup for the owners. You are not able to do this partially, because without HUFing at the rate of admission, part of the stolen property remains with the banks, for whom your bill even overlooks that if someone has lost their home on the basis of these false authentic documents, it cannot in essence expect any recovery. [[12.40]] But he didn't even answer who they were negotiating with. I'm gonna tell you guys, with no one outside of a civil society organization. For this reason Jobbik will reconvene the Foreign Currency Loan Round Table, where there is room for all civil society organisations who dealt with the issue, all the advocates of the victims, even all the parties, the Secretary of State, the Ministry and representatives of the government. We ask you to pay your respects for the first time in two years and to look into the eyes of those against whom you would be accountable. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-24-114	Thank you. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-09-24-115	So let's go back to the original question, " For how long?"to, okay? So there's nothing in this matter, obviously that was his purpose. What I can tell you is that you won't be standing up here in Parliament for long and you're not gonna talk about when the government will solve the problem of foreign exchange credentials. You've lived well politically, and what's obviously bothering you now is that you see the end of it, that it's time to end, and this political product will have to be taken off by Jobbik personally, and we'll have to figure something else out, of course. I do have the article "How Long? " I can give you a concrete answer to your question, but Parliament can also give a concrete answer to those millions of affected customers. And to wash the banking sector together with the government, which will now reach into your pocket for a thousand billion forints to settle this and call you a friend of the government, and that's a good-looking ridiculous smack. I can't do this... Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-116	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, László Földi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question entitled "Employment at Record Level." The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2014-09-24-117	Yeah.
u2014-09-24-118	It is for Congressman László Földi to take the floor.
u2014-09-24-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, According to KSH's quick information published at the end of August, over a year - the average of three months in May and July 2014 - 164 thousand more people aged 15-74 and 4 million 127 thousand worked in Hungary, corresponding to a 22-year record. Meanwhile, the unemployment rate has fallen below 8 per cent compared to the same period of the previous year, which is the most favourable figure since the end of 2008. During the same period, we can see an increase of some 3.3 percentage points for those aged between 15 and 24. Women's employment has also reached another peak, with 1 million 880,000 working, 82 thousand more than a year earlier. According to Eurostat data published, employment is growing in 18 countries compared to the same period last year and is decreasing in only 5 countries. The average growth in the 28 countries of the European Union was 0.7 per cent, compared with 0.4 per cent in the euro area. During this period, the number of employees increased by 3.1 percent in Hungary, followed by 2.7 percent in Great Britain and 2.6 percent in Malta. Dear Secretary of State, Over the past four years, the government has tried a number of programmes to increase employment, including the job protection action plan, public employment or the Gyed extra programme for the employment of mothers. Can the results of these programmes be attributed to employment indicators that are outstanding in Europe as well? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2014-09-24-120	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-09-24-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the country has quite serious results at European level in terms of employment, as we can deliver very serious results compared to the 2010 situation, although we are not satisfied yet. Allow me to say some of this in telegram style. There are 340 thousand more people working than in the 2010 change of government, and in the competitive sector there are 240 thousand people; finally, the number of people in employment exceeds 4 million 100 thousand. The unemployment rate is 7.9 percent, which is 3.5 percent better than in May 2010. The increase in employment has reached the highest rate of growth in the European Union. The youth unemployment rate is 20 percent, which is still very high, but is now below the average of the European Union. There are also significant results in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, as the support has been multiplied, from HUF 2 billion to HUF 16 billion per year, and over HUF 40 billion in total employment support in the SME sector over the four years. 21,700 new jobs have been created and 45,000 have been protected, but there are equally good results in the "First Job" Guarantee Programme, where more than 18,000 young people were placed between 2012 and 2014. For example, 24,000 students participated in summer student work in 2014. But there is also a very serious result of the job protection action plan, where we managed to maintain 890 thousand people's employment. I think we have the results, the basics, and we need to talk about the sequel, and I hope I can do that for the next minute. [[Dr. István Nagy applauds.]]
u2014-09-24-122	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute. You have the floor.
u2014-09-24-123	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary of State. I think I came from an area where unemployment was quite high, above 14 per cent earlier, and now it has gone below 9 per cent in our area, which is a very good result, since we do not own an area with a large industry, but rather an agricultural one. But I have also seen in my own constituency that small and medium-sized enterprises have received very serious subsidies in recent years, and I very much hope that, in the context of EU support for the coming years, these small businesses will be able to develop even further in our district and to employ even more workers. The results of the previous years are encouraging, and I hope that the coming years will still have plenty of fruit.
u2014-09-24-124	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2014-09-24-125	Thank you very much. The government's clear goal is that the number of employees and taxpayers in Hungary should be close to or reach five million people; for countries like us, this is about that number, they are ahead of us, for example, the Czech Republic, Portugal. This is why, over the next period, EU funds will be put entirely under job creation and employment expansion, and around 60% will be spent on economic development and incentives for entrepreneurs. In particular, the small and medium-sized enterprises sector will receive substantial support, with some HUF 500 billion spent on job creation. But there is a equally good chance that both the participants in the Youth Guarantee Programme and the public workers will also apply, where the aim is to be able to go into the competition sector and to work on dual training in vocational training, so as to create better conditions for young people as well. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I trust these programs will be successful. Thank you.
u2014-09-24-126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: " What are the opportunities for organic farming in Hungary? " with the title " The Minister has appointed Mr István Nagy State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2014-09-24-127	I'll take it.
u2014-09-24-128	Yeah. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2014-09-24-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. There has been little mention of organic farming as such in the walls of this House, and few have praised it. Allow me in a few sentences before I ask you my questions. It is a farming that produces a much cheaper, long-term healthier and more valuable product, since it produces the same product without using chemicals, without using fertilizers and pesticides, and can be sold at a much higher price. [[12.50]] This is increasingly widespread, and more and more studies around the world show that this is the way of the future. The Hungarian government is also clearly committed to this, as in February the government plan "National Action Plan for the Development of Organic Farming " was adopted. However, this remains one writing, and this remained at the level of words, since no one has changed them to action, and indeed the opposite is apparent, because just these days, in the last five days, the Kishantos economy is being poisoned - let's put it this way strongly, because this is the case - that 290 hectares of 452 hectares have been sprayed or fertilized. This has lost a Bio Suisse certification in five years, which will take another five years from the end of the spray to win this high-level certification. My question is what they will do to stop this irresponsible farming without delay and when the contracts will be terminated with the so-called new tenants, since they have undertaken organic farming in this area.
u2014-09-24-130	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2014-09-24-131	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I would like to begin by finding the largest ally in the agricultural purse in the field of organic farming, because we all know that we all feel that this branch of agriculture, this direction is XXI. The century, I might add, is essential for the future of mankind. Helping, supporting, and embracing this is certainly very outstanding and very important. It is not by accident that the government's 2014-20 action plan aims to double both its crop areas and its livestock sectors. I also have to say that we are lagging behind the average of the European Union, as about 3 percent of the total area is currently under organic farming or organic farming. We would like to raise this area to 6-7 percent, since there is such a territorial, environmental and professional potential in Hungarian agriculture that we can do this. I would like to tell you and draw your attention to the fact that Kishantos is not eco-management in itself. I would like to invite you, if there is a time and way, to Rábcakapi, István Németh's economy, to look at the investments of national importance and about two decades of work in that area. And I would like to tell you that the Kishantos tenants have signed a contract guarantee that they will continue organic farming in that area. So nothing from the news that came up here is true. In the case of Kishantos, there are many cases of total untruths, not even the question is usually true in this regard. So I recommend that you come to Rábcakapi instead of Kishantos and look at all the future that the Hungarian government is imagining in the field of eco-management and all the good examples they provide in this farming. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-132	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Congressman István Ikotity, in one minute.
u2014-09-24-133	As I approached Budapest, I had the opportunity to experience this spraying in person, and the effects of this are already visible. It's weedkillers. So whatever they're saying, it's pretty clear that this spraying took place in this area, so there's been a chemical intervention. My question was involuntaryly and without time, a little cunning, as these new tenants did not undertake long-term organic farming, nor were they in the contract; point 4.4 of the contract would have obliged them to carry out organic farming for a year. We know that they did not, however, because we asked the biorating organisations whether these new tenants asked for such an eco-management opportunity and did not do so. So there has been no organic farming in the last year. My question remains: when will the new tenants' contract be terminated? And when are they gonna stop the continuous spraying that's going on right now?
u2014-09-24-134	Thank you, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2014-09-24-135	Thank you very much. He claims to be untrue, accusing farmers in Kishantos of chemicals. All new family farmers have fully complied with the obligations of the agri-environment programme. According to the lease agreements concluded in October 2013, the winners of the tender were organic in the first marketing year and the new tenants undertook to continue to comply with the kg requirements by the end of the lease contracts. So I think that's clear enough to tell you that. But I would like to remind you once again that organic farming is not equal to Kishantos. And I would very much like to make it clear from the answer that the Hungarian government is doing everything in its power to double the number of plant production areas and to double the number of animals in the coming years. And we can provide outstanding support for this, both from the European Union's framework and from national sources. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-136	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: " Where is the case? ' The title is given below. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-09-24-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The media has been reporting for years on the case of KSE Kft., a company operating a sports association in Kecskemét. His billing scandal. According to the press, the case is that it is nearly 100% municipal owned. a contract for marketing and advertising purposes with three companies whose portfolio does not include this work. According to the four-party municipal inquiry committee, the three companies received a total of HUF 298 million in public money over two years. In this case, the MSZP Centre for Democracy has filed a complaint, and according to the press reports, the NAV has launched an investigation on suspicion of tax fraud, forgery and misappropriation. That was almost three years ago. What we know, what we hear and what is the facts is that the deputy mayor responsible for the management of the Kecskemét companies was then called Szemereyné Pataki Klaudia, who has since made a great career, since during the investigation his relative György Matolcsy became a Member of Parliament on his vacant mandate, and thus gained immunity, and in the new term Dr. Gábor Zombor, former mayor of Kecskemét, has been running the city with a mandate instead of the Fidesz State Secretary for Health. Now he's running for mayor of Kecskemét in the municipal elections. In the meantime, the Kecskemét Sports Association is operated by the Kecskemét Sports Association. members of the supervisory board have left the sinking ship. The company went bankrupt. According to the press, the members of the fb have set up a new company in which the Kft. His possessions have been saved. According to the news, the publicized liquidation firm is now investigating a bankruptcy. The case, which has been troubling Kecskemé for years, is still unclear. The question is, what will be the outcome of the matter that attracts public opinion and the press? Where is the NAV supervised by your ministry in the investigation, when can the people of Kecskemét see clearly? We're waiting for an answer.
u2014-09-24-138	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-09-24-139	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The title of his question is, "Where is the case? " And the immediate question is a genre that only the question should be communicated to the responder, so obviously I couldn't figure out the " Where's the case?" I'm asking you a question about the Kecskemét case. But as I understand it, you've also made accusations based on rumors, based on newspaper news, about what you've said to public figures by name, which I'm not sure the parliamentary genre, the hour of immediate questioning, is appropriate. If you really want specifics in this case, then find another parliamentary opportunity to get information on the criminal case. By the way, the law doesn't allow me to give details, specifics, about criminal proceedings or any procedure. So, obviously, you couldn't expect a question like this to be answered in Parliament by the State Secretary of that Ministry, the Ministry that oversees the National Tax and Customs Office, to give a specific, detailed answer. [[13.00]] Obviously, you think this is suitable for a political attack, but I'm telling you that you, as a Member of Parliament, are protected by immunity, but consider that public known persons may be accused in public on the grounds of rumors and news. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-24-140	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2014-09-24-141	Dear Secretary of State, If you'd listened to what I'm saying, you could've heard that I didn't make any accusations, I was just stating facts. All I said was that the deputy mayor was the deputy mayor responsible for the companies at the time. And now the mayor of Fidesz. In the election of mayor, the local population should not feel that there is a double standard and that they do not investigate all suspicious cases unless they are opposition candidates. You must avoid the appearance of that, Mr. Secretary. After almost three years, it just seems weird not to end an investigation in a fictitious billing case in such a simple case. The only way Kecskemétians can live with their right to vote in a fair election situation is if they know the end of the case. This, I think, is in the interest of all of us in a democracy. Thank you.
u2014-09-24-142	Thank you, Congresswoman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2014-09-24-143	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He didn't just say that! There was talk of money being transferred, of newly formed companies - so pay attention to what he says! Moreover, it is legitimate that the case lasts for more than two years, as this is permitted by the Law on Criminal Procedure. And for you, I wish that if you continue to want something concrete about the case, then the 19th of 1998 on the subject of criminal proceedings. Law 74. If the prosecutor so permits, and if the person concerned has a legal interest in it, please read Section 2 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that information may be provided. Under the Act on Parliament, you are entitled to the right to be informed, but the right to be. You have to comply with the law, the law on criminal proceedings. I suggest you ask for specific information on this basis. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-24-144	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: " Did the government fail on purpose? " The title is given below. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yes, the Member accepts the person who is responding, so you have the floor.
u2014-09-24-145	Dear Secretary of State, Even as the municipal campaign approached, the government announced that it would make vaccine against previously unfunded human papilloma virus (HPV) available to everyone in the framework of free vaccination, and it would begin to defend itself by administering it in October. Fast - paced support has put one parent with a seventh grade daughter in a fast decision-making position, and dozens of questions and questions about what to know about vaccination and its possible positive or negative consequences. Rapid and violent reactions from parents and students indicated that they had failed to prepare well for the possibility of vaccination, positive and possible negative effects. This sudden and unprepared campaign trick for the public as well as for parents has raised credibility concerns about vaccination. The government made a mistake when a few weeks before the deadline for a parent's decision, for self-interest political gain, it pulled the free vaccine out of the campaign hat. This failed to allow parents and students to carefully learn about supporting and opposing vaccinations, benefits and risks. Thus, the government did not give an opportunity to a professional, scientific and social debate and consultation that was absolutely necessary before the introduction, in which supporters and opponents could have conducted a discussion which, after full knowledge of it, all parents could have made a responsible and well-founded decision in the weeks after school started. Such a rush for campaign purposes and costs HUF 1.7 billion does not benefit at all from the social acceptance of compulsory and free vaccinations, and on the other hand it is unprofessional and suspicious in wider circles. The question is: were vaccinations taken out of political gain or campaign tricks and that the social judgment of the vaccine was botched directly or negligently? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-24-146	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-09-24-147	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It would have helped you to understand your motivation, honourable Member, but in the rejoinder you will still have the opportunity to answer that you otherwise support or do not support the administration of this vaccine, since it is a vaccine that is 93 percent capable of preventing the disease from occurring at a later stage. So I think it is very right for as many people to submit such preventive vaccinations as possible. For years, many people, in different municipalities and in different municipalities, have been able to receive this vaccine free of charge, and they have asked for it in a fairly large proportion. It is important to give this to girls at this age, in the 7th grade, around the age of 12 years, because at that time, six months apart, only two injections should be given, while then three can be solved much more easily, much faster. Of course, the disease itself does not usually occur in girls from the age of 13 or 20, but in women from the age of 45, but it is very important that they already have immunity at this age. You say that this programme has not been sufficiently supported. Honourable Congressman, 83 percent of parents said that they wanted their child to receive these vaccines. If 83 percent of the parents said so, I think it went very well, because in such a voluntary declaration, this ratio is far too much for any previous declaration rates for any other vaccination. According to this, 83 percent of parents not only learned about the details, but also made a positive decision. The government is proud that we have managed to solve it, yes, with billions of dollars in budget sacrifice, but we have managed to resolve that this vaccination can now be given to all Hungarian 12-year-old schoolgirls, so that we can maintain their health to a large extent and reduce the risk of disease decades later by 93%. We are glad that 83 percent of Hungarian parents agreed with us on this. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-24-148	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. The congressman has a rejoinder.
u2014-09-24-149	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I still have a sense of lack in your response, which is what I take as a confession that you admitted that this was a campaign trick and that you were prepared for the campaign, because you are deeply silent on this issue, and you do not mention why this was the timing after all. The other thing he didn't answer was who was consulted and under what circumstances. He gave a figure that clearly showed that the parents were still unable to be convinced, so the information was inadequate. We also did not receive an answer to the timing. I believe and it seems that you are able to use a useful and good thing clumsyly and unable to respond adequately to these challenges and are unable to make this story clear. I cannot accept that answer or what you have said at all. There's a blur or a smear on the case. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-24-150	Thank you. I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State in return.
u2014-09-24-151	Honourable Congressman, He would have had the opportunity twice to support the vaccination of Hungarian girls against cervical cancer. You've never lived with it. He was trying to make some kind of political capital out of it here. I think everyone should be happy about this. As I said earlier, if 83 percent of parents agree with this and get their daughter vaccinated, I think the government has made the right decision and is putting this public money in a very good place. You know very well, you just keep quiet that this is not a one-year programme, but a multi-year programme, so we have enough vaccine for several years to inoculate young girls. And as I told you in the introduction, there have been many cases of HPV vaccination in many places, thanks to local authorities, and now they get it at national level. This has nothing to do with anything in particular - how could a multi-annual programme have anything to do with a campaign period? And if anyone else in this country or in any other country promises to give HPV vaccine in the campaign, either as a municipal promise or in any other vaccination in any campaign, I think it is one of the best promises, especially if 83 percent of parents support it. That's what politics should be about, doing the will of more than four fifths of people. That's what we've managed to achieve in this decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-24-152	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 1:10 p.m., and we're moving on to questioning. [[13.10]] Dear Parliament, László Kiss, representative of MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development: "Do you plan to carry out the extension of tram route 1 as a priority investment in the government cycle? " with the title " Mr László Kiss has the floor.
u2014-09-24-153	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. At present, the tram line 1 is being modernised and the Esztergom railway is being renovated with a number of bumps. Hopefully, further construction of the M0 ring will begin soon. I believe that these constructions and planned construction projects should provide a sufficient logistical basis for extending tram line 1 to the Óbuda railway line. If we think that we want people to use public transport as much as possible, then, as appropriate, we should give them the opportunity to do so. In the long-term development plan of the capital until 2030, we can see this renovation plan anyway, so we think that we, Mr. Districts, it's time for something to come out of the plan. This development would only be desirable for the capital as a whole, because perhaps Óbuda is the only large cemetery to which relatives, very large numbers of elderly people cannot get directly to, and they cannot visit their loved ones directly. Here you will be able to approach the cemetery and vice versa, as well as people living in the agglomeration and on the mountain, without traffic, to the Western Railway Station. Tram 1 has no Fidesz, socialist or other party passengers. He has passengers who want quality public transport, citizens of Óbuda who want to enter the city. I therefore ask Minister whether they are planning to make the extension of tram 1 as a priority investment in the next term of government, and whether there is real coordination between the government and the capital, which improvements will be launched in the coming years, this will be among them. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-24-154	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2014-09-24-155	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government formed in 2010 and the then elected Metropolitan Assembly inherited a capital community network, vehicle park and huge debt from former left-wing governments and former liberal city leadership. From the Transport Operational Programme to environmentally friendly Community transport development in urban and suburban areas, HUF 545 billion can be used at national level. Almost half of this, some HUF 210 billion, had to be used to build metro line 4. The current government supports surface transport within the limits available. As a result, significant investments that cannot be measured previously can be completed, which will have a significant impact on the transport of the capital. These include the acquisition of electricity and trolleybuses, the construction of the tram network in Buda and the reconstruction of tram tracks 1 and 3. A study was carried out in 2013 to prepare for the extension of the external Vienna road tram line to the end of the Golden Valley. Within the framework of the investment, six new stops were established on a new line stretch of 3 thousand metres. The estimated total investment cost is about HUF 7 billion, and the implementation takes about 3-3 to 3.5 years. During the 2014-2020 funding period, the IKOP's so-called tri-priority gave the framework to support the extension of tram line 1. The IKOP is waiting for the approval of the European Commission. So what we needed to prepare here, we did, it's in the Union. Following the completion of the ongoing technical consultation, it is possible to tell which of the prepared projects could be implemented from EU funds in the next cycle. The ranking and timing of the projects will, of course, also depend on the decision of the Metropolitan Municipality. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you for your patience, thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-09-24-156	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: " Is your name a sinking Atlantis - Somogya? " The title is given below. The question will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by Mr Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor.
u2014-09-24-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Somogyország - with a proud bias - is the most beautiful county in our country. However, over the thirty years since the beginning of the 1980s, the population of 360,000 has fallen to 315 thousand, which is actually more than twice the national decline. Now we're talking about two funerals for each birth in our county opposite the national one-and-a-half. Koppány leader's former Urus branch with its wonderful Árpád-age villages slowly and with historical scale does not slowly, but more surely eliminate itself. Ageing, catastrophic population loss and ever-increasing ethnic restructuring raises very, very serious questions and will fundamentally determine the future of our communities. How did Michael Babits once write it in the West? " You need to talk, you need to cry, you need to cry, you need to cry until someone finds this defense. And once the Hungarians are destroyed, they will die unmemorable, without trace. Nobody barks, the crow doesn't scream after us. All that we've done and created, it's gone, like it's never happened. " Parallel to the death of the population, the degradation of the built environment is astonishing. More than 20,000 of the 120,000 residential properties of the county are empty, and with their farm buildings that are suitable for farmland farming, they will sooner or later, in light of the current developments, but unfortunately, they will be owned by the peasantry first. After several years of delay in the area development concept of national development in 2030, it has finally been stated that a large number of empty properties in small-scale areas need to be assessed and a plan developed for their exploitation. That's why it's fair to ask why the government hasn't done anything to measure or save at least one hundred billion dollars of wealth in our county. Why doesn't the wider public get information about small villages that make up a third of the Hungarian settlements [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] specific ideas that fundamentally affect his fate? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-24-158	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2014-09-24-159	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak, thank you very much for the question of my fellow Member, with whom we can share more of his findings. It is indeed a serious responsibility for the Parliament and for the executive power that Europe, perhaps after the British, should mention its oldest country, its state, the more than a thousand-year-old Hungary, as a state and a country in five hundred years' time. I think it's a serious responsibility for the government these days for a number of reasons. What you raise is the problem I have raised here several times. I'm happy to be ready for any debate or personal discussion about this. For the next four years, the most important social policy challenge of this government after the local elections will be how it can keep small settlements in Somogy, which you value and love, just like in Békés County or South Baranya, in order not to reduce the number of inhabitants. This is basically an economic resource issue. This should therefore not only appear at the level of the national development and territorial development concept mentioned by you or at the level of the rural development programme drawn up by the Ministry of Agriculture and now to be translated into EU support, but also at the level of management of the assets available to the State. That is why we have tried to start redeploying public land, which is why we are going to review the state forestry situation, because we believe that these should be used essentially for the benefit of the municipalities, for the benefit of the communities organised by the municipalities and, in particular, for the benefit of those living there. Our aim is to ensure that the natural and economic resources available locally, owned by the state, can support these small communities. In what plan and framework this will take place: there is HUF 1200 billion in the next seven-year development plan, which will be distributed by municipalities and counties. Somogy County is going to be a regional development county instead of an institution-supporting county. I hope that these aspects will also prevail there. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-09-24-160	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Róbert Benedek Sallai, representative of LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister: " Who pays the cost of playground fraud? " with the title " It's for the congressman. [[13.20]]
u2014-09-24-161	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. The Minister's unpleasant situation will now be that I think he has mixed the answer to my question with the previous answers in his speech. As a significant part of my question, I wanted to know that in the case of a playground scandal involving 145 small settlements in Hungary, it was confirmed that the government and MVH could not fully prevent the inefficient use of EU funds and that they could not prevent abuses in this regard. As the Minister said in his reply, these use of resources started in 2008, but not only until 2009, but until 2011. At the moment, when the European Anti-Fraud Office has found out about the case and has taken steps and initiatives to recover the aid, there are very, very many questions. Where's the application company that got this 145 municipalities to do it? Who is responsible for the fact that no action has been taken in previous systems, where, among other things, a State Secretary of the MSZP has noticed overinvoicing in these cases? Where is the responsibility for where these burdens will apply? How will the municipalities be affected? Does the government pay back these money? Where are the developers who made these overpriced budget investments? Whose responsibility is that, anyway? It raises the question whether the sudden resignation or resignation of the head of the MVH is in any context with this and whether there is no government responsibility that might be worth discussing between the walls of Parliament. We are very, very concerned about the situation of these municipalities, and we express our concern that Hungary's European opinion will not improve at all if all these possible abuses are not revealed by the Hungarian government's own administrations. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If the MVH can't do this, we can't bring this country into the news that the EU is constantly investigating us. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-24-162	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2014-09-24-163	If the President demonstrates a fair housekeeping exercise, I would like to return, if I may, for a sentence, to what my fellow Member Mr Ander Balázs has said. Construction belongs to the Prime Minister's Office, and Deputy State Secretary Zsolt Füleky has at his disposal the Member's comments on the specific plan, even on the revision of them. As far as the question of my fellow Member Sallai is concerned, there was indeed a practice in 2008 and 2009, and there are more than a hundred municipalities that have used this practice. Not everyone has fallen in connection with the investigation, not everyone is presumed to be cheating, but there is also a significant number of fraud suspects who have done that the otherwise legitimate social policy objective, allocated through the rural development system, has been achieved by applying for extra support with the help of a consultant, and the contractor has returned funds, obviously mainly to the consultant and the municipality has not been badly affected. This technology failed at the European Union Anti-Fraud Office. In 2011, this procedure was terminated by the current government. The consequences are serious, as OLAF, the Anti-Fraud Office, claims that the European Commission should ask for the money spent on the entire programme - this will be HUF 1.3 billion. Firstly, what we can do is that the Ministry of Interior must stand up to the European Commission on behalf of the country, so that the municipal fund of the Ministry of Interior should help municipalities that could not repay this money. After all, the mayors may be long gone, the body of representatives is no longer there, the person responsible for the fraud is no longer necessarily in the body of representatives and the office of the municipality, but the person who is in office - and who is not in office - must also be examined by the Chief Prosecutor's Office. I do not believe that this has a significant impact on Hungary's reputation, given that Hungary has, by the way, improved significantly in the use of money over the past two years. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-164	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Alpár Gyopáros, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy: " What can the Csorna people expect from the building of solar panels? " The title is given below. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is competent and competent under the subject, will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-09-24-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, In our common narrower country, Győr-Moson-Sopron County, and allow me to say two sentences about the diligence, working and load capacity of people living in my narrower country, Rába and Csorna. This is well-known now, we have talked about this many times within these walls, but few know what opportunities people living in Rába and Csorna have in terms of access to work and employment. This region is in a relatively envious situation compared to many other regions in the country, as the unemployment rate is extremely low. According to the latest monthly data, the number of registered job seekers in Csorna is 1.1 percent; I note that this was 6.5 percent four years ago at the beginning of 2010. The problem for the Csornai is that the work is typically not found locally, but in other parts of the county, Győr, the area of Sopron or Mosonmagyaróvár, and in Csorna in the 24 years since the change of regime, there was not a single major investment in job creation. On 20 September 2014, however, a new solar battery plant, which is unique worldwide, was launched. Dear Minister, As we all know, energy efficiency is a key issue for us not only in terms of competitiveness but also in terms of sustainable development. Solar production is the fastest growing sector in the renewable energy sector, so the new plant creates not only jobs but also significant added value. It is therefore important for the Csorna people to set up a new plant, create new jobs, strengthen the city's tax capacity, increase the central role of the region, strengthen its institutional capacity and stop the migration in Csorna and its region. That is why I ask the Minister: how much did the Hungarian government support the launch of this plant? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and the commitments made by the investor. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-166	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Péter Szijjártó.
u2014-09-24-167	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, The investment of the solar plant in Csorna coincides with the economic policy objectives of the Hungarian government in several respects. In 2010, we set the goal of becoming Europe's centre of production; in 2014 we complemented this by attracting as many high-tech R &amp; D and innovation capacities as possible to Hungary. In addition, Hungary has made a more stringent commitment to the use of renewable energy sources than the EU standard. We would like to achieve that by 2020, the share of renewable energies in total Hungarian energy consumption exceeds 14.5 per cent. As a result of these three factors, the government decided to grant individual government decision-based investment promotion support to the construction of the solar cell plant in Csorna in the amount of HUF 1 billion. In addition, the new Széchenyi plan gave the investment a HUF 2 billion grant. The new solar cell plant in Csorna will create 212 new jobs, further improving the employment situation in the region, and, as a guarantee of long-term operation, solar cells in the solar cell factory in Csorna will produce solar cells that are not very competitive in terms of efficiency, at least nearby. As far as we know, only one factory in Japan in the entire industry can produce solar cells of similar efficiency as the solar cell factory in Csorna, the construction of which has just begun. On the basis of the negotiations with the company, I respectfully inform the Member that production is expected to start in the second half of 2015. At the same time, thank you very much for your personal intervention in order for this solar plant to choose Hungary as the location of the investment. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-168	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea, an independent Member, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Is the submission of the Hungarian government to the Russian extremes and oligarchs boundless? " The title is given below. You have the floor, Congresswoman. [[13.30]]
u2014-09-24-169	Dear Minister, A conference on family policy issues was held in Moscow recently, where, among other things, the leaders of fundamentalist organisations who regularly lobby against gay marriage and abortion were also present - and you may be more interested in that - billionaires who have already been subject to sanctions by the EU and the US because of their dubious financing transactions and the incitement of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict. In addition, one of these billionaires is considered to be one of the links between Putin and the extreme right-wing EU-hating parties he has funded in the background. Despite all these facts, Gergely Prőhle, Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, also attended this conference. Of course, Hungarian citizens didn't know anything about this, because the government didn't want to put it in the window, perhaps for understandable reasons. You explained this by saying that the event was included in international reports, and Gergely Próhle is not a political player, while he is obviously an assistant state secretary of the Hungarian government, so he is supposed to deal with issues concerning Hungarian citizens. Dear Minister, Doesn't Gergely Prőhle, Deputy State Secretary for EU Affairs, consider his secret participation at an event in Moscow where extremists and oligarchs under EU sanctions were present? What was the exact purpose of the journey and what happened at this conference? I do not know exactly who will answer, but I look forward to Minister's reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the independent.]]
u2014-09-24-170	I'll give you the person, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-09-24-171	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Hungary was invited to a professional conference through the Russian Demographic Research Institute, which we accepted, as Hungarian family policy is also watched on the international stage, and is considered to be such an example, which considered such a talk important in professional circles. For this reason, in addition to many other American, African speakers and the Croatian Family Alliance from Europe or Luca Volunte, a former representative of the Council of Europe, Gergely Próhle, Deputy State Secretary of the Council of Europe, told in his professional talk about the objectives of Hungarian family policy, the results we achieved, how other countries could change their own legislation for these successes. The conference itself was called "The Great Family, the Future of Mankind " and left as a leading government official and not as a politician. There is no secrecy in this, since the event itself was public. Then Deputy State Secretary Gergely Prőhle, when the media called for him, said. You may have heard the conversation with him in Klubrádió, as everyone was looking forward to it, if you asked about this conference, where the demographic changes in Hungary were positively appreciated by everyone. By the way, he himself spoke at this conference between Chief Rabbi Berel Lazar and the Russian Chief Mufti. So, do you think they're a couple of guys who play music, too? Isn't it? Patriarch Kirill also spoke, who also received international recognition, and Archbishop Vincenzo Paria spoke at this conference, where the speakers really voted for the value of the family. They only talked about professional issues on the international stage, coming from several countries on several continents. I think that it should be welcomed that Hungarian demographics, Hungarian demographic measures, are seen as exemplary in several countries. We'd be happy to tell everyone about this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-172	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Office: "Is compliance with the government-based journalistic professional criteria the reason for taxing the RTL Club with an unprecedented tax rate? Who'd you have watching the RTL Club broadcasts with? " with the title " Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor.
u2014-09-24-173	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, K/1171. I asked you, in my written question, whether compliance with the government-based journalist-professional criteria was the reason why the RTL Club was taxed with an unprecedented rate of taxation. Unfortunately, you answered the question in your usual style, with the usual accusations of a template from government communication propaganda. You claimed that the payment of an advertising tax is a tax, a burden-sharing issue. That is true, because the tax is a public burden, Minister, we both know that. That's not what the debate is about. The question is why the highest public burden is the target whose taxation activities are not sympathetic to the government. You didn't answer my question, Minister, which is K/1169. I've been betting on who he's been watching RTL Club shows with for nine months. His answer was that he had him watched, because it was necessary. Therefore, we do not know who the Prime Minister's Office has signed a contract with to establish the advertising tax, so to speak. Atlatszo.hu published a background document evaluating RTL Klub's television programmes in its summary study from 1 September 2012 to 31 May 2013. According to the introduction of the study, the expert material examined the public political news programmes and newsbackground programmes of the RTL group in terms of the degree to which they meet the journalistic and professional criteria for balance and correct information. I ask you, Minister, do you think that the professional criteria of journalists are only met by media content that praises governance and is listening to its mistakes? Was compliance with the government-based journalistic professional criteria the reason for taxing the RTL Club with an unprecedented rate of taxation? Well, who'd you keep watching the show with for nine months? If this is not an unacceptable request, please give me a substantive answer to my questions this time and ignore the incriminating, evasive template responses. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-24-174	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2014-09-24-175	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am trying to ignore the systematic responses to reassure my fellow Member. I do not know whether he is an accepted or unaccepted proponent of the RTL Club, because as an excellent lawyer, the few sentences he has just said could have been said in favour of one of the large tax burdens, since we cannot dispute that he has a significant tax burden, he has spoken in Parliament. Whether this raises or reduces the rate of the RTL Club should be left to the viewers. What I would like to say to you, however, is two things. One is that Hungary has moved to the system of special taxes on the basis of a fully conscious political decision after 2010 - which you have constantly debated. You are following the general policy of skinning people, and we believe, on the other hand, that those who make a lot of money must pay. Among these taxes, the bank tax and the telecommunications special tax passed through the European Commission's filter - I draw your attention to it - and the advertising tax exists in EU tax law practice. Large commercial televisions, such as those over most of the advertising cake, were involved in public burdens on this basis, and therefore on the basis of economic and financial considerations, to a greater extent than previously, and after we know from the words of my fellow Member András Tállai that the debate on tax laws and budgets is imminent, we can prepare for the tax laws, because I would be surprised if the NGM did not keep this special tax, after other special taxes have worked for the country. It is a shocking fact that, after the adoption of the law, the RTL Club and the RTL Group have found out in recent years how the Hungarian tax rules have been avoided by professional lawyers and tax advisors. This only exacerbates the situation as regards the taxation of those with high incomes. As regards the evaluation of the articles or the evaluation of the opinion on the government: Hungary's Government reads everything that appears in Hungary through the Prime Minister's Office. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I didn't get an answer now, but I'm still trying.]]
u2014-09-24-176	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik... [[Noise.]] My fellow Members, there is no room for dialogue in this Chamber. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy: " What steps does the government intend to take to remedy the problem surrounding the pay gap on Sunday? " with the title " You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-09-24-177	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Last year, there was a reverse situation around the institution of wage replacements that made the situation of workers in full vulnerability even more hopeless. In a judgment last year, the Curia qualified a business in a shopping mall in Budapest as an employer also operating on Sunday. As a result of the decision, the 50 percent Sunday supplement institution is no longer guaranteed by the law for the employees of shops in shopping centres, but this also includes employees of other multinational companies, such as those working in bulk at gas stations. In our opinion, the judgment of the Curia can be read from the resolution that the need for Sunday shopping can prevent the social interest of maintaining the unity of families. As a result of the ominous practice of the courts, a lot of employers have lost their rightful Sunday allowance, which, in our view, is completely unfair, since Sunday work is an extra burden for all workers. [[13.40]] The reason for this is that a number of disadvantagees are faced by employees, which are true, non-money-enabled phenomena, but the use of the wage substitute institution would be somewhat compensated. For example, we can mention the weakening of family and friendly relationships, the limited use of leisure time. I find it unacceptable that the government's inaction in a situation where there is a constant social debate on the possibility of abolishing Sunday work. There is a strong social expectation for the government to establish a regulatory framework in which Sunday work can only take place in exceptional cases and, on the other hand, financial compensation for Sunday work with additional burdens. Jobbik's position is clear on the issue, and we stand firmly for workers to receive the allowance for their Sunday work. On this basis, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what steps the government is planning to take in order to return the extra wage on Sunday. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-24-178	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-09-24-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in general, workers cannot be assigned to regular working hours on Sundays or on a public holiday. On these days, workers should only be required to work in exceptional cases which are clearly and strictly defined by law. The dispute you mentioned occurred before July 2012 and therefore the court must apply the rules of the Code of Old Labour in order to consider it. In its ad hoc decision in May 2013, the Curia interpreted it accordingly, and I quote: "the employer, which is also working on Sunday due to its purpose. " However, the situation of the law has changed since then. Contrary to previous regulations, the Code of New Work provides for, independently and separately, Sunday work related to commercial activity and its remuneration. According to this, regular working hours can also be ordered in commercial businesses on Sundays for employers covered by the Trade Act, i.e. those who work for this employer. In this case, the worker is entitled to a 50 per cent wage allowance, so-called Sunday allowance. To sum up, therefore, the decision of the Curia in the commercial business has no impact on the situation resulting from the entry into force of the Labour Code and the recent amendment. In addition, neither the employer nor employees' representatives indicated any problems with the application of Sunday work rules. Please acknowledge my reply. Thank you.
u2014-09-24-180	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the discussion of the questions. We will continue our work according to our agreed agenda. Dear Parliament, It follows that the 2014 XXXVIII on the resolution of certain issues relating to the Curia's joint decision on consumer lending contracts in financial institutions will follow. a summary report submitted for the submission of the rules on the accounts and certain other provisions laid down in the Act and a discussion of the draft amending proposal with a derogation from the house rule. The submission was made in T/1272. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/1272/4. The summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate was T/1272/5. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to Congressman Ákos Kara, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-09-24-181	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that T/1272. The 2014 XXXVIII report on the resolution of certain issues relating to the Curia's joint decision on consumer lending contracts in financial institutions. The detailed discussion of the bill on the rules of accounting laid down in law and certain other provisions was carried out by the Legislative Committee. He presented 25 amendments and a summary report to the bill with 1 no and 5 abstentions. As regards the history of the submitted bill, it should be noted here that, as a result of the decision of the Curia on 16 June 2014, the Parliament adopted, by way of an exceptional procedure, the first law aimed at assisting foreign exchange lenders, under which it became the task of financial institutions to eliminate unfair clauses from the general terms and conditions applied by them. It was a good and right decision in our view for the Parliament. In addition, we stated that creditors had to reimburse their customers of the items unfairly liquidated according to the Curia's decision. In fact, the bill we are discussing now settles this obligation, as indicated at the summer session, that is step two. The most important thing, perhaps, is that more than 1 million, 1.3 million families can get back the unfairly stolen funds from banks under the legislation, so the repayments may decrease by 25-30 percent on average. The 400 financial institutions concerned must account for all foreign currency and HUF loans. Overpayments should be taken into account as early repayments of capital, which is the largest refund for debtors. The proposal, also called the Act of Accounting of Banks, empowers the Hungarian National Bank to establish a decree on the basis of which formulas the settlement should be made to the clients of financial institutions. The National Bank will also have the right to check this settlement for each credit agreement and client, which we consider to be particularly important. Financial institutions are required to calculate the amount of the debtor's return on the basis of a later decree of the National Bank, which is estimated to be close to HUF 1000 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, The main rule of the accounting methodology proposed by the author is that the consumer should be put in a position where, since the date of conclusion of the contract, it has been settled at the rate laid down by law and at the initial level of interest at the time of the contract. The summary amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee to this proposal, which actually contains its own amendment, contains mainly technical amendments. The change in content is that the amending proposal states that if the consumer has concluded a HUF-based consumer loan contract for the purpose of final repayment, he does not have to pay the HUF 10 thousand fee included in the draft, provided that the HUF-based consumer loan contract is concluded with the financial institution or other financial institution required to be cleared, and the consumer confirms that the HUF-based loan contract was concluded for the purpose of final repayment. An important change, which is included in this amending proposal, is to introduce the institution of the moratorium on termination, to exclude the possibility of revision, to declare suspension of proceedings and to link nullity to specific legal consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, We will continue to act against unfair banking behaviour and in favour of predictable lending. That is why I ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much for listening, Mr President.
u2014-09-24-182	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the authors, Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, has indicated his intention to speak. Before I give the floor, I would like to inform the Secretary of State that there is a total time frame of 10 minutes for speaking in the debate and presenting a possible closing phrase. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-09-24-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On one occasion, I would like to speak in the debate. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill setting out the rules for clearing credit agreements between financial institutions and consumers is another milestone on the path that will lead to a clearly predictable and, of course, satisfactory closure of credit transactions involving a significant proportion of Hungarian families in an existential crisis for both consumers and financial institutions. The bill can be seen as a new stage in the legislative process to protect creditors and to settle their legal situation with the first foreign currency authentic law adopted by this House in July this year. [[13.50]] However, in some respects, the bill goes beyond the objectives of the July Act by creating a clear legal environment for an even wider number of individual debtors of loan transactions in which the household's financial balance can now be actually calculated for thousands of families and can be planned in the light of their consumer loan agreements. During the debate on the bill, it became clear that, with the aim of achieving the proposal, namely the establishment of a legislative framework for accounting between financial institutions and consumers, including the principles of accounting, my fellow Members agree in principle. At the same time, during the general debate, several of my fellow Members resented the fact that, in addition to laying down general accounting rules, the bill empowers the President of the Hungarian National Bank to regulate the details and methodology of the accounts in a regulation. I think it is important to draw attention once again to the fact that this solution, in addition to the fact that it comes from legislation governing detailed regulation, is justified by the large number of consumer credit types in practice. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, once again to give you a brief summary of the concept of the bill. The bill also extends the clearing obligation to loans that are not foreign exchange-based, as well as to consumer loan contracts that have ceased as a result of the so-called preferential end-payment and the purchase of residential property by the National Asset Manager. The bill aims primarily to address the issue of overpayments for consumers due to the application of invalid contractual clauses, and, bearing in mind this, it lays down general accounting rules that are laid down in individual lawsuits, the Ptk. In the light of his interpretation, the court itself would employ me. The main rule of the clearing methodology is that the consumer should be placed in a position where, since the date of the contract, the settlement would have taken place on the official exchange rate of the Hungarian National Bank and at the initial level of interest at the time of the contract. The bill also sets out the exact date on which the bank's clearing obligation is set. It also provides a wide range of rights of appeal against financial institutions' accounts, from consumer complaints to judicial review. The bill also provides for the further fate of the lawsuits suspended under the first foreign currency loan law and the executions suspended. Turning to substantive changes to the proposal, the following should be highlighted. In addition to the introduction of a moratorium on interest, costs and fees, there is also a need to limit the period of termination and the duration of the loss of rights. Accordingly, the termination of consumer loan contracts by financial institutions or the payment of the outstanding amount may only take effect after the settlement obligation on the financial institution has been fulfilled and in the event that the termination or the lump sum of the outstanding debt would still comply with the legal and contractual conditions following the settlement of the consumer's claim. It should also be noted that if the consumer has concluded a HUF-based consumer loan contract for the purpose of final repayment, he does not have to pay a fee of HUF 10 000, provided that the HUF-based consumer loan contract is concluded with the financial institution or other financial institution that is required to be cleared and that the consumer confirms that the HUF-based consumer loan contract was concluded for the purpose of final repayment. The amending proposal also clarifies that the amount of consumer claims that cannot be paid to the consumer on its own account should be placed by the financial institution in a separate account. However, this does not constitute a consumer account claim, but a claim for money which is not, on the one hand, subject to interest and, on the other hand, to the general rules of civil law relating to obligations. This rule may apply mutatis mutandis where the consumer loan contract has already been concluded, i.e. the consumer's obligation to discharge has ceased and the financial institution is liable to pay on the basis of the accounts. Taking into account that the error in the accounts may also be based on calculation of incorrect data, the bill ensures that the consumer can also contest the accounting in a way that facilitates a uniform interpretation of the law. The rules governing the procedure of the Financial Reconciliation Board now provide that the Board may act only on advice and that, at the request of either Party, a hearing is to be held and that a decision is to be challenged even if it finds the correct settlement different from that of the consumer's request. According to the amending proposal, the final settlement decision in the clearance procedure before the Financial Reconciliation Board and in the non-court procedure will not be contested in other civil proceedings. The reason for this is that the bill provides for appropriate remedies against settlement and, in the case of these proceedings, there is a particular interest in bringing disputes to a final conclusion as soon as possible. According to the first foreign currency authentic law, the court shall suspend the court's own proceedings in accordance with the conditions laid down in the law until the measure laid down in the separate Act, but no later than 31 December 2014. The bill refers to a separate legislation to settle the length of the suspension of proceedings in the case of suspended proceedings, but, for reasons of guarantee, the date of the end date of 31 December 2015. Further provisions are added to the bill in order to clarify the procedure to be followed by the applicant for enforcement after the settlement, as well as the procedure to be followed for the court or notary of enforcement. In addition to the above, a number of additional specific rules have been introduced in the bill in relation to implementation, which concern the laws governing accounting and tax law, the exchange rate barrier and the financial institutions in liquidation or liquidation. Overall, it can therefore be concluded that the bill is fundamentally amended in order to protect consumers' interests by the amendments and that other amendments help the law-makers by clarifying the rules of the law in order to avoid interpretation uncertainties. Dear Parliament, I thank Members and the Legislative Committee for their participation in the debate and for their amendments. I ask you to pass the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-184	I thank the Secretary of State for his speech and for his reply on the agenda. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak on the basis of a derogation from the adopted house rules. For these groups of representatives, 5-5 minutes are available and independent representatives can express their views in a total of 3 minutes. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. First up is Mr Pál Völner, Member of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-09-24-185	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The Gyurcsány-Bajnai era has conducted irresponsible policies in a number of fields, including foreign exchange loans, which have led to tens of thousands of families dreading coming to the streets in recent years. While in 2004 the stock of foreign currency-based housing loans was less than HUF 150 billion, it exceeded several thousand billion forints by 2010. Due to the lack of adequate public supervision, nearly one million families have become vulnerable to banks. In view of the overall social problem, the Fidesz-KDNP Fraction Association has been working since 2010 to find a definitive solution to issues related to foreign exchange lending and to lead these loans out of the market. In the framework of the home security programme, more than 500 thousand families affected by foreign exchange loans have received assistance in some form. Thanks to these measures, the stock of foreign currency-based housing loans has decreased by more than HUF 1000 billion in the last four years. [[14.00]] The government's aim is to ensure that the banks are fully accounted for by the end of 2015. Banks have to account for housing loans, free-use pawn loans, car loans, consumer loans, and all forint loans. This bill means that we will bring justice to 1 million 300,000 families. Several points of the amendment were addressed in detail by the Secretary of State, and I would not mention this here. I would ask this House to vote in favour of the proposal that has been tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-186	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mr András Schiffer, Member of the LMP Group. You have the floor.
u2014-09-24-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Listening to our fellow Congressman Volner, I just came up with the question that since you're so confident... - [[For signal:]] Congressman Völner, I'm sorry. If you've been so confident about Fidesz-KDNP working on the foreign exchange crisis since 2010, what have you been doing for four years? 'Cause they weren't trying to solve it, that's for sure. [[Zoltán Lukács: Railways were built.]] There is still no answer as to why these laws will be brought before the House now, or why this package of laws that we are discussing has not already come before the House in July, unless there is an election campaign now, and you need another campaign to feed people. That's what I'm talking about. If they were really worried about the people, this package of laws before us would have come before the House in July at the latest, along with the July law. That is not what you care about, but how you can conduct a short-term campaign. Secondly, there is still no answer to the proposals made by the LMP over the past many years to ensure that the civil code clearly forbids looking into the future, so that foreign exchange-based transactions can be properly concluded in this country, were swept off the table. When we demanded that no credit transactions of this kind be carried out on the basis of a notary deed, you were afraid of the Banking Federation, you took sides with the banks and swept this claim off the table. Thirdly, when we demanded in the last year that claims arising from such credit transactions should not be factored in, transferred to banks to all sorts of back-up companies, they once again surrendered to the Banking Association and swept off this proposal. We have now received a bill that will undoubtedly help those who have suffered credit damage, but we are still not talking about forinting. There is something else, however, and this has been mentioned in the Legislative Committee, namely that the bill is set at 45. §2 of the Act, which proclaims a moratorium on interest rates for two years, is here before the Parliament, so that the government, although otherwise required by the legislative law, has not carried out any impact assessment, has not placed it on the House's table. Before they turn on the bullshit generator again, I'd like to tell you that we're not worried about the banks. We're not interested in how bank leaders or bank shareholders feel. If there's anything we're worried about, it's a drain on the credit market. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In a national economy where the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises sector is already suffering a decade's disadvantage, it would perhaps be expected that when a government which considers itself responsible brings such a proposal to the House, which provides for such a rate moratorium, it would also present to Parliament how small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary will otherwise obtain credit, how the economy will develop. We've known since Széchenyi that if there's no credit, there's no progress. That's what we were looking for. No response, no impact assessment. However, we are, of course, obliged to vote in favour of the summarised amendment and to vote in favour of the bill itself. For if it had been four years late, but something happened in order to help those who have suffered credit, although the full solution would be to weed out foreign currency elements, forinting; and if we had accepted the proposals that we had placed on the House's table in the last year, so that no such transaction could be made in Hungary at all in the future, these claims could not be transferred to collecting companies; and, thirdly, that, by circumventing the judicial route, no enforcement of such loan transactions could be carried out on the basis of a notary deed. I note here that this last demand is also important, because everything that has been going on for a good half a year since the Curia's legal unit resolution assumes that the unfairness of the terms will be determined by a court. However, if a person is already locked away from the judicial route, he will not be in a position to establish unfair conditions against him. This is why the proposal continues to apply, and we demand that, on the basis of a notary deed, the right of enforcement arising from such foreign exchange credit transactions concluded with the deception of the people should not be effectively exercised. So, overall, this proposal is not complete, but at least one step forward. We will therefore support it in the final vote. Forinting would be the solution, the solution would be instant forinting, the 45th. With the two-year interest rate moratorium, the government is releasing the country with unforeseen risks, and the losers of this will be small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] No illusions, oligarchs close to you or multinational companies [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] there are plenty of them, even if the credit market is frozen, SMEs are not. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-24-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2014-09-24-189	Mr President, Dear House, In itself, scandalous phenomena have led to what we are discussing here. The fact that it was necessary to ask for time at the Legislative Committee did not allow the pro-government representatives to read what they had voted fairly, even in the lead-down, which was due to the fact that it was a proposal or a series of proposals, which, although no doubt in the right direction, led back in a hasty, somewhat campaigning way. And the only way to vote for the proposal is by a yes, not by a debate between us. The debate is why it took four and a half years to do this, why now in campaign speed, why in consultation with the Banking Association and not with the stakeholders, why, in this way, why vaguely put about forinting, why the issue of forinting at the rate of admission will be removed. The point is that there are enormous dangers in what lies before us, and even at the last minute, we have to make desperate attempts to see this, to modify it, to correct it. What we have to say is that unfortunately, the wink of the accomplice turns out that you do not want to eliminate the dangers that are undoubtedly present before us. With the so-called accountability package, thousands of lawsuits hanging over the heads of banks as the sword of Damocles are already being removed. So with the suspension that they put in... - let us let them face constitutional rights, we know very well that it would be a constitutional right to turn to the court, it should be possible for the debtor to decide between litigation or settlement. Since this doesn't happen, and you're releasing some of the virtual debt on the basis of a hypothetical will, a little virtually, that's a high degree of lie. Everyone knows that no currency circulation has been made in only 20 percent of the cases, this is shown in quarterly reports, and foreign exchange payments and repayments are made in a small proportion of cases. At the same time, the relationship between this tiny proportion reveals the amazing professional gown with which this package of amendments has been made and has come before us. After all, they talk about contractual arrangements where they are close to forint loans in terms of regulation. I don't know what kind of professional definition this is, that there is a contractual arrangement close to something, but I can't imagine how it could be that neither the legislator nor the Curia even clarified the basics of what types of loan contracts we are talking about in this case. Not to mention that, during the implementations, the public documents issued were clearly based on fraudulent or incorrect calculations. In this way, almost all of the implementations can be said to have taken place illegally, but they do call for a review, but unfortunately this has not even occurred. But it is quite amazing that the legislator is talking about the types of contracts close to certain forint loans in a material that comes before Parliament. So this professional level is something quite incredible. And we must add that, by separating other claims in the same lawsuit in the case of possible lawsuits, they will once again take away the possibility that victims will be able to get back what they have taken from us in a manner that approximates their real damage. The suspension of lawsuits is therefore a huge favour to the banks, and it is very difficult to argue about this, but the assumption that it is in the best interest of the injured party to count his repayment is also quite amazing. The stolen property should be returned to the owner who has the right to dispose of his property. The fact that the legislator wants to be involved in this is not only invaluable professionally, but also ridiculously transparent. It should therefore be possible for the person concerned to continue to choose to sue instead of legal settlement. [[14.10]] From a consumer point of view, it is pointless to analyse this proposal both in terms of time and in terms of technical deficiencies, which can be found in the proposal. At the same time, it can be seen that a small amount of a virtual debt is released, a little of an unduly large mass is released, but they still charge the victims undue amounts. They take care of the whole problem by taking the stolen stuff, say, a stereo tower back to the store, then everything's fine, then you'll get away with the extra punishment. It is completely unprecedented, not only in the world market, not only in a normally functioning national economy, but wherever, therefore, in a banana republic, they would laugh at a series of proposals for such a solution if they considered it the ultimate solution. We also have to say that, since they are negotiating with the authorities of the Banking Association, they are consulting, and they are still saying from government sources that the final settlement will be included in the MNB regulation, which will be published in early November, and the MNB will keep coordinating with the Hungarian Banking Association and its members. This has been going on for a long time. The only thing we can ask is for once to negotiate with the injured, with the competent advocacy, with civilians, with those who are most involved in this problem in a meaty manner. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-24-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Sándor Burány, MSZP.
u2014-09-24-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. It is quite amazing that even in the debate on the summary amendment, Fidesz advocates the problem. The essence of the problem is the weak forint. We also indicated in the general debate that we are submitting a proposal for a resolution to the House - and we have done so - in order to reduce the repayments of foreign exchange creditors to a greater extent than at present. Because while we support the submitted bill, we must not forget that the situation has become so serious because Viktor Orbán's economic policy and György Matolcsy's financial policy have ruined the forint. In 2010, Fidesz took government over to the euro with a strong HUF compared to the Swiss franc. It's all in the past now. At the moment, the forint is weaker than ever, and that is the real problem, ladies and gentlemen of the Congress. This is why the instalments of foreign exchange loans have risen to unprecedented heights. This is partly changed by the proposed legislation, which is why we will support it, but it does not solve all the problems. Like other speakers, we ourselves advocate the rapid forinting and at a rate based on a strong forint and not on the current weak forint. Of course, it is possible to argue who is to bear the burden of this, but one cannot be debated: this forint was caused by the financial policy of the wasteful spending central bank and by the unpredictable and anti-investment economic policy of the government of Viktor Orbán. This must therefore be changed in the first place. I note that if the government, together with the central bank, moves on to the road which, unlike the previous one, does not weaken, but strengthens the forint, the problem will not only be reduced, but the burden of the solution used in the forinting process will also be reduced. The other point we made in the general debate was - and I am joining my fellow Member Schiffer here - that the bill should be submitted and voted in the end without compromising financial stability. In an environment where, at the latest next year, the Hungarian National Bank will certainly be forced to raise interest rates, it will be untenable to freeze the level of the other banks' interest rates for two years. Our view remains that the interest policy of the Hungarian National Bank and the interest rate applied by commercial banks must be in line with each other. This bill has not changed, so we have tabled an amendment because, with financial stability, we are protecting the money - and not the banks - of the people whose deposits are in the Hungarian banks, and this affects virtually all Hungarian citizens one way or another. In view of them, we therefore propose that this amendment be voted in favour. To sum up, the MSZP believes that the problem is a weakened forint, but we will support the submitted bill, as it slightly reduces the burden. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-09-24-192	Thank you very much. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2014-09-24-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to say three simple sentences, just so that when we look at the matter in five or ten years' time, it is clear. 2001, Orbán-Matolcsy-Járai - this is the period when foreign exchange loans are introduced, they are approved. 2010 - My fellow Member Burány spoke about it - the time when the exchange rate for the euro was 265 HUF, when the exchange rate for the Swiss franc was 185 HUF. Now, if you look at it, you can see the difference. This resulted in an additional burden of approximately 30 to 70 per cent on the borrowers. And the third sentence is simply that if this government took its task seriously in this story, it would - confirming the words spoken - consider the immediateness of the forinting to be important and would do so. These senses of absence and these additions are included in all the things that need to be looked at together in this story. In addition, and naturally with all of this, we will also support what is in the present proposal. But that's not enough. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-24-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate in the remaining one and a half-minute time frame. [[Dr. Répássy Robert nodds.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-09-24-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm going to take the short time I still have. Ladies and gentlemen, No matter what insults they throw at the government, I'm glad they vote for the government's proposal. We have already responded to what has been said many times. The bill, as I said, will ease the life of the 1.3 million families in foreign currency loans and, by the way, in forints, by HUF 1000 billion, so please keep these numbers in mind, these facts. Of course, we are pleased to see that the government is encouraged to take further action, and the government will take these further steps. Thank you very much for the floor. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-196	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place at our sitting today. Now, Honourable Parliament, the Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of individual laws in relation to budgetary planning and the more efficient provision of money market and utility services and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. The submission is T/1271. is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Economic Committee as designated committee on the detailed discussion T/1271/12. on order number T/1271/10, and the report by the Committee on Budgets on the detailed debate You've got the right to know him by serial number. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/1271/14. the summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate, and T/1271/15. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I'll give the floor to Imre Vas, the rapporteur of the committee, in no more than eight minutes. [[14.20]]
u2014-09-24-197	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, T/1271 amending individual laws in relation to budgetary planning and the more efficient provision of money market and utility services. The Legislative Committee held its meeting on 18 September 2014. The provisions contained in the proposed legislation concern a number of areas. On the one hand, the amendments address problems that make day-to-day operation difficult by rationalising and eliminating legal uncertainty and, on the other hand, incorporate the proposals of professional and advocacy organisations with a purpose consistent with the EU directives and the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The proposal thus allows the public institutions, professional organisations and other co-operatives affected by the amendment to carry out their tasks significantly more effectively in the future by fine-tuning the legislation adopted earlier. The T/1271 in question. The amendment tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs was discussed by our committee. The Members present expressed their comments on several points of the proposed amendment, of which I would highlight two issues concerning the core of the debate, on the one hand, changes to the qualifications and traineeship requirements for the election of the President of the Public Procurement Arbitration Committee and, on the other hand, amendments to the deadline for the submission of the draft law on the central budget. The requirement for the qualification requirements of the person holding the chair of the arbitration panel shall lay down the requirements for the competence necessary for the proper performance of the tasks of the chairman. With regard to the answers to the questions raised, a significant majority of the members agreed that the three-year rule on judicial or prosecutorial practice aims to widen the rules so far, since professionals who have had a number of public procurement cases in their case-law may also come from this category and therefore have sufficient insight, experience and leadership to carry out a task as chairman of the arbitration panel. Furthermore, in the context of the debate on the submission of the draft budget, it is necessary to stress that the date of submission of the draft is not affected in any form by the municipal campaign. In support of the arguments put forward, the Committee's amendments were supported by 24 yes, 7 non-voting and 2 abstentions. In addition to the resolution on the proposed amendments, the Legislative Committee has expressed an intention to amend further, which basically correct spelling errors and provide language positioning clarifications. [[Dr. István Józsa: Wow! You should read it.]] The two amendments tabled by the Legislative Committee were voted separately by the members present. The proposal for spelling errors was supported by 24 yes, 1 non-voting and 9 abstentions, while the proposal for language-rights clarification was adopted by the Committee with 26 yes, 1 non-voting and 5 abstentions. Finally, the Committee adopted the summary report with 22 yes, 7 no votes and 2 abstentions. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2014-09-24-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. The minority opinions expressed in the committees are presented by two speakers within a total time frame of 7 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2014-09-24-199	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, a minority opinion was also formulated. All the more so, because the proposal itself was a salad law, which contained in many parts questionable proposals. I could start with party delegations related to Eximbank, or with what we said here at the plenary session, preparing for the privatisation of Magyar Posta. [[L. Simon László's intervention.]] Mr Secretary, you did not, then, read the proposal and were not here in the debate. [[L. Simon László: Yes, I read it!]] The fact that we allow certain activities to be outsourced, let the post issue to private service providers, which they will mostly carry out under their own name, is nothing more than a partial privatisation, and prepares the process in which, if this happens in the future, or if there is a government intention, the whole of Magyar Posta can also be destroyed. These were also of concern, but the amendments tabled to the Committee made this even worse. I would refer to what Imre Vas mentioned, although not in sufficient detail, and that is the condition of the qualification of the Chairman of the Public Procurement Committee. Let's be completely honest. This is a sufficiently important body, dealing with large-scale cases in order to provide for serious expertise. I am sure that, in addition to requiring serious expertise, we could choose from a lot of good candidates to lead the final committee in the future. But what do you do? And here the current regulations must also be spoken before the National Assembly. Today we need 10 years of public procurement practice, 10 years and 3 years of judicial practice. That's one of the options. Or 10 years of public procurement practice and 3 years of public procurement practice. In both cases, we can see that not only 10 years of public procurement practice, but also 3 years of judicial or public procurement, which is a quasi-judge action in the area, a requirement. So far, it's been prescribed by the law. You are trying to change this in such a way that 5 years of public procurement practice is enough, or 3 years of state leadership or 3 years of judicial or prosecutorial practice. The emphasis here is on the word " or ". So as long as it took 10 years of specialist practice and 3 years of judicial or public procurement practice to do this, in the future, let's say, a 3-year prosecutor's practice is enough, even though in the course of this, only criminal cases may have been dealt with by that prosecutor or judge. The judge may be an excellent judge, by the way, but he has no public procurement practice, but he can be appointed head of the arbitration panel in the future. The question is, who would you like to appoint? There's no other question. When similar things came up in the past, and you denied it, we had to realize that the person who was appointed did not meet the previous criteria and that was why it had to be amended. So the question is, who is Fidesz currently amending this proposal to. But we can't agree with that in itself. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-09-24-200	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Congressman István Tukacs, MSZP.
u2014-09-24-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. For our part, we have made it a subject of strong criticism in the committee that Fidesz and its government are constantly pushing the date of the preparation of the budget. There have been times when he wanted to accept it in the middle of the year, and now he wants to accept it later, obviously in view of the municipal elections. We have made it a subject of great criticism that he is playing with the laws that lay the foundations of the budget. This is not an issue of play, since the laws establishing the budget must be submitted before the budget itself, as it dictates the conditions of the budget. The Economic Committee's proposal and only the Economic Committee's proposal were before us. This means that all existing amendments, which have been formulated, have been excluded from the possibility of negotiation by the Legislative Committee, including Parliament. Therefore, we cannot say with regard to the amendments that it is unacceptable for party officials to be included in the executive officers of Eximbank. It's unacceptable for them to push the rules on savings cooperatives according to the fact that they're trying to take it into government property right now, or they're trying to turn it over to their friends. It is unacceptable to say that even figuratively, symbolically, they do not want to apologize to all those who, as teachers, were forced to accept their severance pay, say, with a 98 percent tax, which turned out to be illegal, otherwise this has to be changed, and now they have tried to vary in this law. [[14.30]] For our part, we find it unacceptable that they try to settle media matters in a salad. If Hungarian culture, Hungarian film production is important, I add, Hungarian theater art, and so on, please make a separate law for it. Finally, the way the Commission negotiated excluded the possibility of trying to examine the reasons why public companies would be welcome to be exempted from public procurement procedures. Why are they trying to centralise in this, as they did in their amendment? What's the reason the government wants to settle for everything with some kind of money in it? We believe that this is what is unacceptable in this salad law, not to mention the method of submission. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, For my part, I also said that the method of submitting an amendment is unacceptable because they want to correct spelling errors, Hungarian incompetences and bloopers. And let me refer you back to, Mr Secretary of State - which you could not have seen, unfortunately, because you were not present - that Minister Lazarus replied to an interpellation or question that a report on the RTL Club was being prepared because the Prime Minister's Office reads everything that appears in connection with Hungary. I have a suggestion: read every bill that comes here, and then you don't have to deal with spelling errors for Members, you can also deal with the content. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity, thank you for the floor.
u2014-09-24-202	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm going to ask if any of the authors would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] Yeah. [[L. Simon László: Only at the end!]] Yeah, no, it's a sign that he didn't. Thank you for warning me. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Only in the end? István Tukacs: Why?]] Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was produced by the designated Economic Committee. The Budget Committee for the debate did not present a rapporteur either, but there was a formulated minority opinion, but I do not see Mrs Hegedűs, who would like to present this. Dear Parliament, Then it is up to the Members to speak in the time frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing; first I give the floor to MEP Pál Völner, Fidesz.
u2014-09-24-203	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, As has already been said, the series of amendments contain most of the language-placed details, technical and technical specifications and additions, which in some cases ensure coherence and consistency of the various laws. I would like to highlight two amendments from the series of amendments. One is the unsolved and unsolved issue concerning the 98 percent special tax on unjustified severance payments. Here, the purpose of the amendment was to impose a higher burden than the general flat-rate burden on benefits received in respect of termination of employment that are not based on legislation or in excess of that laid down by law. Such payments may include, for example, the so-called listening money recorded in each job or individual contract of employment or termination payments to a degree other than that laid down by law. It is proposed that, in the case of these payments, the reduced flat-rate public service burden would be 75 per cent, regardless of time, so that the individual would be entitled to a refund of 23 per cent, depending on the difference between the 98 per cent special tax and the 75 per cent flat-rate public service burden, thus resolving the tax settlement of this outstanding issue. The other important amendment is the amendment of the Public Finance Act, which I highlighted, which proposes to abolish the institution instead of the possibility of submitting the municipal budget concept later. In view of the fact that, in view of the date of the general election of municipal representatives in 2014, the submission of 30 November is sometimes not necessarily ensured, but this is also justified by the different practice in terms of the content of the municipal budget concept, and given that the Public Finance Act links the information on the three-quarters of the annual situation of the local government to the presentation of the municipal budget concept, the amendment also proposes to remove the obligation to do so instead of the amendment. Under the Public Finance Act, such information will be provided to the body of representatives during the quarterly amendment of the municipal Financial Regulation. Given that the amendments are in any event intended to resolve pending pending pending pending cases which solve the problems in this area, we propose to this House the adoption of the amendments. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker, who announced his intention in advance, is Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP.
u2014-09-24-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It is typical that the House has decided on the urgent negotiation of this bill, which contains as a salad non-compatible topics such as the uploading of state-owned financial institutions with party soldiers, the stealthy preparation of the privatisation of Magyar Posta, the reduction of transparency in budgetary planning or the overregulation of school paper collection. The question must be asked whether the government is serious about the most pressing problem in Hungary today is to relax on conflict of interest rules for independent institutions. The Hungarian Export-Import Bank Act currently in force provides that the members of the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board, as well as the CEO's Party, are not to hold office in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. This would now be changed by the government so that the leadership position in the party will no longer be a conflict of interest. This is extremely worrying, because these types of institutions are still at increased risk of corruption, as they manage public money in a less transparent, less controlled market environment. We therefore consider it very important that the majority of Parliament apply strong rules of conflict of interest, and that there should not be exceptions to that. We are concerned that the government has been involved in corruption cases and will turn the boards and supervisory boards of state-owned banks into cadets of party politicians who have failed in public life. In order to hold these posts, not only does the membership of the Party no longer need to be suspended, but it does not even need to have the minimum qualifications and experience required. We believe that in Hungary there are many highly experienced, well-versed banking professionals who meet the legal requirements currently required by the law, so there is no reason to relax them. There is also no acceptable reason for the Government's intention to make public its budget proposal for 2015 at a different date than usual, only after the municipal elections on 12 October, and to submit it to Parliament, while it must be submitted to the Fiscal Council at the end of September. The amendment that would remove the possibility of submitting the municipal budget concept is also unacceptable. In view of the fact that the Public Finance Act links the information on the situation of the local government for three quarters of a year to the description of the municipal budget concept, the amendment would also remove the obligation to do so, i.e. not to inform the representative bodies and should take decisions on budgetary matters without having information on the current management situation. This does not comply with both transparent and predictable budgetary planning principles. Thank you for your attention. [[14.40]]
u2014-09-24-206	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Mr István Tukacs, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2014-09-24-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to argue in favour of the cases that we have brought up, and also to present what was the subject of the debate between us at the committee meeting on the draft. I have to do this because I think it's a round picture of this salad law. The first such question is, therefore, why is it necessary for the government to postpone the date on which the budget is drawn compared to the date of the municipal elections. It was said on the part of the Secretary of State representing the motion that we were not so naive that an election on the 12th would be influenced by a submission on the 15th. Mr. Secretary, we're not naive. All we know about making a budget is that it doesn't start on the 14th. As we have learned from Minister Varga's announcement of 1700 billion: it has begun. Therefore, the stages of drawing up a budget always mean that there will be a political debate. You want to avoid this debate before the municipal elections. That's why they want to submit a budget at the end of October, and that's why they vary with the underlying laws, because the underlying laws mean tax laws, they mean tax laws, they mean regulation, they're all the things people feel in their own skin. If, by the way, you're right, what's the need to push? I clearly remember the time when Parliament wanted to adopt fiscal corner numbers in the summer. And then he took it. And then they understood why it was such a good thing. So why don't we do this now, if it's so good? Why don't you argue against your government when you return to the original version of the budget, and now you want to push it even further, let alone bring it to the middle of the year? This type of maladministration, please, dissolve it. Because, of course, we know that it was good at the time because we needed a piece of paper that could be shown to the foreigners, investors, a lot of other things that look, look, here, we have a stable budget. This paper was needed in the summer, which is why we needed this charade, which was played by Parliament at the time, because the corner numbers were not true by December, and as a result of the countless amendments, the final form of the budget became opaque. I would also like to spend a little time in the debate about why it is considered so important that party officials can sit in, say, various positions of executive officials at an Eximbank. My fellow Member, Mr Völner, then argued that it would be a shame to lack the knowledge that some of our friends, who are otherwise party officials, represent. Well, that would be a shame, but you don't have to wear a party office. If this has been banned by the law, it has not been prohibited because it wanted to exclude great skulls from the various management functions of state-owned or state-owned banks, but because of conflicts of interest. If you think this is not incompatible now, then tell me clearly, tell me that we think this is normal, that if party soldiers sit in these chairs, but don't try to magically - and certainly not in public - that because there are such great people here, just, damn it, they're wearing some kind of party function in that party. And, of course, we are not opposition representatives, we are not that naive. The third item I'd like to spend time with is the matter of savings unions. Please tell me, honourable nationalists, honourable secretary of state, why it was so important to have strict rules on savings cooperatives at the time of public ownership, let us say in matters of statutes. 'Cause I'm sure you don't dispute that the assembly of members had one vote on the adoption of the new statutes, that they couldn't change or vote against them. If you have any doubts, please ask Secretary General Fónagy four chairs away until the time of his reply, because he is very well-informed in this matter, we have had this conversation with him several times here in the open. Now, interestingly, these strict ground rules are not so important, it's in the salad that they need to be relaxed. Now, after the nationalization, i.e. the state's downfall, the handover to the fraternity, it's all in order, after all. Therefore, I think that at least for good taste you could have been a little more waiting, if I could put it that way. The third item is the matter of the post office, which I mentioned in the minority opinion. I am not so suspicious that there is a stealth privatisation here, but I do not think it is good that public procurement rules cannot be applied in general to such large public companies. Why can't it be? What's the need to go around them? What is the need for post office to purchase financial services without public procurement? By the way, in the nationalization of the tuxedo, the post office was the state figure that allowed the acquisition of indirect state property. What's it for, and who's it for? Because if a fair and normal public procurement procedure cannot be undertaken in any of these cases, then, I think there is something very wrong with the way these public companies operate. I would like to reiterate the unfair state that, in their zeal to get voters, they introduced a 98 percent tax on severance benefits, and with this they hit a lot of unfortunates who had completed their careers, they left public services or public institutions or public institutions, and then they did not receive any severance pay, because they could not receive it. And when it turns out that this isn't okay, it's not legal - so I would stress: it's not legal - then instead of helping these people get their money, you're blocking it. Various procedures are envisaged, and here they are trying to set a flat rate of some kind, while there are general tax rules in this respect. I don't think that's fair, so when it turns out that something was done illegally, you have to say you're sorry and we're gonna help everyone get their money. And the next thing I know, I feel that, perhaps, Mr. Secretary of State, he feels close to helping the Hungarian film. However, this part is perfectly fine, but it would not be suitable instead of a salad law, in which everything is in it from the needle to the tank - it amends twenty-three different laws - to think that in the spirit of protecting Hungarian values we are trying to see how artistic works, including, of course, everything on this wide scale, can be financed and supported by the state and not by highlighting certain sections to try to establish rules in this respect. Finally, what I would like to talk about is your proposal; the only proposal that I and, if my memories do not deceive, others at this committee meeting said that this is a proposal that can be discussed, that we help the local authorities not to impose lifeless situations on them, that it should not be compulsory for the municipalities to prepare a budgetary concept during the autumn period. This is unviable, it is argued by your proposal, because the exact figures of the budget are not yet known, so the municipalities are flying blind when they make some kind of concept. I think that this proposal could have been discussed if they actually wanted to discuss it. Because it is a real help for municipalities to plan budgets when they already know the exact figures, it is, of course, a real help for municipalities when they do not have to do unnecessary work. I think that was the point that could have been discussed. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2014-09-24-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik.
u2014-09-24-209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, On behalf of the Jobbik faction, I would like to say a few points, since the Secretary of State is likely to comment only in the final part of the debate, and when I gave the Commission's minority opinion, he shook his head at a very important part, perhaps one of the most important parts, and this is the preparation for the privatisation of Magyar Posta. [[14.50]] I would like to mention this in advance, and we will, of course, hear what the Secretary of State will say in his reply. Unfortunately, I do not look as positive towards the Fidesz government as my fellow Member, Tukacs, who said that he does not assume that his privatisation is being prepared for the Hungarian Post. I am afraid that I seem to be more skeptical about the events of the past period, and I will also tell you why; this is unfortunately supported by events in Budapest. We would like to begin with the story that, if I remember correctly, Pál Völner said in the general debate that what the government had submitted to the Parliament - I am referring to the regulation of the Hungarian Post - is not expected of Brussels. This is an opportunity that the Hungarian Parliament can include in the regulation, but this is not expected from the European Union by the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian Government to live with such a motion and such a decision. This is a very important point, because we are doing something that cannot be blamed on the European Union, that the European Union has held a gun to the forehead of the Hungarian government to do this. I have made a note of what activities are that become outsourcing, let us be aware of this: collection, processing, transportation, delivery. In the case of Magyar Posta, these are the main activities which define a postal service; I must say that the additional activities carried out by the post office are second-rate compared to this. In addition, as I said, after outsourcing, companies that will be given a chance in some way can do this in their own name, so in many cases the logo of the Hungarian Post does not appear either. It is also included in the Act, and I would like to point out that the fact that Magyar Posta can operate as a universal postal service provider is guaranteed by 31 December 2020 on the basis of the current legislation. What happens after that, we don't know. Of course, the Secretary of State can say that this will be extended afterwards, and then there will be no problem, but at the moment this designation is in the law. In Budapest, too, despite the fact that privatisation is something to be rejected, and we can agree with that, the BKV bus business, bus services were privatised in the same way as they are now attempting to outsource certain postal services. And there we could see that the service providers who joined this business do this business more expensively than the BKV could at the BKV at the time. I am afraid that if someone is going to join this business as a private contractor in the case of the post office, they will certainly not do this because they want to make a payment, and therefore I do not think that the Hungarian State and Magyar Posta will benefit financially. So these facts, these are written down, so I think that there are legitimate concerns about what will happen after 31 December 2020 on the one hand, this is one of the issues, we do not see that coming, or why it is necessary to do this outsourcing if the European Union does not expect us to do so. In addition, I would not repeat the rules on party offices, because before me, the LMP and MSZP factions explained in detail why it is not good to delegate party soldiers to the board of directors and board of Eximbank and, in the case of the Public Procurement Decision Committee, I also talked about why the various professional criteria are dangerous if they are dismantled. It will not guarantee that a person who has the necessary expertise can be appointed to lead the arbitration panel. I would like to mention one more thing, and this is the legislation governing the conduct of public procurement under a centralised procedure, which can be regulated by a regulation for the government and authorised by a regulation. This will be a kind of opportunity for budgetary bodies, business organisations or even public foundations. We do not see exactly what the government is preparing for, who it wants to create an opportunity for, and, as we could put it, a business, but unfortunately, as I said in the Commission's minority opinion, in these cases, in the case of implementation, we see that public money and the public interest in general suffer only harm. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-24-210	Thank you very much. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I will now ask the rapporteur, once again, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] You have the floor in a ten-minute time frame, Secretary of State L. Simon László.
u2014-09-24-211	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would just like to respond to some of the things that have been said, as I have already responded to most of the questions raised at the Legislative Committee, although some of them have been brought up again by my fellow Members - as a prayer mill they are constantly talking about the same thing, but we bear it with dignity and answer it. My fellow Member Staudt spoke about the post office and about the preparation of the privatisation of the post office, while in his second speech he himself acknowledged that since the universal service obligation remains with the Hungarian Post until 31 December 2020, it is not possible to talk about privatisation. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: That's why they're preparing him!]] Even we do not know what will happen after 31 December 2020 but I am pleased with the confidence that it assumes that we will decide on the mail in December 2020. This means that you are predicting that in the 2018 election period we will win the election that we thank you for, we are happy, and I trust that, if not with you, we will have someone to discuss it with in Parliament. But to be clear, it is very important for the government to have access to postal services in the whole country with 100% coverage; this cannot be fully covered by the current postal network. I could give you personal examples: the postmaster of a very small village is my aunt, a handler of a deliveryman who delivers half a job. We see how this works in Hungary at the moment... [[Mrs. Loránt Violinist intervenes.]] Can I say it? I listened to you. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: I'm listening!]] Of course, the involvement of partner organisations does not mean and cannot mean that universal services are damaged. It is therefore clearly the government's intention to improve the quality of service. Since my fellow Member has set the example of BKV, I would like to note it quietly so that we can think about it - I remember when I was a university student at the time when the BKV bus on bus 9 was so flawed that the piston suddenly appeared in the passenger compartment, and all the passengers had clean oil on their clothes. So it is possible to say at first that the service performed by subcontractors cost the BKV more than if it had carried out the same activity on its own bus, but subcontractors were required to provide the service with newly acquired buses. So consider how much the same service would have cost to BKV if you had to buy the buses instead of the 15-20-year-old buses. That's why it's not clear what you said about the BKV, but it's not my place to protect the BKV. Congressman Staudt raised the issue of the arbitration committee once again. I told you at the TAB meeting, and I'm telling you right now: there is no guarantee that a public procurement expert, who has failed numerous procurement procedures for several years, would be a better and better expert than an excellent lawyer with 3-4-5 years of judicial experience. So, in itself, it's not a guarantee of anything. In our view, many members of the Hungarian judiciary have prepared for such a task, if there is any effort to become a member of the arbitration panel in this area. Congressman Toukacs operated again with the dates of the budget submission. It should be clear to everyone that the deadline for submitting the draft budget law is 15 October, according to the legislation currently in force. After the Member realized this after the meeting of the Legislative Committee - because I said there was some time between the 12th and the 15th to submit the law, so we are not pushing the deadline for the submission of the budget law for the municipal elections to the 30th of October - he has argued differently here, and now he has said that we want to save ourselves the debate. No, Congressman, we do not want to save the debate, the budget is being prepared, and it will, of course, be before this House by 30 October. [[15.00]] When it comes to changes in municipal budget planning, you say - that they are now much more subtle than the Legislative Committee, because there they considered this change to be outrageous - that this could have been discussed, he said. I am also here to inform the House that the law is changing at the request of local government professional organisations, so we have just discussed it with the relevant professional organisations, and they have asked us to make a change. Eximbank, delegation of party officials - this has been raised by several. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not bringing István Csillag here, who was a prominent of the SZDSZ to the Eximbank. But you don't think that a member of a party, if any, has some function, means that he doesn't know anything, because he is issuing a negative certificate of himself. We think it's about expertise, and if a person with party functions knows something, and we want to delegate his expertise to the Eximbank or somewhere else, then we can do that and appreciate his expertise, and not disqualify someone based on what his political affiliation is, by the way. The only thing I have written to myself about savings banks, Mr Tukacs, is that we could have waited for good taste and submitted it later. Why, if we're gonna do it later, aren't we gonna do the same thing? Would the direction of the proposal be different? Or if we had submitted it later, wouldn't you have opposed the content of the proposal? Your logical reasoning is simply self-discovery, so I do not wish to respond specifically, because we have already done so in part on the TAB. Finally, allow me to say something about the film law. Ladies and gentlemen, This salad law, like many other salad laws, contains small changes to a lot of living legislation. In the case of these minor amendments, there is often a changed or new EU directive or a decision by the Constitutional Court on the basis of these changes. You don't really think that we should have tabled such a small amendment to the film law in the form of a separate law, as a few years ago we adopted a comprehensive amendment to the film law and a completely new film financing system, which replaced the Hungarian Motion Picture Public Foundation, which raised 8 billion dollars in debt from taxpayers' money or at the expense of their money, and instead we created the Hungarian National Film Fund. We have created a new, state-of-the-art form that the film industry considers to be equally legitimate at the moment. Everyone is applying for this film fund and has received support from countless films which, by the way, do not meet my personal tastes and values or the tastes and values of many of my fellow Members. So democracy actually prevails, pluralism prevails and artistic freedom prevails. But such an amendment would now be a luxury in a separate package of laws. If we had submitted a separate law on such a matter, Mr President, he would have stood up in Parliament to explain why it is necessary to initiate such a complicated negotiation procedure, and why they did not like to attach themselves to other cultural or economic laws. I just wanted to point out that my fellow Member's position is, as it was before, determined by his sitting point. I would ask my fellow Members, together with the amendments, to support the bill before you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-212	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place in today's decisions. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain public service laws, the new summary report and the amended summary amendment proposal follow up as a derogation from the adopted house rule. Szilárd István Németh and György Balla's Fideszes MEPs' own motion T/466. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Economic Committee as designated committee on the detailed debate T/466/14. was given to them. Today's amendment amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/466/21. The new summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate is T/466/22. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. For these, a total of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi, rapporteur of the committee, within a maximum of eight minutes. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-09-24-213	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Honourable Parliament that the Legislative Committee at its meeting today is T/446. It discussed a bill amending certain public service laws and presented 24 yes, 5 no and 4 abstentions amended amendments to it. The need to present today's amended summary amendment was due to the fact that the Legislative Committee has thus created the possibility for the government to produce legislation covering and regulating the entire claim area in the near future. The tangled situation over the last decade, I think, is quite ripe for medicine. With regard to the summary amendment proposal and the whole of the bill, I would like to point out that no one can now doubt that one of the primary objectives of Hungary's government is the effective protection of consumers' rights. In recent years, a number of legislation has changed to achieve this goal, which has strengthened the domestic consumer protection system. The protection of consumers' interests is a clear and clear expression of the reduction of the rent. The bill submitted also commends the work of our regime group, who have put together the experiences of the past year and a half in the norm, based on the request of tens of thousands of citizens. On the basis of the comments, legislative clarification is also necessary to extend the scope of the Consumer Protection Authority, to create an effective control of invoicing practices and to implement the reduction of the costs. The amended summary amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee also contains these clarifications, whether it concerns the website operation of public services, the precise definition and conditions of the consumer rapporteur's activities or water utility and chimney sweep services. I believe that the situation is quite clear, and the government and the Fidesz-KDNP fraction remain on the consumer's side to the fullest extent possible, and with the standard text presented, they provide further evidence of this. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support the proposal tabled in order to continue with the reduction of the costs. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-214	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi. Minority opinion expressed in committee in a 7-minute time frame [[Interjection: two?!]] István Tukacs will introduce you.
u2014-09-24-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for the opportunity and for the clarification. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, These amendments, which are before us in the form of summary reports, imply that the debate on this amendment package took place in two rounds in the committee. I would like to paint the circumstances under which this gives reasons for our position on the amendments and the tabled proposal. When, last week, the Legislative Committee was very quickly completed - my fellow Members said it was still warm - it was presented before the committee meeting to give its opinion as a package of amendments, it would not in itself have justified us not to try to form a professional opinion on its content. [[15.10]] It is because there have been several legislative proposals before the House on the reduction of the rent, since this package is directly and indirectly linked to the reduction of the rent, so we thought it would have been right if we had been able to give a professional opinion. However, the method of procedure that took place in the last session of the Legislative Committee in relation to the amendments in the present presentation is unacceptable from our point of view. Dear House, I do not recall in Parliament's practice that the committee should wait half an hour for the amendment of the amendments and then give its opinion on this. It was this unfair situation which, at the last committee meeting, has told us that we are very sorry, but in these circumstances, we cannot give an opinion on the proposal and, in particular, on its amendments. Today, however, there was a continuation. I do not know whether I say the term precisely - it is also an amendment to the amendment of the legislators, which included that the regulation which deals with debt management should be removed from the proposal submitted, because one of the present authors and the representative of the government saw it as appropriate. He felt it was the right thing to do, because a comprehensive bill on debt management was being drafted. To my question, how did the author learn that there was such a bill, to say the least, why he was not informed throughout the summer, while this proposal was before us, the reply from the rapporteur was that this signal came from government circles. The government representative present, if I am correct, said the Secretary of State that their wallet does not deal with the preparation of this law; which, let us be honest, fellow Members, is a somewhat strange response. I don't want to picnic now, because it's not good when I don't have the partner I just had a fight with, but he said that, of course, when it comes to details, we demand a full bill, otherwise we'll have it backwards. Now, this case is the other way around. The authors have found that there is something they would like to take out of this draft, and they said that this is justified by the fact that there will be a comprehensive bill on it. Of course, I think this justification is possible, and I have outlined another way in this regard. It could have been left in it and said that without such forced march and haste, when comprehensive regulation appears, it will also modify this part. This was unacceptable from the point of view of the author. At the same time, and with this, I would like to conclude on the manner in which the trial is conducted, and thus on the basis of this hasty, indisciplined legislative process, the author himself said that our criticisms in this regard are justified, he has no real answer or rejoinder. Therefore, I would like to say in the minority opinion, my fellow Members, that we do not have a problem with the process of reducing the rent, or we do not have a problem with the idea of reducing the rent, but we have a problem with this type of legislation, and that is why we are abstaining at the time and not voting. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-09-24-216	Thank you very much, Congressman Tukacs. I now give the floor, if you wish, on behalf of the authors, to Mr István Németh Szilárd. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a total of 10 minutes to speak in the debate and to present the possible closing phrase. That's how you're gonna put the time in. Thank you very much, Congressman.
u2014-09-24-217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm gonna try to speak this time, and if you don't have a reason, I'm not gonna tell you the closing word. I'd like to connect with my colleague Tukacs. We discussed this bill at the end of June and at the beginning of July. At the time, I concluded that, in addition to the fact that, of course, we want to serve the interests of consumers in this bill, the fact that we have incorporated into the bill has already gone through a very serious social debate. I have asked everyone, all my fellow Members, professional organisations and interest representatives, but through television I have also asked the honourable citizens to share this with us if they have anything to add and supplement. I'm going to give you some data on this soon. I have not received such a proposal from my fellow Members in the last two and a half months. Of course, they can criticize the fact that we are grinding and changing this bill at the last minute. But believe me, as Congressman Gabriella Selmeczi said, the aim of today's amendment was to change the so-called debt management market, which leaves a lot to be desired - who are involved in this claim management market as consumers, they can tell us what kind of problems they face every day - in full. That's what the Justice Department is working on, by the way. We can even define the principles, because this must be uniform, comprehensive and, of course, consumer-friendly. We are trying to define the consumer-friendly nature by broadening the possibilities of state control, state intervention, of course, so that businesses, who are on the other side of the market, will not suffer any damage. I am talking, of course, about decent domestic businesses. Well, as many have said, this law is intended to serve the interests of consumers, to increase the interests of consumers in the public service market, which is also characterised by a reduction in overhead costs. We know very well that in 2010, when the government took over, we were confronted with data that completely shocked us. Between 2002 and 2010, the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments gave the opportunity to increase gas and electricity prices, domestic gas and electricity prices 15 times. This has helped to obtain energy in the free market at a cheaper price per cubic metre or kilowatt hour than otherwise in the protected universal service market. Therefore, even companies that had little to do with this service market were able to push into this service. And people had to pay such a hard face, they understand, I'm talking about sacs, they had to pay the outstanding income to the companies, the foreign-owned companies, which crippled the Hungarian families. Nearly 150 billion in debt was accumulated, this market was characterised by a set of unpaid checks, and based on Eurostat data, we Hungarians paid the highest gas price and the second highest electricity price in the European Union. I had to do something. The first thing we had to do was freeze these prices. And when the country's budget, the country's economic situation and employment situation, when the country began to emerge from the deep pit in which they had been left, there was an opportunity to launch a real policy of reducing costs, in fact to reduce the burden on families, and to achieve what we can now proudly say is ours, that one of the cheapest domestic energy in Europe is being paid by Hungarian families. This required three serious steps, all three steps taken. Technically, we've only got one ahead of us. The price of gas will decrease by almost one third, more than one quarter of the electricity price, and now by another 3.3 percent from 1 October. In addition, the government intervened in six areas, which was also a significant reduction in expenditure for the benefit of families, Hungarian families and Hungarian consumers. As Congresswoman Selmeczi has defined here, the Hungarian Government, the current Hungarian Government, has made a clear belief in the protection of Hungarian families and the representation of the interests of Hungarian consumers. In addition to energy prices, the prices of waste transport, drinking water, sewerage, sniffed sewage, bottled gas and chimney sweep have also decreased. [[15.20]] In fact, it can be said that the price of chimney sweeping and garbage transportation - since the cards had been properly mixed before - has decreased by up to 40-60 percent in some places. Let's say the price of chimney sweep in Budapest decreased by 44 percent after taking this measure. The cost reduction also had very positive effects on consumers' lives, as people believed that they saw that there was no reduction for decades. They saw that the government kept its word here, which was paid in April and May 2014 by the Fidesz-KDNP government once again receiving two thirds, and by winning a sweeping victory, it could send national interests, Hungarian interests and representatives of Hungarian interests to the European Parliament. It was clear to people that they hadn't solved their consumer problems in a long time - changing watches, billing, overinvoicing, billing frequency, everything that was a pick-pocket issue - we could solve in some way. This is how serious measures have been taken, such as the determination of the service provider's penalty: after an unpaid reduction of the rent or an inadequately implemented or inadequately informed reduction, the service provider is obliged to pay consumers up to HUF 10 000 in penalty. We've encountered hundreds of thousands of such accounts. These cases were settled daily in reality, in practice. But, for example, we raised the HUF 100 million penalty item to HUF 500 million, indicating to the service providers that the game here is practically out of control, you can't corn with people's lives. This service market must also function as a real market. The one who has all the other overpowers, because this overpower was given to them by the socialist-free democrat governments a decade and a half ago in contracts, and they must pay back nicely, and in Hungary, in this market for service providers, they must provide services that are affordable for Hungarian people, for Hungarian families, for their salaries, and for forms of supply, such as pensions, and they must receive safe and predictable services for these people. This extra profit can no longer be played out in the country. In a decade and a half, almost 1100 billion forints were officially taken out, of course, from the unofficial part we don't know, but we need to use it here, turn back the security of supply, and give back the money that they had taken out of their pockets for decades. The current bill also strengthens the role of consumers and the interests of consumers. I have two things to say. She has already mentioned, among other things, clarification of the situation of consumer rapporteurs or information. I am talking, of course, about the website issue; they are defined as: how, how, what information, what frequency should be connected to consumers. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the bill before us with your vote for the benefit of Hungarian families and Hungarian consumers. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-24-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you that at the end of the debate, you have one minute and eight seconds to say the closing word. Erzsébet Schmuck has made a statement, but first I will ask if anyone on the government's side wishes to speak. [[Dr. János Fónagy reporting.]] Yeah. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2014-09-24-219	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to announce that the Government is in favour of the summarised amendment. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-24-220	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to tell the Honourable Parliament that the Economic Committee, as a designated committee, does not wish to present a rapporteur. Representatives' speeches will follow in the time frame on the agenda. There is no opportunity for a two-minute comment during the debate, and now for the pre-notified speaker, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, LMP.
u2014-09-24-221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The law entitled "amendment of certain public service laws" and, in particular, its amendment, which summarizes pro-government corrections, gives an accurate picture of what is important for Fidesz and the government in the replay they have been playing for two years. First of all, the account picture: this is the manyth fidesz proposal, in which their previous texts are amended in order to make the free advertising of renaissance even more spectacular. It does not bother the proposers for a minute that utility bills remain opaque and incomprehensible to most consumers. Interestingly, the benchmark is always last year and not 2010, otherwise it would turn out that the rent is now more expensive than it was when the government changed in 2010 and there would be nothing to talk about. Secondly, it is very exciting who and under what conditions will be able to train future consumer rapporteurs. On this issue, the press has already written in detail that otherwise it is useless, but the statutory training, the statutory market of which offers hundreds of millions of HUF in revenue, has been tailored to a company controlled by one of Szilárd Németh's direct employees in addition to Fidelitas. Szilárd Németh is the present draft of the law. So it is understandable why Szilárd Németh said that protecting the reduction of the rent is the biggest stake in the elections, where so much private interest is at stake, there really must not be any mistake. The text deals with the rules on electronic invoicing and certification of invoices in a huge extent. Here, the most detailed regulation seems completely incomprehensible, given that no one has ever heard of a mass loss of account in Hungary. However, the press also found an explanation for this. Here, too, the new regulation has been tailored to a single company, which is also a close business in Fidelitas. So, here's the proposal on the rent points. These are so important - in particular, these bills are also mentioned in the proposal - that according to the spring and summer data of the Ministry concerned, one and a half people visit them every day, so they deserve the special attention. To sum up, since the spring session, you have sacrificed a multitude of representatives and expert hours to pass a bill whose main consequence is to redefine the account image once again, for the sake of a more effective self-advertising of non-existent overhead cuts, to clarify the rules on no-one-visited tariffs and put in a position of new Fidesz businesses, making services that no one would need if the law didn't provide for them. Meanwhile, they are deeply silent about the fact that there are hundreds of thousands of people living in the country who do not receive any reduction in their bills, because they have absolutely no money for fixed-line energy or water services, that dozens of service providers are impossible, because they cannot manage state-multiplied special taxes and charges at the same time, and that they are artificially trying to lower prices, and that the government is planning up to pennies to support the thermal insulation and energy modernisation of the apartments. However, this would be the only sensible solution to the sustainable reduction, which also stimulates the Hungarian economy. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-09-24-222	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr László Kiss's statement follows, MSZP.
u2014-09-24-223	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The first thing to talk about is that we stayed in the general debate of the law, that Szilárd Németh, the rapporteur, encouraged the Members of Parliament to make their proposals if any amendments were to be made. The reality of this comparison is that, although the author has just stated that this has not come, the reality is that the Hungarian Socialist Party has put two amendments, otherwise the representatives of the LMP, on the table. The fate of all these is known. These were not discussed in substance. When my fellow Member, Tukacs, talks about the fact that when you have amended the house rules in such a way that the substantive debate must take place in the committees, it is at least facial cynicism for you to say that you welcome these proposals when, even during the Commission negotiations, we cannot see that there is any dialogue between you and the other Members. [[15.30]] I think it is only important to say this as an add-on, a word is not true that anyone here on your part has been receptive to any proposal. The second is who takes the position in this debate. I must state that the Hungarian Socialist Party is constantly on the Hungarian consumer's side on this issue, was on the Hungarian consumer's side and remains on it. This means that we support all the government's efforts to protect the consumer from the current situation, but we do not support any ambition that, on the basis of false reasons, leads consumer protection to over-burrification, as this proposal does. This is an important example of the unreal non-reputable piece of legislation that you are willing to represent on an ongoing basis, because the joke that comes to you here is that you are walking like Moricka to escort the older lady to the other side of the road when she did not want to cross over. When you talk about protecting the interests of the consumer, it is based on a large number of feedback, I can almost see hundreds of thousands of consumers, who are, by the way, trembling to make the specifications for consumer protection training. Obviously, tens of thousands of consumers, hundreds of thousands of people, demand that the account be modified to twenty. Millions of consumers are protesting to ensure that you operate the tariffs and that you create more and more over-bureaucratized rules. If you put the consumer rapporteur's training into the Internet's search engine, you can see that there are many of these, yet you consider it very important - of course you claim that, according to the mass requests of consumers - to regulate a training in a newer and newer way within an inappropriate framework. The question is, of course, that the costs that will be incurred in dealing with the training side of consumer protection, these additional costs, which will be collected by companies close to you, when will be returned to consumers, which you so often and gladly talk about. Similarly, in this debate, it turned out that your Secretary of State told us that you have a lot of complaints coming to you, a lot of complaints coming to the Consumer Protection Authority about the activities of service providers, so the good government is still holding hands with the national force and solving them. We've already mentioned two of these points, which I'm sure is a huge public interest, but let's look at another one. The Secretary of State acknowledged in the debate that most of the complaints were received in relation to the clarity of the invoice. Indeed, it is our experience, and I, the individual representative of Óbuda, that a number of complaints are coming to me in the direction that people do not understand the accounts. What do you do? Of course, we need to change the account image, because if we change the account image, if you can re-operate with the fonts, or change the legislation, and now you can put the real amount of the reduction in the amount of the rent on the account with coloring according to the latest colors of Fidesz, then the voters will surely know what is in the invoice. Of course! You guys don't really think that's true. Then I would also have liked to have heard that, while all the contents of the invoice are contained in government legislation which you have created, when you will amend these laws so that a simple average Hungarian person, such as myself or our voters, can understand these accounts. We don't see any ambition. So a rule that applies to the most frequent requests of consumers, that is to say, to receive an invoice that they understand, well, there is no regulation in this law, in the proposal before us. There is a regulation on invoicing, and there are all kinds of complex standards to comply with these accounts, which will obviously bring great joy to consumers as well, that we do not know how to comply with their otherwise unread accounts. Bravo, I think this is definitely a good direction, but that doesn't make one person better at interpreting these accounts. I would like to ask you to look at what people are really looking forward to from you, to the bills that everyone can settle on, not three doctorates in economics and four technical degrees. Very important things have been said here, such as the fact that there are results in Budapest as well, the chimney sweep fee has been reduced by 44 percent. If we ignore this little thing, then I think it would be time for the government to respond to the practice that the chimney sweeping company operating by the Municipality of Budapest, in its hands, when it learned that its fees were likely to decrease, why it called on the population to do a "action " chimney sweep procedure all over Budapest and III, when it learned that its fees were likely to decrease, I think it would be time for the government to respond to the " sale " chimney sweep procedure in Budapest and III. In the district, too. How could it be that the company in the management of the Metropolitan Government was deceiving the population, making hundreds of thousands, millions, as you say, profiting? How could that happen? How could you, by reducing the fee for chimney sweep, not ensure that this service is provided in many counties? How could this happen? That is why the Hungarian Socialist Party says that we need real action instead of a rhyme. In the event that a substantive proposal is put before us, for example, there are indeed parts of the proposal that protect the consumer, we will support them. But please don't pour sauces on them that come from all kinds of slops, either in billing or in training, this is unworthy of the proposal. Thank you for listening.
u2014-09-24-224	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik.
u2014-09-24-225	Thank you, Mr. President. I promise you, I won't be as long as my former MSZP colleague. I would like to draw attention to two things here, before the Parliament's plenum. My fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, said that the government and the Parliament, and since the Parliament has taken this decision, will return the stolen goods, so that consumers will benefit from the damage that these service providers have done, if I remember correctly, in this way. You can only return this in an up-and-coming system, so after the reduction of the rent. By the way, we have said that the fact that they waited until the end of the cycle with this decision actually means that these increased charges could be billed by the service providers for four years. That was just a comment. On the other hand, what was said and happened at the Legislative Committee, I would like to make a substantive suggestion. What has happened is that some of the proposed amendments have been withdrawn by the Fidesz majority and our fellow Member, Balla, who submitted them, on the grounds that there is a need for new legislation covering the entire area of debt management and that the government has such a vision, and that this will therefore be dealt with in a legislation to be submitted in the near future. This would not be a problem in itself, but at the committee meeting it was suggested that proposals which were otherwise forward-looking, which were formulated in these amendments, should not enter into force until then, since who knows when this will be presented. The presenter and the author did not have any specific information as to when the government would present this, but in this context, there are no proposals to assign a claim if there is a premium of over one year. [[15.40]] This would have been an important guarantee rule that would not be introduced now. Maybe in a few weeks or a few months, yeah, because it's kind of like a dog's dinner. We would have preferred that it be introduced now and that it might be included in the new law. You have done something more than once that a law has been amended, despite the fact that in the near future the proposal has been recommenced and you knew that, say, you will come up with a new code, whether I can think of the Civil Code or the Criminal Code, but even at the last minute, you have made amendments to the new code in the old laws. In this connection, I would like to mention one more thing, which is already a little bit part of the present proposal, but it makes up an old wish. I see that if, by the way, the claim management area is to be re-regulated, then it is time to re-establish the need to re-regulate the enforcement system. And we very much hope that if the government starts thinking or a legislative change fever in this direction, then the institution of independent bailiffs will be put on the table. We would like non-profit-oriented businesses to operate in this area, otherwise in many cases with inadequate qualifications or, in our view, inadequate qualifications. Legal qualifications have just been introduced in the case of bailiffs, which, of course, we are glad that this has been introduced, but only in an emerging system, in the case of current executives, does not give a time limit during which this should be done, and we also believe that it may be important to require an examination if the executioner decides on so many human fates and makes very serious decisions. So we want the government to think about this. As a public function, implementation would take place on a non-profit basis, just as court decisions represent a state task. We believe that the implementation of judicial judgments is also a public task which must be given to undertakings not in a profit-oriented private sector, but to the State itself, by setting aside profits and in such a way that they can be called to account, can be reviewed and only the laws in force and the existing legislation can be enforced in any way. Moreover, this would be in the best interests of debtors and, by the way, even those seeking enforcement. That's what I'm asking the government to do. We're gonna give you all the help you can get. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-09-24-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else wants to make a comment in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate within the remaining one minute and ten seconds. You have the floor.
u2014-09-24-227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just want to answer two essential questions. One of them, who say that people are paying more than before the reduction of the rent, I would say only one figure: the price of the gas increased from HUF 49 to HUF 152 between 2002 and 2010, by 206 percent, by three times, and since then by HUF 113 per cubic metre, by 26,5 percent and by one third. The numbers, as embarrassing as some of my fellow Members of the opposition may be, cannot be debated. The other, who said that there was no opportunity to comment on the merits, participated in the debate: Waterworks Association, Association of Public Security, Association of Hungarian Energy Dealers, Association of Hungarian Public Service Providers, Professional Association of Hungarian Teleheaters, district heating... - Main brush, Main gas as companies participated in the negotiations, National Consumer Protection Authority, Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. The working group held 15 working groups, and my colleagues dealt with the law and proposals for about a thousand hours of work. Thank you very much. Once again, I would like everyone to support the bill regardless of party standing. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-09-24-228	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place at our sitting today. Dear Parliament, As on the agenda, I'm going to take a break for 16 hours and 30 minutes. We will then continue our work with a general debate and decisions. (Sunning: 15.45 - 16.43 President: László Fat Note: Attila Gelencsér and Nándor Gúr)
u2014-09-24-229	Dear Parliament, Before the next item is discussed, this House must decide on a matter of sitting. Vice-President János Latorcai spoke today at the meeting of the Polish Senate and today wishes to participate in the Hungarian parliamentary debate on the proposal. Today, there will also be meetings. However, according to the provisions of the House Rules, this can only be done if the Parliament agrees. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it will contribute to the chair of the Parliament during the debate on the next proposal by Vice-President János Latorcai. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I find that the visible majority of Parliament has agreed that the Vice-President should chair the Parliament during the debate. Dear Parliament, The general debate and the final vote on the proposal for a resolution entitled "The 70th anniversary of Henryk Sławik's death and the 40th anniversary of the death of József Antall Senior, " will follow, in line with the derogation from the adopted house rule. The independent motion tabled by and by the Polish minority advocate Lászlóné Csúcs H/1270. I'm sure they've come to know him. At its earlier meeting, the House Committee classified the proposal as a nationality agenda. Dear Parliament, [[The synchronized interpreter starts translating into Polish.]] On behalf of all of us, I very much welcome Mrs Maria Pańczyk-Pozdziej, vice-president of the Polish Senate, who is sitting in the decorative box. , late Prime Minister József Antall's wife and family members (Applause.) and the heads of the diplomatic bodies concerned. It is my great pleasure to welcome you to the solemn adoption of this historic resolution. Dear Parliament, In this debate, I will give the floor to Mrs Csúcs, my colleague, the Polish ethnic advocate. I'd like to ask Mrs. Speaker to come to the speaker's stand. In view of the fact that part of the speech is in Hungarian and part of it is in Polish, I ask Members and our dear guests to use the interpretation equipment. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2014-09-24-230	[[He begins his speech in Hungarian.]] Dear House, It is a great honor for me to speak as a Polish minority advocate at the plenary session of the Hungarian Parliament for the first time. On the one hand, because the festive occasion is a beautiful display of the birth of the representation of Hungarian nationalities in this House and, on the other hand, because in my speech today, I can remember the common heroes of Poland and Hungary. The Parliamentary resolution, which I presented to you together with Speaker László Kövér, and which I ask you to accept, is intended to capture the heroic humanity shown in one of the terrible ages of Hungarian and Polish history. [[He continues his speech in Polish, accompanied by simultaneous interpretation.]] Sanowna Izbo! Wzajemna sympathia między narodem polskim a węgierskim istnieje od dawna, ale otrzymała dwukrotnie speciesficzny acent w dwudziestym wieku: po raz pierwszy, gdy oba narody znalazły się naprzeciw niszczycielskiej potędze najpierw Niemieckiej Rzeszy hitlerowskiej, a następnie imperium radzieckiemu. Mr Podczas drugiej wojny światowej nie mogło dojść - z powodu nacisków zewnętrznych - do spektakularnego wsłości politycznego między państwem węgierskim i polskim, ale tradycyjna przyjaźń historyczna okazała się większą siłą moralną. Przejawiało się to przede wszystkim w tym, że Węgry odmawiały wszelkich Łań przeciwpolskich. Gdy 1 września 1939 roku hitlerowskie Niemcy, a następnie 17-ego też Związek Sowiecki zaatakowały Polskę, Węgry nie tylko nie uczestniczyły w tym, lecz przygotowały się do przyjęcia uchodźców. Zamierzały zapewnić nie tylko schronienie, lecz możliwość swobodnego, pełnowartościowego życia. A to zawiera oprócz zakwaterowania i troski materialnej, zabezpieczenie możliwości oświaty szkolnej, kultury i podjęcia pracy. Oczywiście nie mogłoby dojść do takiego wsparcia, gdyby tej sprawy - bez spektakularnych objawów - nie poparł regent Miklós Horthy, a Ministerstwem Spraw Wewnętrznych nie kierował Ferenc Keresztes Fischer, trakujący nazistów z antypatią. Na czele wyżu odpowiedzialnego za uchodźców polskich stanął József Antall, który - wsłpracując z emigracyjnymi organizacjami polskimi - zorganizował w obozach przeżych dla uchodźców opiekę socjalną, oświatę i słżbę zdrowia. Pomagał także w przerzucaniuuchodźców zorganizowanym. polski Rząd na Uchodźstwie, w ramach milk akcji do wiosny 1940 roku blisko 70 tysięcy polskich żołnierzy opuściło węgierską ziemię do Francji i przyłączyło się do armii polskiej walczącej na zachodzie. Jesienią 1939 roku formowały się legalne i podziemne organizacje polskich uchodźców wojskowych i cywilnych, wśród nich Komitet Obywatelski d/s Opieki nad Uchodźcami Polskimi, na czele ze śląskim socjalömöktym polykiem, dziennikarzem Henrykiem Sławikiem. József Antall zapoznał się z nim w tymczasowym obozie uchodźców w Hidasnémeti, stąd nawiązała się między nimi przyjaźń i wsłpraca, kóra spotkała się z życzliwą pomocną siłą węgierskiego społeczeństwa. Dziękuję narodowi węgierskiemu za to poparcie. Mr Współanie ówczesne ma wpływ do dziś na obecnie żyjące Hellenia obu narodów. Specyficzne zadanie stanowiła opieka nad polskimi uchodźcami pochodzenia żydowskiego, poneważ w stosunku do nich powinno było się zastosować przepisy " ustaw żydowskich " obowiązujących na Węgrzech, czego nie uczyniono. Wręcz, dla dzieci funkcjonował w Vác tajny sierociniec wraz z szkołą. Opieka nad uchodźcami polskimi na Węgrzech rzeczywiście była w okupowanej Europie rzeczą niespotykaną. Po 19 marca 1944 roku niemieckie organizationy okupacyjne natychmiast zlikwidowały wszelkie formy opieki nad polskimi uchodźcami. József Aresztowano Antalla seniora. Podobnie aresztowano ukrywającego się Henryka Sławika, który miał okrazję kilkrotnie opuścić Węgry, ale pozostał, bo miał zadanie i dlatego oddał swoje życie w 1944 roku pod Murem straceń na terenie obozu koncentracyjnego Mauthausen. W świetle historii przyjaźń polsko-węgierska zawsze daje bohaterów. Z lat drugiej wojny światowej przykład Józsefa Antalla i Henryka Sławika może nas umocnić. Zwiększa znaczenie uchwały parliamentu fakt, że władza komunistyczna chciała ich skazać na zapomnienie zarówno w Polsce, jak i na Węgrzech. Dlatego ma duże znaczenie obecna inicjatywa, iż ę uchwałę tekstem o równej treści, w tym samym dniu uchwali Węgierskie Zgromadzenie Krajowe i Senat Rzeczypospolitej. Za realizację tej uchwały wyrażam wdzięczność w imieniu Polonii na Węgrzech tu obecnej pani wicemarszałek Marii Pańczyk-Pozdziej, panu wiceprzewoniczącemu Jánosowi Latorcai, marszałkowi polskiego senatu i przewodniczącemu Zgromadzenia Krajowego - i wszystkim, którzy pomagali w tej sprawie. Sanowna Izbo! Gdy pojedziemy na cmentarz Farkasréti, możemy przeczytć na grobowcu Józsefa Antalla seniora napis, co w więźniarce Henryk Sławik szepnął Józsefowi Antallowi: " Polonia semper fidelis " - cyli: Polska zawse wierna. My, wszyscy, Polacy i Węgrzy możemysobie tylko życzyć: pozostańmy wierni pamięci naszych bohaterów! Dziękuję, że Państwo mnie wysłuchaliście. Interpreter [[On-site Hungarian translation of Dr. Lászlóné Csúcs' Polish minority speaker's speech in Polish]] The mutual sympathy between the Polish and Hungarian peoples has long existed, but it has received special emphasis twice in the 20th century: first, when both peoples faced the devastating power of the Hitler German and then the Soviet Empire. During World War II, due to external constraints, there could not have been spectacular political cooperation between the Hungarian and Polish states, but traditional historical friendship was a greater moral force. This was shown above all by Hungary's refusal to do any anti-Polish activity. And when Germany in Hitler and then the Soviet Union attacked Poland on 1 September 1939, Hungary not only did not participate in this, but was prepared to receive Polish refugees. But he wanted not only to provide shelter, but also the possibility of a free and full life. This includes, in addition to accommodation and financial care, provision of education, culture, and job opportunities. Of course, such support could not have taken place - if the case had not been supported by Governor Miklós Horthy, and not by Ferenc Keresztes-Fischer, who was repulsive to the Nazis. József Antall was the head of the Polish refugee department, who, in cooperation with Polish emigration organisations, organised social care, education and patient care in refugee camps. He helped the sub-settlement organised by the Polish government, which, until the spring of 1940, left Hungary with nearly 70,000 Polish soldiers, joined the Polish army fighting in the West. In the autumn of 1939, legal and underground organisations of Polish military and civil asylum, including the Polish Civic Committee, were formed with Henryk Sławik, a Social Democratic politician and journalist from Silesia. József Antall met him at the temporary camp in Hidasnémet, where their friendship and cooperation grew, which met with the self-active help of Hungarian society. Thank you to the Hungarian people for this support! Today, this cooperation has an impact on the generations of the two peoples living today. The care of Polish Jews who fled to Hungary was a special task, since they should have applied the Hungarian Jewish laws, which they did not. In fact, for children, the secret Polish Jewish orphanage and school in Vác worked. Polish refugee care in Hungary was indeed unique in the occupied Europe. However, after 19 March 1944, the occupying German authorities immediately eliminated all forms of Polish asylum. [[16.50]] József Antall Sr. was arrested. Similarly, the hiding Henryk Sławik, who would have been able to leave Hungary many times, remained, because he was responsible for sacrificing his life at the execution wall of the concentration camp in Mauthausen in 1944. History shows that Polish-Hungarian friendship always gives heroes. From the years of World War II, we are strengthened by the example of József Antall and Henryk Sławik. The parliamentary decision before us only enhances its importance that they were condemned to oblivion by the communist power both in Poland and in Hungary. This is why this initiative is of great importance and that this resolution will be adopted by the Hungarian Parliament and the Polish Senate on the same day with the same text. I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Senate Maria Pańczyk-Pozdziej, Vice-President János Latorcai, the Presidents of the Polish Senate and the Hungarian Parliament, who have helped in this. Dear House, If we go to the Farkasrét cemetery, id. On the tombstone of József Antall, we read the inscription Henryk Sławik whispered to József Antall in the car: " Polonia semper fidelis, " or Poland is always faithful. All we Poles and Hungarians can wish for is to remain faithful to the memory of our heroes! Thank you for listening. [[Long-lasting, big round of applause.]] Speech by Dr. Lászlóné Csúcs, Polish minority speaker: * * Dear House, The mutual sympathy between the Polish and Hungarian peoples has long existed, but it has received special emphasis in the 20th century, twice: first, when both peoples faced the devastating power of the Hitler German and then the Soviet Empire. During World War II, due to external constraints, there could not have been spectacular political cooperation between the Hungarian and Polish states, but traditional historical friendship was a greater moral force. This was shown above all by Hungary's refusal to do any anti-Polish activity. And when, on September 1, 1939, Germany of Hitler and then on the 17th, the Soviet Union attacked Poland, Hungary not only did not participate in this, but was prepared to receive Polish refugees. But he did not just want to provide shelter, but also the possibility of a free and full life. This includes, in addition to accommodation and financial care, provision of education, culture, and job opportunities. Of course, such support would not have been possible if, without the spectacular manifestations, the case had not been supported by Governor Miklós Horthy and not by Ferenc Keresztes Fischer, who had a grudge against the Nazis, led the Ministry of Interior. József Antall was the head of the Polish refugee department, who organized social care, education and patient care in refugee camps in cooperation with Polish emigration organisations. He helped the sub-settlement organised by the Polish government, which, until the spring of 1940, left Hungary with nearly 70,000 Polish soldiers, joined the Polish army fighting in the West. In the autumn of 1939, legal and underground organisations of Polish military and civil asylum, including the Polish Civic Committee, were formed with Henryk Sławik, a Social Democratic politician and journalist from Silesia. József Antall met him at the temporary camp in Hidasnémet, where their friendship and cooperation grew, which met the self-active help of Hungarian society. Thank you to the Hungarian people for this support! Today, this cooperation has an impact on the generations of the two peoples living today. The care of Polish Jews who fled to Hungary was a special task, since they should have applied the Hungarian " Jewish laws'which they did not do. In fact, for children, the secret Polish Jewish orphanage and school in Vác worked. Polish refugee care in Hungary was indeed unique in the occupied Europe, but after March, 1944, the occupying German authorities immediately eliminated all forms of Polish asylum. József Antall Sr. was arrested. Similarly, the hiding Henryk Sławik, who would have been able to leave Hungary many times, remained, because he was responsible for sacrificing his life at the execution wall of the concentration camp in Mauthausen in 1944. History shows that Polish-Hungarian friendship always gives heroes. From the years of World War II, we are strengthened by the example of József Antall and Henryk Sławik. The parliamentary decision before us only enhances its importance that they were condemned to oblivion by the communist power both in Poland and in Hungary. This is why this initiative is of great importance and that this resolution will be adopted by the Hungarian Parliament and the Polish Senate on the same day with the same text. I would like to thank the vice-president of the Senate Maria Pańczyk-Pozdziej, Vice-President János Latorcai, the Presidents of the Polish Senate and the Hungarian Parliament, who have helped in this. Dear House, If we go to the Farkasrét cemetery, id. On the tombstone of József Antall, we read the inscription Henryk Sławik whispered to József Antall in the car: " Polonia semper fidelis " - that is, Poland is always faithful. All we Poles and Hungarians can wish for is to remain faithful to the memory of our heroes! Thank you for listening.
u2014-09-24-231	Dear Parliament, It will now be the speech of the vice-president of the Polish Senate, which will be made possible by way of a derogation from previous house rules. I would ask my fellow Members to continue using the interpretation equipment. Madam Maria Pańczyk-Pozdziej, vice-president of the Polish Senate, please come to the speaker's stand. [[Maria Pańczyk-Pozdziej appears on the speaker's stand. Applause.]]
u2014-09-24-232	" Sanowni Państwo! Okazuje się, że bardzo trudno jest wdrapać się do wyżyny węgierskiego Parlamentu. Panie Premierze, Panie Marszałku, Panowie Wicemarszałkowie, Szanowni Państwo! Panie Przewodniczący! In this regard, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed of the European Parliament and of the Council. Dzisiejsze wydarzenie, cyli przyjęcie uchwały Senatu Rzeczypospolitej Polskiej i Zgromadzenia Narodowego Węgier, to niezwykle istotny element w naszych wzajemnych relacjach. Jest dowodem na to, że przyjaźnie zawarte w czasach historycznie trudnych są najtrwalsze i procentują po wsze czasy. Upamiętniamy dziś ludzi, którzy swą niezłomną postawą wpłynęli na los tysięcy Polaków, doświadczonych agresją z Zachodu i Wschodu. 75 lat temu Henryk Sławik - Polak ze śląskim rodowodem - tak, jak ja - i József Antall senior mieli odwagę przeciwstawić się potężnemu agresorowi i nie godzić się na eksterminację tysięcy niewinnych ludzi. Podjęli ryzyko, za które Sławikowi przyszło zapłacić najwyższą cenę. Został zamordowany-Niemców 23 sierpnia 1944 roku w Mauthausen. Naszym wielkim zobowiązaniem jest pamięć o ich bohaterstwie. Ci dwaj świetni organizatryzy za patriotyczny, ale i naturalny obowiązek uznali oddanie wszystkich umiejętności swoim ojczyznom i drugiemu człowiekowi w potrzebie. W dzisiejszych realiach pewnie brzmi to górnolotnie, ale oni tacy byli. Swą postawą i cinami potwierdzili, że w sposób trudny dziś do zrozumienia traktowali powierzone im zadania, których scenariusz układała nieprzewidywalna wojenna rzeczywistość. Kto, wiedząc o planowanej okupacji Węgier. Niemców i mając w kieszeni wizy dla siebie, żony i 14-letniej córki, nic wyjechałby do Szwajcarii? Pewnie większość by tak zrobiła, ale nie Sławik. Nie mogłem przecież pozostawić ludzi powierzonych mojej opiece - tak tłumaczył swą decyzję córce Krysi w kryjówce niedaleko Balatonboglár, gdzie się ukrywał. In this regard, the Commission considers that the measure in question constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the József Antall - prawnik, członek Niezależnej Partii Drobnych Gospodarzy - pochodził z herbowej rodziny slacheckiej i reprezentował inną opcję polyczną niż Sławik, ale nie miał żadnych problemów z nawiązaniem z nim bliskich kontaktów. A te z urzędowych szybko stały się partnerskimi i przyjacielskimi. I przetrwały w najtrudniejszym momencie, gdy trzeba było, ratując życie przyjacielowi, wziąć na siebie odpowiedzialność. Antall podkreślał na każdym kroku, że życie zawdzięcza Sławikowi. Nasze parlamenty przyjmują wspólną uchwałę w wyjątkowym roku. Roku niezwykle ważnych rocznic. Stulecia wybuchu I wojny światowej i 75 lat od wybuchu II wojny światowej, kataklizmów, które zmieniły świat, nasze myślenie i do dzisiaj - w wielu aspektach - poszostają otwartą raną. W Polsce wspominamy także 70-lecie Powstania Warszawa, a na Węgrzech 70. rocznicę tragedii węgierskiego Holocaustu. Jednocześnie nasze kraje i narody wspólnie świętują 25 lat odzyskania wolności, 15 lat członkostwa w Sojuszu Północlantyckim i 10 lat członkostwa w Unii Europejskiej. Te wszystkie wydarzenia, niezwykle ważne dla naszych narodów date, są ściśle powiązane i w wyjątkowy sposób unaoczniają nam bliskość i podobieństwo losów Polaków i Węgrów. To co bez wątpienia łączy naszé narody to umiłowanie wolności, bo wolność to słowo klucz w naszej przyjaźni. Wielokrotnie to z polskiej strony podkreślaliśmy. To właśnie w imię tej wolności i przyjaźni podejmowaliśmy w historii odważne Łania. Tak postrzegamy też dzisiaj Józsefa Antalla i Henryka Sławika. Mamy napwdę wspaniałą historię, z której możemy i powinniśmy być dumni. Nawet jeżeli tak wiele w niej momentów trudnych i często do dzisiaj bolesnych. Taka historia jednak to również ogromne zobowiązanie, zobowiązanie do zrozumienia marzeń o wolności innych narodów, do wspierania takich aspiracji i dzielenia się naszym doświadczeniem. Bo nam się przecież udało, nawet jeżeli z czegoś nie jesteśmy w pełni zadowoleni. Staliśmy się pozytywnym przykładem w jakże skomplicowanym świecie, który dzisiaj chcą naśladować inni. Powinniśmy to zrozumieć i wspierać. 75 lat temu nasi węgierscy Przyjaciele pokazali, że nawet w najstraszniejszych, najtrudniejszych okrutnych czasach, możemy pozostać wierni wartościom i przyjaźni, która łączy nasze narody od wieków. To nie były pute słowa i gesty, to była ogromna, realna pomoc, dzięki której dziesiątki tysięcy Polaków, w tym polskich żydów, miało szansę przeżyć, a wielu z nich mogło na wszystkich frontach wojny kontynuować walkę o wolną Polskę. Walkę, którą zakończyliśmy razem z Węgrami, niestety dopiero w 1989 roku. Pamiętamy o tym geście przyjaźni. Za ę pomoc dziękujemy! Niech słowa Polonia semper fidelis, wykute na grobie Józsefa Antalla seniora na cmentarzu Farkasréti, będą wskazówką dla młodego Hellenia, tak by now generacje Węgrów i Polaków - również i w przyszłości - mogły się wzajemnie wspierać, wsłpracować i rozwijać. Przesyłając Państwu pozdrowienia od Senatu Rzeczypospolitej Polskiej, od marszałka Bogdana Borusewicza pragnę zapewnić, że o naszych bohaterach Henryku Sławiku i Józsefie Antallu seniorze pamiętać będziemy po wsze czasy, a wiedzę o ich bezprzykładnym poświęceniu przekazywać będziemy także młodym helyeniem. I na zakończenie chciałam podziękować marszałkowi Jánosowi Latorcai za to, że był dziś w Warszawie, w senacie, gdzie nasza uchwała została przyjęta entuzjastycznie. Gdzie otrymał owacje na stojąco. Chciałam mu podziękować za to, że nad jej treścią mogliśmy wspólnie popracować. Chciałam podziękować Państwu, węgierskim parliamentaryzystom, że treść milk uchwały mogła dziś przedstawić zzecznik narodowości, pani Halina Peak. Wrescie jestem wzruszona. Czuję się, jak w Senacie Rzeczypospolitej Polskiej. Za moimi plecami jest polski orzeł. Niech stoi na straży naszej polsko-węgierskiej przyjaźni. Dziękuję. Interpreter Ladies and gentlemen. Turns out it's kind of hard to get up to this high pulpit from here, so I'm sorry for the breath. Mr. President. Mr. Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen. I consider it an honor to speak before you on a mission so important to our nations. This event, i.e. the adoption of a decision by the Senate of the Republic of Poland and the National Assembly of Hungary, is an extremely important element in our mutual relations. Evidence that friendships with historically difficult times are the most persistent and always very useful. Today we remember people who, with their unwavering attitude, influenced the fate of thousands of Poles suffering West and East aggression. Seventy-five years ago, the Polish of Silesian origin - as I did - Henryk Sławik and József Antall Sr. dared to confront the aggressor, the great aggressor, and they refused to accept the destruction of thousands of innocent people. They took the risk, so Sławik had to pay the highest price for his actions. On August 23, 1944, as the lady before me said, she was executed in Mauthausen. It is our duty to preserve the memory of their heroicness. These two great organizers considered it not only a patriotic, but also a self-evident duty to serve their country, their knowledge and their troubles. I'm sure all of this sounds pompous today, but that's what they were. Their attitude and actions have proved that they are now in a difficult way to relate to the tasks entrusted to them, the scenario of which was written by the unpredictable war reality. Who, being aware of Hungary's planned German occupation, would not have gone to Switzerland with a visa in their pockets, issued in the name of their wife and daughter? Most people would probably take advantage of it. Sławik didn't do that. " I couldn't leave the people in my care alone, " he explained, his daughter's decision at her hideout near Balatonboglar. His wife, Jadviga, who had already been arrested by Hitlerists, was in a prison in Budapest. József Antall, a lawyer and member of the Independent Small Farmers' Party, came from a crested noble family and represented a completely different political direction than Sławik. However, this did not prevent them from getting close to each other at all. The official relationship soon became a partnership, later a friendship, which persisted even in the most difficult moments when the need was to take responsibility to save a good friend. Each time, József Antall emphasized that he owes his life to Sławik. This joint resolution will be adopted by our parliaments in an exceptional year, in the year of extremely important anniversaries. A hundred years ago World War I broke out, seventy-five years ago World War II. Two cataclysms that have changed the world, changed our thinking and, in many ways, still hurt as an open wound. [[17.00]] In Poland we also remember the 70th anniversary of the Warsaw uprising and in Hungary the 70th anniversary of the tragedy of the Hungarian Holocaust. At the same time, our countries and peoples are celebrating together the 25th anniversary of their return to freedom, the 15th anniversary of their NATO membership and the 10th anniversary of their accession to the European Union. These events, the dates so important to our nations, are closely linked, and in exceptional ways illustrate the similarity and proximity of the Polish and Hungarian fates. What definitely connects our nations is freedom. Freedom is the key word of our friendship, which we have often stressed from the Polish side. In the name of this freedom and friendship, we have undertaken brave acts throughout history, and we look at József Antall and Henryk Sławik with such glasses today. We can and should be proud of our truly wonderful history, even if there are so many difficult, often painful moments in it. However, such a history is also a huge obligation. It obliges us to understand the desire for freedom of other peoples, to support their aspirations in this way, to share our experiences with them, because we have succeeded, even if we are not always fully satisfied with everything. We have become a positive example in this complicated world, and today others want to follow our example. We need to understand them and support them. Seventy-five years ago, our Hungarian friends showed that even in the most terrible, difficult and cruel times, they remained true to values and to the friendship of the peoples for centuries. These are not empty words, they are not empty gestures, they were a huge, tangible help, which gave tens of thousands of Poles, including Polish Jews, a chance to survive, and many of them were allowed to continue fighting for free Poland on the various fronts of the war, the fight that we had unfortunately completed with the Hungarians in 1989. We won't forget this friendly gesture. Thank you for your help. Let it be in the cemetery of Farkasrét - I was there yesterday - on the tomb of József Antall the Elder, " Polonia semper fidelis " as a guide for the young generation, so that new generations of Hungarians and Poles can continue to support each other, work together and develop. I now give you the compliments of the Senate of the Republic of Poland and Mr Bogdan Borusewicz. I would like to assure you that our heroes, Henryk Sławik and József Antall Sr. will always be remembered and their unprecedented sacrifice will be presented to the younger generation. Finally, a personal matter: I should like to thank Vice-President Latorcai for going to Poland today to the Senate, where the resolution was adopted emotionally, standing, with an ovation. Thank you for letting us work together on the text of this draft. I would like to thank you, the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament, for the text of the resolution, which was given by the Polish minority advocate Halina Peak. Finally, I am touched, I feel as if I am in the Senate of the Republic of Poland, behind me is the Polish eagle, which stands as the guardian of our Polish-Hungarian friendship. Thank you. [[Orbán holds hands with Maria Pańczyk-Pozdziej, who is coming down from the platform. It's a long applause.]] Maria Pańczyk-Pozdziej, vice-president of the Polish Senate: * * Ladies and gentlemen, It turns out that climbing the Hungarian Parliament is a very difficult task. Prime Minister, Mr President, Vice President, Ladies and Gentlemen! Mr. President. I am honored to be able to speak before you on a mission so important to our nations. Today's event, the adoption of a resolution by the Senate of the Republic of Poland and the Hungarian Parliament, is an extremely important element in our mutual relations. Evidence that friendships in historically difficult times are the most lasting and always beneficial. Today we remember people who, by their unwavering conduct, influenced the fate of thousands of Poles who suffered from West and East aggression. Seventy-five years ago, the Silesian-born, as I did, were Henryk Sławik and József Antall Senior, who dared to confront the mighty aggression, and did not accept the destruction of thousands of innocent people. They took the risk, so Swamik had to pay the highest price for his actions: the Germans executed him in Mauthausen on 23 August 1944. It is our duty to preserve the memory of their heroicness. These two great organizers considered it not only a patriotic, but also a self-evident duty to serve their country and their people in trouble with all their strength and knowledge. I'm sure all of this sounds pompous today, but that's what they were. Their attitude and actions proved that they now had a difficult understanding of the tasks entrusted to them, the scenario of which was written by unpredictable war reality. Who, being aware of Hungary's planned German occupation, would not flee to Switzerland with a visa in their pockets, issued in the name of their wife and daughter? The majority would certainly take advantage of this opportunity, but not in the same way, Sławik. "But I could not leave the men in my care alone," explained Krysia's decision in her hiding place next to Balatonboglar. His wife, Jadwiga, who had been arrested by Hitlerists, was already in a prison in Budapest. József Antall - a lawyer, a member of the Independent Kisgazda Party - came from a crested noble family and represented a completely different political direction than Sławik, but this was no obstacle to close contact. The official relationship soon became a partnership and friendship, which lasted even at the most difficult moments when it was necessary to assume responsibility in order to save a good friend. Each time, József Antall emphasized that he owes his life to Sławik. This joint decision will be adopted by our Parliaments in an exceptional year. It's a very important anniversary year. A hundred years ago World War I broke out, 75 years ago in World War II. World War II, two cataclysms that have changed the world and our thinking, which, in many ways, still hurt like open wounds. In Poland we also remember the 70th anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising and in Hungary the 70th anniversary of the tragedy of the Hungarian Holocaust. Our countries and peoples also celebrate together the 25th anniversary of the restoration of freedom, the 15th anniversary of NATO membership and the 10th anniversary of accession to the European Union. These events, the dates so important to our nations, are closely linked, and in exceptional ways illustrate the similarity and proximity of the Polish and Hungarian fates. What undoubtedly connects our nations is freedom, because the key word for our friendship is freedom, which we have often stressed from the Polish side. We have undertaken brave acts throughout history in the name of this freedom and friendship. This is the way we look at József Antall and Henryk Sławik today. We can and should be proud of our truly wonderful history. Even if there are so many difficult, often painful moments. However, such a history is also a huge obligation, an obligation to understand the desire for freedom of other peoples, to support their aspirations in this direction, and to share our experiences with them. Because we have succeeded, even though we are not always fully satisfied with everything. We have become a positive example in this complicated world, and others want to follow our example today. We need to understand and support this. 75 years ago, our Hungarian Friends showed us that even in the worst, most difficult and cruel times, we can remain true to values and friendships that have connected our peoples for centuries. They were not empty words and gestures at the time, but a huge, tangible help that gave tens of thousands of Poles, including Polish Jews, a chance to survive, and many of them continued to fight for free Poland on the various fronts of the war. The fight, which we unfortunately completed with the Hungarians only in 1989. We won't forget the friendly gesture. Thank you for your help. Be at the Farkasrét cemetery, id. The inscription Polonia semper fidelis carved on the tomb of József Antall is a guide for the young generation, so that new generations of Hungarians and Poles can continue to mutually support each other, work together and develop. When I give my regards to the Senate of the Republic of Poland, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, I assure you that our heroes, Henryk Sławik and id. We will always remember József Antall, and we will pass on our knowledge of their unprecedented sacrifice to our young generations. Finally, I would like to thank Vice-President János Latorcai for going to Warsaw today, the Senate, where our resolution was adopted emotionally. Where he stood up, he was greeted with ovation. I would also like to thank you for helping us work together to develop its content. I would like to thank you, Hungarian Members of Parliament, for the fact that the rapporteur was the minority advocate, Halina Peak. Finally, the sound of emotion. I feel like I'm in the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Behind me with the Polish eagle. This eagle preserves our current Polish-Hungarian friendship. Thank you.
u2014-09-24-233	I would like to thank the Vice-President for her speech and to give the floor to Minister Zoltán Balog to present the Government's position.
u2014-09-24-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Vice President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First, allow me to thank Mrs Maria Pańczyk-Pozdziej, Vice-President of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, on behalf of the Government, for accepting our Speaker's invitation and speaking so emotionally to us. The Parliamentary resolution proposal to be negotiated by this House commemorates the memory of two people, Henryk Sławik and old József Antall, who have not only remained human inhumanity, but have also become a symbol of uncompromising humanity, Christian neighborly love and Polish-Hungarian friendship. Henryk Sławik met the father of the first freely elected Prime Minister of Hungary after the change of regime in a refugee camp in Miskolc, old József Antall. The Hungarian public and the traditional elite both had great sympathy for the Poles and had solidarity with them during the dual occupation. Henryk Sławik, with the help of old József Antall, performed a heroic act by issuing false documents to save thousands of Jewish Poles from the gas chambers and other horrors of concentration death camps. It is no coincidence that Henryk Sławik is called the Polish Wallenberg, who, along with old József Antall, received a plaque on the wall of the world's righteous in Jerusalem. On 19 March 1944 Hungary was also under German occupation. In addition to several anti-Nazi members of Hungarian public life, Henryk Sławik was also arrested. Sławik refused to reveal the name of his companions, including József Antall, despite the brutal tortures, so he was taken to a concentration camp where he was hanged at the order of the Gestapo. The resting place of his remains is still unknown. Sławik's wife managed to survive the horrors of the Ravensbrück concentration camp, and their daughter was hidden by the Antall family. It is typical of the shortcomings of historical memory that we Hungarians and Poles learned of the heroism of the Swedish Raoul Wallenberg and of the Swiss Carl Lutz who despised death before the activities of Henryk Sławik and old Antall József who could save even more Jews. The existence of communist dictatorships in Eastern Central Europe was a factor in the counterfeiting of history and the abolition of the past, and their attempts to manipulate the present were not accompanied by the heroic act of patriotic and philanthropic Christian men. In 1946 there was a street named after Henryk Sławik for a few days in Katowice, but then the Communist authorities removed the street sign and systematically erased its name from the memory of the population. Like Poland, the Jewish saving humanity of József Antall, a noble and small farmer, was not to be mentioned in Hungary for decades. Henryk Sławik and old József Antall's life path is not just a typical XX. It is also a symbol of the greatness of the brotherhood of the Eastern Central European nations and their ability to do together. The friendship of Henryk Sławik and old József Antall is an outstanding example for the future. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the motion for a resolution. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-09-24-235	Dear Parliament, The group's speeches will now take place within a five-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to István Németh Szilárd, who wishes to speak on behalf of the Fidesz Group. [[17.10]]
u2014-09-24-236	Mr. Speaker! Madam Vice President, Dear Mrs. Klara. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank Vice-President Maria Pańczyk-Pozdziej and President Lászlóné Halina Csúcs for the very meaningful, emotional and brotherly words that could be said here in Parliament. CHAPTER XX Throughout the history of the century, we commemorate two exceptional personalities, which have been neglected for a long time, between the walls of the Hungarian Parliament and the Senate of the Republic of Poland. The Hungarian Parliament bows its heads and pays its respects to the Polish Wallenberg, Henryk Sławik, and the Polish father, Antall Sr., who died 40 years ago. Henryk Sławik and Antall Sr. saved the lives of more than 5,000 Jews, and thanks to their cooperation with Polish military authorities, tens of thousands of officers and soldiers could reach the allies. As a result, the Gestapo arrested both of them, and Henryk Sławik paid the highest price: on August 23, 1944, in the concentration camp in Mauthausen-Gusen, the Nazis murdered him. Before he was executed, however, he saved another life, for during the interrogations he consciously assumed full responsibility. This was József Antall Sr., the fellow fighter of the rescued man. However, the cruel turn of fate is that one of the greatest figures of Hungarian memory died completely forgotten 30 years later, on July 24, 1974. With regard to their lives, their deaths, their fates, their memory, we can ask: what responsibility do the country's current leaders have in their hands by the opportunity in question? What human qualities are needed in the most terrible times? Faithfulness, responsibility, honor, loyalty, the love of our nation and fellowman, unselfishness and courageous action. Dear Parliament, Dear Polish Friends! Let us ask ourselves one more question: could we, in similar circumstances, risk our greatest value, our lives, for alien and unknown people? Unfortunately, the world is not peaceful around us today. A few hundred, maybe a few thousand kilometers from us are still fighting, people are being tortured, killed, or ripped out of their homes because of their ethnic, religious affiliation. However, before the world and our faith in it is lost forever, fortunately, the Good Lord always gives us such self - sacrificing heroes as József Antall and Henryk Sławik the Elder. We Hungarians are also a fortunate nation because we are connected with the Polish people by historical friendship. Antall and Sławik's heroism became a symbol of this brotherhood. However, both the Polish and the Hungarian nations were captured in the pliers created by the Communist Soviet Union and Nazi Germany. A series of misfortunes continued to plague both peoples during the decades following World War II. We have seen what socialism is. Polish history is confusing XX. In commemorating its history in the century, we cannot forget the mass murder in Katyn, when in the spring of 1940 more than 15,000 Polish officers were killed by Soviet Bolshevik leaders. So what is our job in this peaceful age of opportunity in which we live? The worthy remembrance, one of the most expressive manifestations of which is the exhibition opened by the Speaker László Kövér and Vice-President Maria Pańczyk-Pozdziej, Vice-President of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, which commemorates Polish officers slaughtered in Katyń in the hall of the House of Representatives. Dear Parliament, The proposal for a resolution before us now mentions further events of respect. Thus, in Silesia, the 2014 Henryk Sławik Memorial Year and the Polish-Hungarian Friendship Day will be celebrated next year in March 2015 in Katowice, as part of which the Hungarian and Polish heads of state inaugurate Henryk Sławik's monument and the older Antall József. In the meantime, we pay tribute to these two outstanding personalities of the Polish and Hungarian people, who have become heroic symbols of unselfish friendship with other peoples. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-09-24-237	Dear House, I now give the floor to Mr László Kiss, who will give his speech on behalf of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2014-09-24-238	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Vice President, I think that we are at a historic moment, at a moment when our people's friendship is bound to another link. I am grateful to the authors that this chain, which connects our peoples, will continue to be woven. Dear House, It can be said that in the thirties, an idea emerges in Europe that is actually about the harsh desire of power and the sweeping cult of harsh violence in a national robe, hidden behind passwords. This idea, the idea of Nazism, is incompatible with life, humanism, national values, in fact it defines itself against them. Hitler's Germany's first victim was Poland. Poland was the first victim when Hitler had never seen hatred in Europe before. As is known, on September 1, 1939, the Nazi war machine launches an attack on Poland, starting World War II. Although Hungary's participation has been constantly forced by our German " allies, " the government has remained irresistible, and has even been a constant opportunity for the large number of Polish refugees who appear at our borders to continue living here under appropriate conditions. The Polish military resistance was doomed to failure from the beginning, but this did not reduce the heroism of the Polish army and the Polish people, and even thousands, tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of Polish soldiers and civilians have sacrificed their lives fighting Nazi tyranny to save their country and their country. To receive the large number of Polish refugees, József Antall is appointed as the refugee government commissioner, more than 100,000 Polish refugees found homes in Hungary from the war, and many of them continued to fight Nazism again from Hungary. The Committee for the Protection of Polish Refugees is set up very early, and Sławik will be the head of this committee. This committee organizes virtually all areas of life, which is a powerful word at an age where, as Miklós Radnóti wrote, an excellent Hungarian poet who was also murdered, " man is so debased that he killed voluntarily, with pleasure, not by command. " At a time like this, these two people organize Polish rescues, schools, secondary schools, and organize university training for the fled Polish patriots, Polish persecuted. Polish refugees of Jewish or Jewish faith are also arriving in Hungary. As an eternal black point in Hungarian history, a so-called second Jewish law of 1939 would not have given them the opportunity to be accepted, but József Antall and the Hungarian administration involved in this process provided them with false documents, including the Hungarian laws at the time and the German-friendly opposition at that time. Thanks to this, thousands, tens of thousands of people escaped. Of course, this situation will change following the German occupation of Hungary. On 19 March 1944, both Sławik and all the committee leaders will be jailed, and then Mauthausen will die in hell. József Antall escapes, and then arrests him on Gestapo Hungarian soil. The activities of Henryk Sławik and József Antall Sr. are a very good example of the friendship between the Hungarian people and the Polish people, the friendship that worked in the shadow of dictatorships, the bayonets. [[17.20]] It shows that there will always be those who remain true to their principles in the shadows of the passions whipped by loud passwords and bayonets, and who remain true to humanism and solidarity. For this reason, the MSZP supports the proposal of the President and the spokeswoman, this proposal for a decision. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-09-24-239	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to János Latorcai, who will speak on behalf of the KDNP Group.
u2014-09-24-240	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Vice President Maria Pańczyk-Pozdziej Madam! Mr. Prime Minister, Dear Ambassador, Dear Mrs Klára, Dear fellow Members, Be as heroic a lover of your country as he is, who endures suffering. These words were left for the daughter of Antall József Henryk Sławik, then 15 years old, as a message and guide to Krystyna. I believe that this sentence is not only a fatherly warning to a teenage girl, not only a tribute to a friend to a hero, but also a guide to all of us today. In 1939, the sky fell over Europe. The Molotov-Ribbentrop pact has sealed Poland's fate. First on September 1st, the German and then on the 17th, Soviet aggression wiped Poland off the stage of history. Tens of thousands of Polish refugees to the only possible place in Hungary. Henryk Sławik, of Silesian origin, arrived in Hungary with the first refugees, soon found contact with József Antall, who, during the bloody years of the Second World War, managed to save tens of thousands of Polish refugees from certain death. As a guest of the Polish Senate, I was honoured to participate today in the morning debate of the resolution, and I also had the opportunity to meet the former Polish students of Balatonboglár, who owe their lives to these two great people. The shocking stories and attachment of older people to Hungary, the Hungarians, indicate that our thousand-year friendship is not only a historical legend, but also a flesh-and-blood reality. József Antall Sr. and Henryk Sławik Slavik Sr. have not yet honoured the two nations. The joint proposal for a resolution adopted today by the Polish Senate and the Hungarian Parliament is a decisive step in this direction. I would like to thank the Polish Senate, in particular its President, Bogdan Borusewicz and Vice-President, Mrs Maria Pańczyk-Pozdziej, for her initiative and work, as well as the supportive intervention of Speaker László Kövér and Speaker Mrs Lászlón Csúcs. It is the duty of all of us, honourable Members, to take the message of the actions of these two great men, breaking through the veils of ignorance and silence, and beyond, because the martyr Henryk Sławik and József Antall, senior, saved not only people but also human honor at an age when it took the risk of their lives. Their common supranational mission is XX. In the middle of the 20th century, the unprecedented historical pair of stars on the Earth of Europe, whose saints in the Middle Ages from Adalbert to Hedwig, its kings III. From Boleszláv to Bathory, hero soldiers from Sobieski's soldiers to Bemig and Dembinszky who fought alongside us during the 1848-49 Revolution and War of Independence, or even to the '56 revolutionaries, have always been able to bring light to the darkest night of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, The memory of József Antall Senior and Henryk Sławik also warns us that understanding and helping each other in critical situations is particularly important. Today, our countries face many challenges that go beyond our borders. The globalization of the world and the resulting transformation of Europe, including the role of the Visegrád Four, the security and economic consequences of the Ukrainian crisis, or the strengthening of Islamist extremists, the increasing persecution of Christians, are all issues to which we cannot respond effectively alone. Only by working together together, we can alleviate problems and dangers by providing practical help to one another. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are all committed to this in the future. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-09-24-241	Dear House, The Jobbik Group intends to use the time frame available to it with the subsequent speeches of two Members. First, I give the floor to Congressman Adam Mirkóczki.
u2014-09-24-242	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Guests! It is always a joy and great experience to meet proposals that quote the unbreakable friendship of these two peoples, these two nations, the Hungarian and the Polish, the great stages of their thousand years of common destiny and the eternal mementos of the future. If you're too festive or too biased and how should I put it? - I would like to be sublime, then I could say that the present proposal is a perfect example of the paradox that, although we were not fighting on the same side in the terrible second world burn, perhaps if I were to exaggerate it, the expression that, although we were not fighting on the same side, we helped each other more and got more from each other than perhaps from our allies. I do not wish to repeat the many important and sublime excellent ideas that have been said to me one by one, with which we all agree, I would like to draw attention and our common concern for the future, not to be contented with living only from our past, living from the great examples and constantly limiting ourselves to remembering their deeds, their way of life, their example - all of this is important and necessary minimum - but from all of this fantastic content and inexhaustible treasure mines, which the great historical personalities, saints, kings and many of these two nations have given us, also oblige us to bear the same responsibility in the present, to launch programs that the younger generation, perhaps not even born generation, should all be as committed to us in the last thousand years, as all of the two countries or members of the two nations. Therefore, I encourage everyone, regardless of party standing, to continue to develop cultural, economic, educational and social programmes that will help only the identity of the young, future generations, the loyalty of the two countries to each other, so that the next thousand years are at least as friendly and as strong a bond between the two nations as the last thousand years. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2014-09-24-243	Dear House, Before continuing the series of speeches, I will give the chair to Vice-President János Latorcai and thank him, on behalf of all of us, for representing the Hungarian Parliament during the trial of the presentation in the Polish Senate. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2014-09-24-244	Once again, I welcome my fellow Members and give the floor to Mr President Novák of the Jobbik Group. [[17 .30]]
u2014-09-24-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am very pleased that we can now believe in a parliamentary resolution in favour of Polish-Hungarian friendship. However, this proposal goes a little further, among other things commends the entire course of József Antall Sr., when they put it this way: " The Parliament of Hungary bows down to the unbreakable spirit, courage and self-sacrifice of the two heroes. " Dear Parliament, "True or nothing about the dead," says the Latin saying. Thus, if József Antall is older, his whole life course and spirit are considered unbreakable by this proposal, I need to clarify the image in order to be credible, nuanced somewhat. It doesn't matter what kind of full life paths we set for the growing generations. József Antall Sr.'s career included being a compromiser during the dictatorship of Mátyás Rákosi, because after the communist takeover, as well as the remaining party of the small farmer, he cooperated with the one-party system, until 1953 he remained a Member of Parliament. Its biography shows that, thanks to its feigning defiance, Béla Kovács, the president of the FKGP, had received his ministerial pension after 1956, did not take away their luxury apartment downtown, in which he carried me to the Soviet Union in the days of the revolution and after that, and then returned home. [[The MSZP faction and the independents are leaving the Chamber. Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Shame on you!]] It has not been relocated, like other prestigious politicians, moderated harassment, surveillance, and we can still have a long list of what the predecessors of the Socialist Party to our right have done. József Antall Sr. was tried to be an informant, but this failed, he resisted, so it should be his honor. He not only saved Poles, but also French, English, Italians, Belgians, Dutch, Serbs, Russians, Transylvanian Hungarians, Csángós, who can all be grateful to József Antall, who is older. Read more about his way of life and its background on the Kuruc.info News Portal [[An uproar in the pro-government benches. Repeats: Shame on you!]] Unfortunately, not here in Parliament, as the parliamentary internet censorship has blocked access to the most read right-wing news portal. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] József Antall, God rest his soul, and long live Polish-Hungarian friendship! [[Intercoms in the pro-government benches: Shame on you! Shame! It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-24-246	Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, a lack of knowledge or incomplete knowledge of the facts nuances the content of this speech. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. The MSZP faction and the independent return to the Chamber.]] I now address István Ikotity, representative of the LMP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-09-24-247	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice President, Mr President, Dear Parliament, Such moments are exceptional in the work of the Parliament. You know this, my fellow Members, and also the citizens who follow Parliament's work. We are now making a decision about something different from the day-to-day work of the Parliament, when it is not about what we think differently, what we cannot vote on based on our values in the same way. Of course, it is okay to have a difference of opinion in a parliament, but from time to time it is important to state which frameworks are those that cannot be called into question. The example of Henryk Sławik and József Antall Sr., in my view, is an exception. We are now making a decision on something that relates to fundamental principles in which there can be no difference between political forces, because we now have to follow higher moral aspects than politics. The resolution proposal presented to Parliament concerns the lives of these two heroes, the anniversary of their death, and the people who are responsible for surviving World War II hell. Many thousands, tens of thousands of Polish refugees survived those years thanks to the activities of Henryk Sławik and József Antall Sr. The placement of Polish refugees in Hungary, the creation of false documents for the persecuted, but saving their lives, shows that these two people have done everything in their power to save as many people from destruction as possible. It is typical of their exceptionalness that they sought to save not only their lives, but also to provide a life worthy of man, the conditions for survival beyond immediate danger, and to provide them with welfare assistance and education. The moral order to help people in distress in the face of every political disaster seems self-evident. Although we admire the two people whom we are proposing a resolution on, we still believe that what they have done is natural. This is exactly what the heroism of Henryk Sławik and József Antall Sr. is about. Regardless of the circumstances, they were able to do as they were required by the eternal laws. They were able to make a decision as people when, as citizens, politicians, Poles and Hungarians, many factors could have drawn them both back to failure, compromise and pettyness. It is no coincidence that in those years, when all was determined by opposition, they could still become friends, what the heroic sacrifice of Sławik Antall to save József made indescribable. We still need such friendships today. It is something that is worth and important to make public as widely as possible in Hungary and Poland. Fortunately, this process has already started and will continue before the adoption of this Decision. All the people have the heroes that the schoolboys already know. It would be good if their example were soon to be one of them, and it would be important for everyone who can do so to make an explicit effort. The decision we are adopting is the least we can expect. We can do much more than that, and if we have really learned from the example of Henryk Sławik and József Antall Sr., we need to do more. Because with this resolution proposal, we acknowledge, we declare, that there are laws that are superior to the laws adopted here. Poland and Hungary should be grateful and proud of the fact that they were heroes that we can set as examples to follow. In view of this, on behalf of the LMP faction, we grant our support and pay tribute to the memory of Henryk Sławik and József Antall Sr. Thank you for listening.
u2014-09-24-248	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr László Kövér, Speaker of the House, who will present the author's closing. We'll wait for Mr. President to arrive on the stand. Mr. President, please.
u2014-09-24-249	Dear House, In closing the debate, which took place from this historic starting point and created a formal historical precedent, I should first of all like to thank Mrs Maria Pańczyk-Pozdziej, Vice-President of the Polish Senate, for initiating the joint commemoration of the two legislative acts on the common heroes of our past. I would also like to ask you to convey our thanks to Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, President of the Senate, for supporting this initiative and to the senator ladies and gentlemen for a unanimous acceptance decision. Finally, I thank my fellow Members and the factions, not only for the speeches that are worthy of the exception, but also for the flexible handling of procedural issues. If irony were appropriate for the occasion, I could say that our Polish friends have almost succeeded in finding a topic that we have been able to agree on here in this House with a good heart. Because this has rarely happened in the last quarter of a century, even when it comes to the past. That different interpretations of the past cause our present opinion to be irreconcilable, or that our current aspirations for the future make it difficult to reach agreement on our past, it would be difficult to say. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, when we today honor the memory of Henryk Sławik and József Antall Sr. in Parliament's resolution, we not only remember their past actions, I believe that we are not only talking about an important moment of Polish-Hungarian friendship, which is unprecedented in this capacity, but we are also thinking about the future, and we are doing it with European validity. In fact, we are also contemplating the role of morality, Christianity and national identity in today's world, today's politics and tomorrow's Europe. One of the most well - known definitions of so - called real politics is: " We have no permanent allies, no eternal enemies, our interests are constant and eternal, and we must follow these interests. " [[17.40]] British Foreign Minister Palmerston said this in the London Parliament in March 1848 two weeks before the Pest Revolution, so - using historical time - at the moment when the Hungarians began a struggle for freedom and national independence - let us not forget, with the help of a multitude of Poles - that the educated West and the barbarian East, which he has looked down on, will defeat this struggle together in the spirit of real politics. By the way, the same real policy measured the same fate, Stalinist occupation and terror as a punishment for us Hungarians fighting with hundreds of thousands of armies on the side of the allies after the Second World War. Ladies and Gentlemen, Let's face it, we Hungarians are a somewhat sentimental people, and our political culture is also somewhat excessively legal, so we tend to lose ourselves in moral and legal reasoning, citing certain words, declared rights and justice as compensation for the iron laws of real politics. But let us also bear in mind that, on the one hand, politics deprived of emotions and moral considerations is just a self-serving, inhumane technique of power, the application of which, from time to time, leads to the historical depths from which the grave sacrifice of many, the Henrys Sławiks and Antall Józsefsefs, based on morals and emotions, can only be highlighted. On the other hand, real politics is always the luxury of the strong. History has shown that the Polish and Hungarians have never had the true strength to remain a nation of great power and value, but rather the determination from within, from the depths of our culture, to hold on to our national identity, to our Christian faith and to our conviction about the truth on the ground of these powers. On July 24, 1939, Hungarian Prime Minister Pál Teleki wrote to Hitler that Hungary is not in a position to engage in military operations against Poland for moral reasons. The same moral reasons opened the border crossings of the Hungarian state and the heart of Hungarian society to Polish refugees, just as Hungarian refugees have always had confidence in the protection of the Poles. József Antall Sławik Sr. and patriots like them proved in a tragic age that we Poles and Hungarians are richer than we are, because we have not only interests but also true friends with whom we can always count on each other. And they also proved that as long as we are able to make moral decisions, even in defying the orders of real politics, even in the most despicable situations, we retain a small piece of freedom and humanity that saves a future. Thank you, Members of this House, for testifying that this message is important to them, and I ask you to vote in favour of the resolution proposal. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties, the MSZP, the LMP and the independent.]]
u2014-09-24-250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In view of the deviation from the adopted house rules, we now decide to accept the proposal. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the presentation of H/1270 entitled "The 70th Anniversary of Henryk Sławik's Death and the 40th Anniversary of the Death of József Antall Senior. " A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal with 179 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. [[A long round of applause, while the representatives and the Polish guests in the box stand up.]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Please take your seats. I would also ask our guests to take their seats. I now call on Mr Attila Gelencsér to present the text of the adopted decision.
u2014-09-24-251	" The Parliament's resolution commemorates the 70th anniversary of Henryk Sławik's death and the 40th anniversary of the death of József Antall Sr. Hungary's National Assembly pays tribute to the two heroes of World War II, Henryk Sławik and Antall Sr., on the occasion of this year's commemoration of the round anniversary of their deaths and the opening of the Hungarian border to more than 120,000 Polish war refugees on 17 September 1939. We pay tribute to these outstanding figures of the Polish and Hungarian people, who, in the years between 1939 and 1944, tried to help Polish citizens find shelter from double aggression against their country. Many of them were Jewish refugees. During their stay in Hungary, refugees were taken care of, and thousands of people were given the opportunity to continue their studies. Many refugees were protected from death by false documents issued to them. Henryk Sławik and József Antall Sr. saved more than five thousand Jews, and thanks to their cooperation with Polish military bodies, tens of thousands of officers and soldiers could reach the allies. The National Assembly of Hungary bows down to the unbreakable spirit, courage and self-sacrifice of the two heroes, who, after the German occupation of Hungary, did not use the possibility of escape at the risk of their own lives. As a result, the Gestapo arrested both of them. Henryk Sławik consciously assumed full responsibility during the interrogations. He paid the highest price - on August 23, 1944, in the concentration camp in Mauthausen-Gusen, the Nazis murdered him. Henryk Sławik and Antall Sr. are symbols of unselfish friendship with other peoples. The National Assembly of Hungary wants the devoted brotherhood shown during the times of war to be an example for Poland and Hungary in the time of peace. We believe that, like our heroes, we are always ready to help other peoples if they are threatened. The National Assembly of Hungary expresses its conviction that Sławik and Antall both performed a great service to Poland and Hungary, and their heroism deserves that the successors retain their names and actions in their memory. This resolution was adopted by the Hungarian Parliament and the Senate of the Republic of Poland, with a content in line. The decision is to be published in the Official Journal of Hungary, in the Hungarian Gazette. Budapest, 24 September 2014 "
u2014-09-24-252	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. With all due respect to the presence of our dear guests, the Parliament will continue its work. Dear Parliament, It follows the decision and the final vote to be taken on the proposal for an amendment to the bill on amending individual laws in relation to budgetary planning and the more efficient provision of money market and utility services. The submission is T/1271. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/1271/14. T/1271/15. Available on the website. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the T/1271/4. Amendment Nos 5 and 5 are maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. [[17.50]] T/1271/4. István Tukacs and others in the bill 6 and 7. It is proposed that the provisions of Section 4 of this Article should be deleted. This amends the rules of conflict of interest for managers in the Eximbank Act. The Economic Committee shall not support it. I'm asking you if T/1271/4 is being maintained. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 47 votes in favour, 129 against and without abstentions. T/1271/5. István Tukacs and others are the draft laws 59 and 61. Article 60 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 60 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Commission shall initiate an amendment to Section 5 of this Annex. These include a new deadline for the submission of the draft law on the budget and on which it is based in the election years. The Economic Committee shall not support it. I'm asking you if T/1271/5 is being maintained. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 47 votes in favour, 130 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/1271/14. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 129 votes in favour, 31 against and 18 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I would like to inform you that the Chairman of the Legislative Committee is T/1271/17. The Commission submitted a single proposal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. § 2 of the Act contains a provision of fundamentality, subject to which the final vote shall be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1271/17. According to the pivotal clause of the Single Proposal No.3 the provisions of two thirds of the Members present requiring a vote in favour. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 151 votes in favour, 28 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts them. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 149 votes in favour, 29 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, The election of the three members of the Constitutional Court by secret ballot follows. Allow me to give a special welcome to the candidates; Mr Péter Paczolay, President of the Constitutional Court [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Peter Paczolay, standing up, thanking you for your applause.]] Members of the Constitutional Court present [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] ; all the permanent guests of the Parliament who attend our meeting. Committee for the Election of Members of the Constitutional Court S/1306. CLI 2011 on the Constitutional Court. Act No. 7 Dr. Tamás Sulyok, in accordance with his authority under § (1) With effect from 27 September 2014, Dr. Zs. Varga Andrew [[Applause from the pro-government benches. Dr. Varga Zs. András, standing up, thanking you for your applause.]] also with effect from 27 September 2014 and Dr. Ágnes Czine [[A round of applause from government parties and Jobbik. Dr. Agnes Czine is standing up to thank you for your applause.]] With effect from 15 November 2014, it proposes to appoint a Constitutional Judge. The Justice Committee has listened to the candidates and supported their election. The resolutions on this and the biography of the candidates can be found on the website. The National Assembly elects the members of the Constitutional Court for 12 years with two-thirds of the votes of the Members of Parliament. Under the parliamentary law, the vote is classified. Dear Parliament, The secret ballot process is as follows. The ladies and gentlemen of Congress can take the ballots on the Danube River, in alphabetical order according to the names of the Members, in four groups. I would like to inform you that in the sectors, you can receive three ballots of different colours and one envelope. Please confirm the fact of receipt on the sheets placed at the tables. I ask you to use the polling booths at the end of the corridor during the vote. I would also ask you to place your nomination on the ballot box "yes," "no" or " abstain." I would ask Mr Nándor Gúr to briefly explain the voting rules. Here you go, notary.
u2014-09-24-253	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The only way to vote is with the official ballots. [[Noise. Some of the representatives leave the meeting room.]] Only what is cast on the candidate on the ballot sheet is a valid vote, with two incisive lines placed in squares " yes', " no' or " abstain' next to his name. The vote on which the Member has voted shall not be valid and shall not be beyond reasonable doubt. The vote that was not cast on the official ballot paper, which lacks the stamp, or if the voter takes the ballot, but does not throw it into the ballot box, is null and void. [[It's constant noise.]] I would like to inform you that if anyone fails to fill out the ballot paper, the members of the ballot counting committee at the ballot box will include it and replace it with a new card.
u2014-09-24-254	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, During the voting period, only Members or members of the working group involved in the vote shall be allowed to remain in the Danube corridor of the Chamber. I declare that 20 minutes are available to cast the votes. Since it is now 5:58 p.m., this means that 18 hours and 18 minutes of voting is possible. Dear Parliament, I am now ordering a 40-minute break for the duration of the secret vote and evaluation, i.e. we will continue our work at 6:38 p.m. Thank you very much. (Sunning: 17.58 - 18.47 President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and József Attila Móring)
u2014-09-24-255	Ladies and gentlemen, Please take your seats so we can continue with the work. [[Noise.]] [[Noise.]] I'd like to inform the Parliament about... (Noise. ) Colleagues! Attention, please. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that during the break, Vice-President János Volner from the Jobbik Group asked me that during the vote on the parliamentary decision proposal to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the death of Henryk Sławik and the 40th anniversary of the death of József Antall Sr., he accidentally pressed the residence button instead of yes. In this case, he also acted in the conduct of the minutes. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I declare that the ballot counting committee has completed its work. He found that 160 Members participated in the secret ballot. The notaries concluded that the voting procedure was valid and effective for the candidates. On behalf of Dr. Tamás Sulyok, 160 Members cast their votes based on the number of ballot papers found in the urn. [[Dr. László Sulyok stands up and sits down.]] The distribution of these is as follows. Number of invalid votes 17; number of valid votes 143. Of which, the number of votes in favour is 138; the number of non-votes is 4; the number of abstentions is 1. The National Assembly elected Dr. Tamás Sulyok as constitutional judge with effect from 27 September 2014. Thank you very much. Dr. Varga Zs. According to the number of ballot papers found in the urn, 160 Members voted for András. The distribution of these is as follows. Number of invalid votes 18; number of valid votes 142. Of which the number of votes in favour is 133; the number of non-votes is 8; the number of abstentions is 1. On this basis, the Parliament is Dr. Zs. Varga. He elected Andras as Constitutional Judge with effect from 27 September 2014. Thank you very much. On behalf of Dr. Ágnes Czine, 160 Members cast their votes based on the number of ballot papers found in the urn. [[Dr. Czine Agnes stands up.]] The distribution of these is as follows. Number of invalid votes 2; number of valid votes 158. Of which, the number of votes in favour is 156; the number of non-votes is 1; the number of abstentions is 1. The National Assembly elected Dr. Ágnes Czine as constitutional judge with effect from 15 November 2014. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now the solemn oath of the new Constitutional Judges and the signature of the oaths. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to read the oath text and the members of the Parliament to listen to it as usual. With respect to the newly elected Constitutional Judges, please proceed to the centre of the Chamber. [[The people in the room stand up, the newly elected Constitutional Judges enter the center of the hall, and after reading Lajos Szűcs, at the same time give the words of the oath.]]
u2014-09-24-256	I, Ágnes Czine/Varga Zs. András/Sulyok Tamás I vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law; I will keep its legislation and keep it with others; I will exercise my position as a constitutional judge for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2014-09-24-257	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I now ask Mr Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature, and the elected Constitutional Judges to sign them. [[Dr. Ágnes Czine, Dr. Tamás Sulyok, then Dr. Zs. András will sign the oath. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates and gives copies of the oath documents. The elected constitutional judges were first congratulated by Viktor Orbán, Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Dr. László Trócsányi, Gábor Vona, Antal Rogán, Péter Harrach, Dr. András Schiffer and Gábor Fodor.]] Dear Parliament, I congratulate the Constitutional Judges on their election, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, and wish them good luck in performing their work. [[18.50]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to thank the constitutional judges Elemér Balogh, Péter Kovács and András Bragyova for their work. [[Applause in the pro-government benches and the lines of the LMP. Dr. Elemér Balogh, Dr. Péter Kovács and Dr. András Bragyova thank you for your applause standing up.]] I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the proposal for a parliamentary decision to be published - I apologise, my fellow Member, Mr Attila Gelencsér, and I would like to ask a serial notary to present the proposal for a resolution. Here you go.
u2014-09-24-258	Dear Parliament, Parliament's decision to elect three members of the Constitutional Court. Pursuant to Article 24 (8) of the Fundamental Law, the National Assembly dr. Tamás Sulyok was appointed on 27 September 2014, by Dr. Zs Varga. As of 27 September 2014, Dr. Ágnes Czine is elected member of the Constitutional Court with effect from 15 November 2014.
u2014-09-24-259	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I thank our guests for attending the festive moments. Dear Parliament, I'll wait for our dear guests to leave, and they'll be able to leave the Parliament undisturbed. [[It's happening.]] And we'll get back to work. [[The MSZP and the independent return to the Chamber.]] We are now continuing our work with a decision on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, It follows the decision and the final vote on the amended amendment proposed by way of derogation from house rules for the submission of amendments to certain public service laws. István Németh Szilárd and György Balla's own motion is T/466. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. The Legislative Committee met today at noon and amended its amendment T/466/21. and T/466/22. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the derogation from the adopted house rule, a request for reservations and a separate vote on the amended summary amendment proposal is not possible. We are now deciding on the amended summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/466/21. The amended summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended summary amendment by 121 votes in favour, 29 against and 20 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to inform you that the Chairman of the Legislative Committee is T/466/23. The amended single proposal, drawn up in accordance with the amended summary amending proposal, was submitted by the European Parliament and the Council. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the amended single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended single proposal by 143 votes to 23, with four abstentions. The final vote of the bill on the publication of the Headquarters Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the European Police College follows. The submission was made in T/1127. was given to them. As the Commission's proposal for an amendment to close a detailed debate has not been tabled and the legislative committee's meeting has not been initiated, the final vote follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1127. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 149 votes in favour, 19 against and 1 abstention. The final vote of the bill on the publication of the mutual visa representation agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Poland follows. The submission was made in T/55. was given to them. As the Commission's proposal for an amendment to close a detailed debate has not been tabled and the legislative committee's meeting has not been initiated, the final vote follows. [[19.00]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/55 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill unanimously with 170 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The final vote of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the common border between the two countries, the road bridge between Abaújvár and the settlements of Kenyhec and the proposal for an agreement on the construction of the connecting roads. The submission was made in T/807. was given to them. As the Commission's proposal for an amendment to close a detailed debate has not been tabled and the legislative committee's meeting has not been initiated, the final vote follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts bill number T/807. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 168 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. The final vote of the bill on the publication of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the United Arab Emirates will follow. The submission was made in T/805. was given to them. I would like to inform you that the Commission's proposal for an amendment to close the in-depth debate has not been tabled and that the legislative committee's meeting has not been initiated, and that is why the final vote will follow. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/805 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill with 172 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The final vote of the bill on the publication of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Taxation and the Protocol amending the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters. " The submission was made in T/60. was given to them. As the Commission's proposal to amend the proposal for a detailed debate has not been tabled and the legislative committee's meeting has not been initiated, the final vote follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/60 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 171 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. Next, " XXXVIII of 2014 on the resolution of certain issues related to the Curia's joint decision on consumer lending contracts in financial institutions. The final vote and the decision on the draft amendment of the legislative proposal on the rules for and certain other provisions laid down in the Act. The submission was made in T/1272. He may have been recognized. The Legislative Committee T/1272/4. A summary amendment was tabled and T/1272/5. The Commission also presented its summary report. I would like to remind you that, in the light of the derogation from the adopted house rule, the amendment not included in the summarised amendment proposal cannot be retained and that there is no possibility for a separate vote from the summary proposal. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1272/4. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 148 votes, 1 votes against and 22 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. Chairman of the Legislative Committee T/1272/6. The Commission submitted a single proposal. That's what we're voting on now. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1272/6. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 167 votes, 1 votes against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of our decision-making process. I'm ordering a five-minute technical break. A general meeting of the Hungarian National Group of the Interparlamental Union will then take place. After the general assembly, we will continue our work with a general debate. I would ask President Mihály Balla to come to the stage and take over the role of President of the General Assembly. (Sunning: 19.05 - 19.10) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Attila Gelencsér and Nándor Gúr)
u2014-09-24-260	Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. The 2011 CLXVIII on the management of weather and other natural risks to agricultural production follows. a general debate on the amendment of law and the legislative proposal to amend certain related laws until closure. The submission was made in T/1273. The Parliament's IT network has all been able to get to know it. I would like to inform you that Mr Speaker has appointed the Committee on Agriculture to hold a detailed debate on this proposal. I give the floor first to Secretary of State György Czerván, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-09-24-261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Looking back over recent years, we are increasingly experiencing the increasing likelihood, frequency and negative economic, environmental and social impact of extreme weather events. One of the most sensitive areas of climate change affecting our Earth is agriculture, one of the most important tasks of which is to ensure the supply of food to the population. As the risks of agriculture increase, the performance of this function could be put at risk. As a result, there is an increasing emphasis on risk prevention and risk management, to which our government has always paid particular attention. In this spirit, we presented a bill on the management of weather and other natural risks to agricultural production, which was adopted by the Parliament on 28 November 2011. The law has created a new two-pillar agricultural risk management system for a higher level of self-care. The first pillar of the new scheme is the extended form of the old compensation scheme, which compensates up to 80% of the damage, and the second pillar is the agricultural insurance premium with an aid intensity of 65 per cent. The agricultural compensation pillar, which operates from purely domestic sources, covers agricultural risks - drought, inland water, frost, hail, rain, agricultural floods and storms - and the number of farmers participating in the scheme currently reaches 78 thousand producers. Accordingly, the area covered by the compensation increased, it amounts to 4 million hectares in 2014 and the annual source of compensation was doubled, currently nearly HUF 9.8 billion. A compensation allowance may currently be granted to producers who, under several other conditions of aid, suffer a loss of more than 30 per cent of the yield at operating level, i.e. a loss of more than 30 per cent of the yield, i.e. a loss of revenue. Farmers' interest in EU co-financing of agricultural insurance premiums as the second pillar of the agricultural risk management system is constantly increasing. While at the start of the support programme in 2012, the total fee for agricultural premiums was HUF 1.5 billion, this figure increased to 3.9 billion in 2013 and is expected to reach HUF 5.5 billion in 2014. The two pillars are an integral complement, since compensation is paid for similar damage to adverse weather events, and in addition, the producer can expect full compensation in the first pillar if he has an adequate insurance contract. However, the success of the agricultural risk management system can only be maintained by continuous improvements in line with the needs of farmers and EU rules, with amendments. The current amendment to the Agriculture Risk Management Act is justified by the implementation of the EKOP, an electronic administrative operational programme, the complex agricultural risk management system, the need to simplify procedures for the agro-risk mitigation system and the new EU rules on State aid that entered into force from 1 July 2014. The development of the EKOP project has resulted in a modern register of parcel-level data, similar to the single application, which opens up new opportunities in both pillars of the risk management system. In the first pillar, it will also be possible to report damage that is less territorially, so that producers can be eligible for compensation by combining several minor losses. However, it should be stressed that the reformed system continues to compensate for the loss of yield and crop losses of more than 30 per cent at operational level, in line with EU standards. In the second pillar, producers may use a surface to provide the territorial data necessary for the conclusion of premium-supported insurances, which takes over the data previously provided in the single application and recorded at the Agricultural and Rural Development Office, thus avoiding errors resulting from repeated data submission. The data provided by the actors in the risk management system shall establish a database that facilitates the task of all actors in the system, the application for and insurance of the producer compensation allowance, the control of the authorities, and the effective management of the system. The data collected will provide an opportunity to analyse, further develop the risk management system and to prepare well-founded ministerial decisions. Among the amendments to simplify the agricultural compensation procedures of the first pillar, it should be pointed out that the management board of the competent county government office, i.e. the agricultural damage control body, will, in future, take an official decision on partial claims notifications and on the producer's application for compensation, instead of the current official certificate. In addition, the grounds for refusal without so-called substantive examination, which, at an early stage of the compensation procedure, can exclude unjustified producer claims, thus helping to ensure a smoother, faster treatment of claims for compensation benefits, will be introduced. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The new EU rules on State aid for the period 2014-2020 should apply from 2015 at the latest. On the basis of the new rules, it is appropriate to make a change in order to reduce the amount of compensation paid by insurers in respect of the claims in the first pillar in the claim for compensation, not to reduce the reduction of the return value and loss of income eligible for the compensation benefit, but to deduct it from the compensation benefit itself if the maximum compensation of 80% is exceeded. [[19.20]] It is important to stress that it is still an EU requirement that, in the absence of an insurance contract covering a specific crop and at least half of the reference yield at the service level, injured producers are entitled to 50% of the otherwise due compensation. It is therefore particularly important to publish the agricultural insurance premium scheme as soon as possible within the framework of the new rural development programme. It should be noted that the improvement of the compensation scheme does not stop with the above amendments. The government plans to introduce further substantive aid amendments from 2015, which are not, however, the basis for the amendments at this stage of the legislative amendment. These amendments have already been notified by the agricultural portfolio at the end of May 2014 and can only be incorporated into the legislative text after obtaining the Commission's approval decision. Such amendments include: 15 per cent reduction in yield and loss of revenue instead of 30 per cent so far, in order to ensure that compensation is available even in the event of minor losses to producers. The introduction of the autumn frost into the risk management system, which is particularly justified by the damage caused by the extremely low temperatures experienced last autumn... - you may recall that the compensation scheme has not yet managed the autumn frost risk in 2013, so the assessment of these damages could not have been carried out within the framework of the compensation scheme. Despite this, in 2013, 57 producers made a declaration in autumn for 1,500 hectares, mainly for hybrid maize, sweet corn, spice peppers and peppers, in parts of the county of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok, Bács-Kiskun, Hajdú-Bihar and Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg. Ladies and gentlemen, Through these amendments, the government hopes that the future resources gathered under the risk management fund of the first pillar will help to compensate for real producer damage resulting from adverse weather events even more effectively, resulting in further increases in the acceptance of producers of the risk management system. I would ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss, and then support and accept, the bill before you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-262	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The speech will now take place within a 15-15-minute time frame, and no two-minute speeches will take place in the meantime. First, I give the floor from the Fidesz Group to Mr János Pócs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-09-24-263	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Following its presentation, I no longer wish to describe the importance of the amendment to the law on the management of weather and other natural risks to agricultural production. In examining the changes, the correctness and importance of changes of a legal nature or resulting in compliance with EU standards, I do not think it is necessary to highlight them separately. What I think is really important is that the process of applying for compensation benefits and delivering them to injured farmers will be simplified in a number of ways by amending the law. With the full electronic damage report, farmers save time and money. The calculation of the claim for compensation shall be carried out by the system instead. The possibility of establishing a parcel-level notification system is also important, as it will allow more accurate calculations so that farmers can be compensated for real damage. Some minor tightenings required by the Union are also aimed at a fairer allocation of available compensation resources. These contribute to the fact that the victims are indeed compensated according to the extent of the damage. The claims for compensation, the criticism system, are undergoing the greatest changes. The calculations carried out by the electronic system, the wider communication between insurance companies and MVH databases and the statistical system based on data thus expanding make the work of public authorities much simpler and more efficient. As a result, administrative checks will be introduced, which will not trigger on-the-spot checks, but will in any case require fewer exits. The effectiveness of the system of criticism will also be enhanced by simple decision-making instead of issuing an official certificate, the introduction of further grounds for refusal without testing. I think it is important to point out that these steps are not only easier for public authorities, and are not only important in terms of cost efficiency. It is absolutely natural and important that farmers will also benefit from a faster and more predictable system of damage reporting. Mr President, Finally, please allow me to note that the changes are also very timely for the implementation of the complex agricultural risk management system project under the electronic administrative operational programme previously mentioned in the keynote speeches and for the introduction of EU state aid legislation that entered into force from 1 January 2011. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-24-264	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Zsolt Legény. I'll give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-09-24-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As a result of the amendment before us and technical improvements, the already very complex compensation application system is significantly simplified. The complex calculations of the claim for compensation are carried out by an electronic system, which significantly facilitates the task of producers. A huge risk management database is established to allow the agricultural damage control body to decide on producer claims reports on the basis of administrative checks, which may in some cases be excluded from on-the-spot checks. This database may facilitate the task of all actors in the risk management system, the application for compensation for producers and insurance, the control of authorities and the effective management of the system. Simplification is definitely a decision to support, but it is questionable when the new system will be available. If completed as soon as possible, it could be a significant relief for farmers, of whom few are currently able to make use of the option due to the complexity of the system. Of course, the new compensation scheme will not only be viable from technical simplification, but also from the extent of the State's annual support from the central budget. Unfortunately, over the past four years, we have seen several examples of the fact that the provision of adequate resources was very bumpy from the compensation fund. It is enough to think only of drought damage in 2010 or of reducing internal and flood damage in 2012. While Mihály Varga has recently announced nearly HUF 1700 billion cuts, it is feared that the government will still not fill the framework for compensation assistance from the central budget in a sufficient way, so they will continue to wait in hopes of compensation, such as farmers who suffered damage in the Island after the big flood in 2012. In addition, allow me to draw your attention to one more thing. A responsible government is preparing not only for natural problems, but also for processes in the world that are causing damage, for example, to apple producers of shearing. If you were responsible representatives and government actors, you would have started dealing with the problems of apple producers weeks ago. However, the least of their responsibilities are their decisions, so now you are the reason why domestic apple producers are in a deeper and deeper crisis. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2014-09-24-266	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Zoltán Magyar. Here you go, Congressman. [[19.30]]
u2014-09-24-267	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, that's not gonna be the most controversial bill on agricultural matters. I can say in advance that we will, of course, be able to support, as in previous drafts of a similar nature. I am not going to discuss the timeframe, of course, but there are some things that need to be mentioned. On the one hand, the fact that the EU directives must now be complied with is a positive one, in this case, because the Hungarian compensation scheme was indeed not known for its simplicity, and it is indeed apparent from the proposal that this will be significantly simplified. I'd like to know exactly when this will work in practice. And here, I have concerns about the help that producers who do not know enough about these systems will receive, and there are many who cannot handle the computer at all. I think it would be time, for example, to use the Chamber in such a case, which could help these producers, since so far we have not seen the meaning of the chamber's operation, apart from the fact that their buddies have been placed here. I would also be interested to know when the problems relating to apple producers will be addressed, although this proposal will not be specifically addressed. There have been some controversial news about what will happen to them, and whether the government will address their problem at all, because the fact that they are in this situation is not their fault, nor is it the cause of any sort of accidental natural disaster, but most of all the consequences of the Russian embargo, which I think it would be appropriate to remedy, and it would be appropriate not to abandon people who have done nothing but what they know and have worked all year round, and now many are on the brink of bankruptcy. They would expect a reassuring concrete response from the Secretary of State on how to proceed. And speaking of compensation, I also have two things to mention. There have been serious promises in the previous cycle that both the damage caused by water and the damage caused by ice will be prevented by the government in such a way as to take practical steps. I am thinking of the fact that the construction of reservoirs is not progressing at a sufficient pace, and perhaps we do not know very well about a project that is in progress, and there have been serious promises to develop an ice compensation and ice damage relief system that is fully covered by a country, which we still do not know anything about. I hope that Mr Secretary of State can disprove me and come up with the answer that these are already ongoing cases. I have tabled a single amendment to the proposal itself, and I did not know in advance what the Secretary of State would say in the introduction, and indeed it is in line with your future plans, to bring this 30% to 15 percent. It is then that the outcome of the negotiations with the Union will be whether we will be able to incorporate this in this draft law in the future. I hope that this will happen as soon as possible, and as my amendment contains, in this form, because I believe that this would bring further progress on this issue. I wanted to say these briefly for this draft, and with which I started, of course, we support it, but I would like to encourage the government to have a little courage to include this 15 percent in this circle, and if the Union has a problem with that, then we will run the next round. I would certainly consider it a positive message to farmers if the government had already dared to do so, since that would mean that they could, in their interest, even confront Brussels and not only act in their behalf if they had received the positive signal. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-24-268	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker for the LMP Group is Mr Sallai R. Benedek. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-09-24-269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, We've reviewed the bill, and I don't feel it's my job to praise it for what's good, because Fidesz has the right amount of people to draw the good things out of it. Overall, the LMP will be eligible for this legislative proposal, but at the same time we have the concern, the problem is that we are not fully convinced that the proposal itself addresses the biggest problems. Now it seems as if this was an ex post correction for a proposal submitted by István Jakab in 2012, because there were relatively many farmers who were able to escape from the force majeure finding in the contracted contracts, and as if they were trying to fix this now, and the proposal was intended to provide a more uniform, wider allocation of aid, which is why the LMP will support it. However, there are some things that I would like to draw attention to on this agenda. The first thing to me, as the man from the Great Plain, is one of the most sensitive and serious problems, is that there is almost nothing in the draft legislation to deal with the damage to the fodder harvest. So it's not extended to her lawn. Anyone who lives and works in grasslands, or who may be engaged in livestock farming, knows that the ability of a hectare to produce such grass can grow from one to two or three balls up to twenty or thirty balls or even more. I believe that Mr Secretary of State has also seen this in his history, that the way of lawn harvesting is very, very different. The government says itself that it wants to support livestock farming, it wants to support the strengthening of livestock keepers and higher employment sectors as effectively as possible. Compared to this, inland water can affect lawn harvesting to a lesser extent, but especially drought to such a large extent that we think such introduction would be more important than recent corrections. So this is our first important message to the government that it would be very, very useful for lawn management to be able to deal more with the draft legislation and to take greater account of the needs of livestock owners of this kind. This is also important, because, as I think the Secretary of State knows, the background of livestock farming and crop production in Hungary is quite fragmented, unfortunately, after the change of regime, and, therefore, the nature of the disadvantage that is affecting the keepers of animals is due precisely to the fact that they do not always have the field background for the production of grain fodder. This may be well assessed, for example, in public land contests, that in most cases livestock farmers focus on grasslands and hay harvesting opportunities. So this kind of step and development, in our view, would be very, very important and justified. In the same way, there is a little bit of a negative feeling that such a force majeure situation, or such environmental problems, obviously occur better than those who cultivate larger production areas in a uniform manner. This is important because, according to the government's own declaration, it has the ambition to promote agricultural diversification as much as possible and to help farmers to carry out a wider and more diverse farming. However, the result of such damage is in a large part the strongest in monocultures reaching larger areas, and therefore, the larger farmers are obviously more interested in the possibilities for compensation in this regard than small farmers. Those who farm land below a hundred hectares and may sow two or three cultures are much less affected by such damage than the large monocultures with hundreds of hectares. As a result, we would like to see a system of compensation and legislation of the same nature as the government's current endeavour to support the small ones, to strengthen small and medium-sized owners, to try to reduce the level of compensation in the same degressive system, and not only to determine the area of production, but also to take into account the need to better assist small ones on the basis of the size of the production plant, because there even a 15-20 percent crop loss can cause much more damage, because the percentage of area aid is much less likely to be compensated. So we think that the little ones should be better helped, and that a wiser farming should be better achieved. Basically, in the system of compensation itself, it is also worth considering why specific official insurance for the production areas in Hungary is being provided for half the time in Hungary, although 65 percent can be used for the use of insurance. I think it would be very useful for the government to complement this type of measure with the effort to persuade farmers to take insurance, what is the intensity of the aid, what is the incentive package that can be used to encourage insurance companies to make sure that insurance is a part of the problem at present. I'd like to draw your attention to one more thing. The draft legislation has now incorporated the concept of "snow" into the concept of "storm," so it has taken into account the characteristics of the region from different parts of the country, but I would have liked to have seen or taken an interest in it if even the committee had had a debate on how specific ecological problems, not specific, lifeless environmental elements, could be implemented, in weather factors, such as this year's tummy damage. [[19.40]] It is well known from the professional portfolio that in Hungary there was a loss of more than 10 percent, in some cases 30-35 percent of the production losses in this year, and the farmers were not really prepared for this. There was no awareness-raising, there was no pre-pre-emptive action package, there was insufficient information. In view of the fact that, in the case of a country where the share of agricultural graduates is one of the lowest for farmers in Europe, I believe that such professional assistance would have meant a great deal. Therefore, I would wonder from my legislative position how I can incorporate negative symptoms of this type of biological potential gradation or any other type of production into such legislation. So overall, as I said, the LMP can support it, but we have a bad feeling that the amendment does not necessarily affect the most important areas and does not achieve what the government is saying, either to take more account of the aspects of the small and medium-sized economies, it does not achieve a better consideration of the interests of the keepers. The application of all these aspects in the legislative process should, in our view, have been given greater weight. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2014-09-24-270	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Here are the speeches from the Members - they would be if I could see the candidate on my monitor. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone still wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr György Czerván, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I wish. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-09-24-271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this is an agenda where there is no debate at all. Thank you very much for your opinions and for your improved opinions. I am pleased that we fundamentally agree that, although that system is a little complicated, it worked, and there will be serious simplifications in the context of this proposal. I would like to say, especially for the sake of my new fellow Members, that when Parliament dealt with this bill at the time, it was preceded by very serious preparatory work. The Department of Rural Development did this job at the time. We have studied a lot of European examples and patterns, and indeed, it was a general opinion at the time, and here in my expo, I mentioned that the Parliament adopted this proposal with a very large majority, so it was a general opinion at international level, when we met foreign delegations, a lot of people are interested in the Hungarian model. So we've been trying to get the best elements out of a number of countries' models. In my memory, Spain and Austria were the ones who were most able to give examples that we could use, but as special and specific a model as Hungarian, there is no other one in the European Union, and this compensation scheme is mentioned among the best. We are always trying to shape and improve this. The system has now been in place for the third year, and obviously we have been able to integrate the experience so far into the amendment, and we will integrate it and, of course, also the obligations relating to EU law. It has been considered when this newly adopted compensation scheme could enter into force and one of my fellow Members hopes that it will come into force as soon as possible. Well, this can take effect from 1 November 2014, but at the latest after the European Commission's approval. I think it is a very big step forward in terms of simplification, as my fellow Member Pócs said, that the loss of returns, which is a really complicated calculation, especially a calculation that seems complicated for a simple farmer, will be done by the system. In fact, several people have said that this is what the MSZP representative was talking about, that I should go through in chronological order, that the system would be simplified; that from when I gave an answer. Now that there are few producers: there are 176 registered producers, and I mentioned that there are 78 thousand in the system. This was also a major debate at the time when we made it compulsory for farmers over 10 hectares of arable land to enter the system, over 5 hectares of arable vegetables and over 1 hectare of plantations. In principle, we can make any amendments to them, but it has not been very successful to, say, make entry into the system mandatory for everyone. The amount of money in the fund, I would like to say that in 2012, the fund, the source of the compensation fund, which was available, was HUF 8 billion 285 million, and of which, in March 2013 - we always pay compensation in March following the year - HUF 7.4 billion was paid. In 2013, the fund had HUF 8.6 billion at its disposal, i.e. from the producer's payment and from the public contribution, and it was paid for HUF 2.5 billion. In 2014, so now, thanks to God, until this moment, significantly less damage reports have been made than in the same period of previous years, but after last year's resources remain in the compensation fund, HUF 14.9 billion will be available next March, which is likely to be sufficient to satisfy all legitimate and legitimate claims for compensation. Here many have mentioned the situation of apple producers, which is not closely linked to this item on the agenda, but I will not avoid this issue. The biggest problem in the apple market is that there are too many apples, at least 150 to 200 thousand tonnes compared to previous years, and 30 to 40 percent more apples. I would like to say that the government has already dealt with the issue and the problem, and the portfolio is also constantly dealing with it, the Ministry of Agriculture is interested in involving producers, processors and interest representatives. I would like to say that there is also a concrete proposal from the FM, which the government, as I have already said, has been negotiating, and will be discussing in the days. The decision will be made soon. That's what we promised, that's what we said in front of the press. No precise decision has yet been made on the specific form and the specific amount, but this will also be taken soon. So, by the time the income of the apple is realised, the producers will have plenty of government decisions and help. That's why we know when apple producers make their incomes after a sale. The crisis in the apple market should not be confused with the Russian embargo. The EU is trying to address the problems caused by the Russian embargo in a specific fund of EUR 125 million, of which EUR 82 million is otherwise included in apples and pears. So he is not trying to address the market problem arising from overproduction, that is not his aim, but the problem caused by the Russian embargo. I mean, there was this fund that was over-claimed for, right? Since 2008, artists have been continuously submitting applications to the Union to address market problems of this kind, if this is planned for their operational programme. Unfortunately, in Hungary, planters do not design such tools in their operational programme, because the organisation of the plant is so low in Hungary that it simply does not fit into their budget. The Hungarian legislation had to be created, and this was created by the Ministry in an accelerated procedure, so that non-Speed apple producers could also go to the Union for support because of the Russian embargo. And we know that the EU has already informally indicated that the Commission will come up with a new proposal, since unrealistic requests for EUR 125 million have been made. It has not yet been decided what payments will be made here, but nevertheless, the EU will come out with a quota-like system broken down by Member States. [[19.50]] On this subject, I would like to say that Hungary's apple exports to Russia in 2013 amounted to 600 tonnes; so 600 tonnes to the Russian market. And as I said, the Union, the Commission, is trying to deal with the damage caused by the Russian embargo. By the way, the demand for this EU fund came to 35,000 tonnes from 226 producers, if I recall correctly. So let us wait and see how, when the Commission officially takes the view of how and how the request can be submitted to the Member States, it will decide that, compared to the previous 125 million, where I say it once again, it is unrealisticly high, the Member States' needs were significantly higher than actual Russian exports - I do not want to classify them here - and then we will return to the subject. So it is not true that the government does not address the issue, both from the domestic budget and from EU funds, I think that we are doing it, that we have already taken the necessary steps and that we are paying attention to the problems of apple producers. The next, my better fellow Member, has also said fundamentally positively about this draft legislation. Our problem this year is that, in contrast to the droughts of previous years, there is now much water. From the point of view of the compensation system, the agricultural flood is clearly defined as what it means, and it is the inland water, as well as the downfall that can be considered in compensation. I would also like to encourage producers to report their losses where this rainfall has appeared - in most parts of the country, by the way, the Meteorological Institute has specific professional calculations - because within 15 days there is a reporting obligation to the regionally competent government office. This basically means, if I remember correctly, that by the end of September, these reports would have to go in so that they could fit into 15 days to have a chance of compensation. The inland water. When did the water get in? The compensation law states that, from the time the damage is detected, where the date of the damage cannot be accurately determined, as in, say, a rainstorm. So here, too, I would like to suggest to the people involved that this be reported as soon as possible. I mentioned 15 percent in the amendment. Our wallet wanted to include both the autumn frost damage and this 15 percent bar in the current draft law, but the Ministry of Justice, which, in turn, is responsible for the codification part, was of the opinion that we should do so after the notification. I believe that there will be no obstacles to the notification, there will be no obstacles, and that the Commission has not yet indicated this, which is why it is certain that this will be adopted. We will bring it to Parliament once again in some form, in a simple form, and this amendment will be included. So you can rest assured, my fellow Member, that this amendment, which you have supported, will be incorporated. Last but not least, thank you for the opinion of my fellow Member in the LMP. It was basically positive. It did not last long to highlight the positives, but it highlighted some of the problems. The question of fibre fodder: back in 2011, when we discussed this, this came up. The problem was that for fibre fodder, the determination of the loss of yield value and the yield value itself was, yes or no, complicated or difficult. If you have an exact proposal for this, we welcome it, we are open to it, as we were open to it in 2011, but we did not actually manage to capture this problem professionally. The disadvantage of the animal keepers was also raised here. I would like to say - we have also talked about this several times - that the government has already decided to provide additional support specifically for livestock farmers for the next six years under the "more jobs in agriculture" programme, with HUF 212 billion, of which HUF 180 billion from national budgets. So I think that we do deal with livestock owners separately, and we are trying to represent their interests. Basically, this will appear on three levels. For example, in animal welfare aid, in which we continue to carry on the current items with an increased amount, such as animal welfare aid for poultry, where in 2010 the aid amount was still HUF 4 billion - I am talking about national budgetary resources - we increased it to double this year, HUF 8 billion, and from 2015 we will increase it by HUF 3 billion. This means - who is involved, knows or understands - that virtually there will be no payback for grants, and the waterwings will be fully included in the support circle. Staying with animal welfare aid: we will also introduce a new title - which is also under notification in Brussels - and plan animal welfare aid with an amount of 8.6 billion and the animal welfare of pigs will also remain. So what has so far been $8.5 billion, and as a new item, we will also introduce 8.6 billion-dollar animal welfare aid. So, as I said, one part of national resources is animal welfare, the second part is transitional national support, which replaced the previous top up, the two years ago, here we pay additional aid of an additional 20 billion, a total amount of 11.6 billion for animal welfare, and other items that also help livestock production - the disposal of animal carcasses and the treatment of certain animal diseases, who is involved, also know, under the 148th legislation - we provide additional 1.6 billion for this year. So it is not true that we do not give extra support or pay attention to the problem of livestock farming. We agree with diversification and the new rules in the Common Agricultural Policy are coming in 2015 in the so-called greening category, where we pay 30% of our direct aid envelope. This is a specific condition, so if farmers want to obtain this additional amount of aid, diversification must be taken into account. Here the concept of compensation and compensation was mixed. It's a compensation law. Compensation or compensation for the content of other terms or terms. To help the little one better: yes, this is part of the government's general policy of principle. But it is obvious that if you farm in small areas, you suffer less than the same percentage of damage, while if you are in larger areas, you have more damage in absolute terms. I'm not gonna tell you this again, but it's growing. I agree, it would be the real thing, it would be good for farmers to expect support not only from the compensation fund, not only from the state, but also from the state, so that this whole system would be more on its feet. By the way, at the time, we were striving for the compensation scheme to take some risks for everyone, along with the state, farmers and insurance companies. That is why there is the second pillar, and here the change is that now the insurance premium will appear at rural development sources, so far it has appeared in direct grants, so it is in the first pillar. The tummy's turned up. There were such requests - and we appreciated them - to the Ministry that in some parts of the country, especially in the southern counties, but also in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, the damage was very serious - it is difficult to estimate - we estimated the damage caused by the pockets to some 150 to 200 thousand tonnes, so it is a huge lot. But unfortunately, the compensation system can only handle natural damage, not such damage. Who was paying attention, who wasn't paying attention: I came from farming too, you might notice, I think you should have noticed when the pocks came out, when the invasion began. I think everyone was a little confident that the rain would solve the problem. It wasn't like that. It wasn't winter rain, it wasn't snow, it's actually nature that settles this issue when it melts snow. And the summer rain wasn't cold enough to solve this problem. [[20.00]] So I think, thank God, there's rarely a problem of this kind. According to experts, this is the rate of gradation every 30-40 years. I am very confident that farmers have sought to do the necessary soil work, ploughing work immediately after harvest, not to miss the ploughing phase, with other technology, and therefore to address this problem. Moreover, chemical and other solutions authorised by the Union were available and are currently available to farmers. Of course, the Chamber was involved in this information about the chemicals that can be used. It was Redentin that required the treatment authorised by the Union. Of course, we also need to learn that it is not enough for someone to do this job in their own land, but for everyone to do it, because if the neighbor does not do it, or if the trenchbank is not managed, then we are where the beach falls. So here I would like to draw attention to the common responsibility. In this respect, this year has no doubt been instructive. Like I always say, no two agricultural years are the same. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Nevertheless, I trust that our agricultural year will also be positive after the harvests. Positive processes have also started in livestock production, as the June HCSO reports show growth in all animal species. We hope that this will continue, we are working on this, and I hope that the amendment of the Compensation Act, which I hope you will support, will also help farmers to work and manage effectively. I ask your support for this. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-09-24-272	Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Monday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agenda. It is now up to the speeches after the agenda, and 11 have applied for a post- Agenda address. First of all, MEP Ander Balázs said: " Undeserved circumstances at the memorial place in Muhi, why do they let the monument erected at the sacred site of Hungarian history break down? " The title is given below. I'll give you the floor in five minutes.
u2014-09-24-273	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Remembrance policy, culture of memory, XX. This is increasingly the case with events in the 20th century. We've been able to meet up with this today. However, as a history teacher and a representative of a national radical party, I can only say that this culture of remembrance should be extended to previous centuries. It is true that if we heed the old wisdom, the saying that anyone who does not appreciate, does not respect his past and his ancestors, forgets his heroes, he does not deserve his future. Do we appreciate our past? Do we honor our dead? How can we measure this? Is there some sort of exact measuring device for this beyond words? I think so. Let's go to Széchenyi István. Because what did the greatest Hungarian say about this? He said: " If you want to know how much a people appreciate their past, look at its cemetery. " Such a symbolic cemetery is the memorial place of Muhi. The historical background is well known to most people. It also carries serious historical lessons and truths. In the spring of 1241 when the Tatar-Mongol Wars led by the Batu Khan broke into the Carpathian Basin, it was precisely a man of besenyő origin, Dénes Tomaj, who tried to stop the Mongol army at the Russian gate at the Vereckei Pass. This is a very good historical flick for those who actually consider Hungarians to be a kind of geneticly exclusional people. Here is the proof: in Hungary, the second man after the king was a man of animal origin. True, he gave his life for this country. There is another lesson: In vain turned IV. King Bela to the so-called educated West - that was also the case, I believe, in other historical aspects today - the educated West, the Roman Emperor, the Pope, or the French King did not help Hungary. Then the result was April 11, 1241 - the mournful battle of Muhi, where the king's army of about 65 thousand bled to death, and it was IV. Bela barely escaped. In fact, IV. Frigyes Béla Barbenbergi also lured him to his castle in Hainburg, where he looted him, forced him to hand over three counties in West Hungary. So, he took advantage of Hungary's tight position in a very bad, vile way. I must say that this muhi memorial site is a symbolic cemetery erected at the sacred site of Hungarian history and one of the great tragedies of the Hungarian nation. We know that in 1241-42 about half of the population of the Carpathian Basin, Hungary, died. The historical processes, demographic processes, and then the Mongolian destruction opened, which the Hungarians could never recover from again. Space was opened to the vlah residents in South Transylvania, and this, in place and place, could be said to have established Trianon. If we look at this memorial place, it will be a devastating gallery for us. It was built in 1991 on the basis of the plans of György Vadász, two-time Kossuth Prize winner, Ybl Prize winner, Prima Primissima Prize winner. It's about a 2.5-acre area, by the way. But the state has given up caring for it. He gave the care to Muhi, this small, 500 enthusiastic settlements, which, it seems, is having a hard time coping with this task. Shamefully, the county government or the county government commissioner is pointing fingers at each other in this case, trying to shift responsibility, saying that none of them has anything to do with the shameful fate or state of the muhi memorial. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's all ruined, the monument is crumbling. I'm asking for an intervention as soon as possible, because the conditions are unworthy. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-09-24-274	Thank you. I am asking if anyone from the government would like to comment on the speech. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see the application, they don't want to comment. All right. Dear Parliament, György László Lukács applied for a post-meeting speech: " Can there be abuses in the public work programme of the country's poorest settlement, Tiszabő? " with the title " I'll give you the floor in five minutes.
u2014-09-24-275	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Tíszabó is known to be one of the poorest settlements in the country, and the conditions there have been flashing in front of the decision makers for years. Unemployment is extremely high, record crime indicators, lack of prospects and constantly deteriorating living conditions. In addition, the settlement became famous for the fact that more people from its body of representatives were convicted and prosecuted because of Socpol cases than any other municipality in the country. In the continuous downhill procession, the launch of the public work programme could have served as a small handhold, giving the hope that more people could contribute to making the settlement viable. Of course, in accordance with his name and opportunity, Tiszabó did not seem to be able to make use of the possibilities now. Already in the summer, personal requests were received from the inhabitants of the settlement that the public work programme in Tiszabő was not working properly. In order to make the case clear, I have contacted the mayor of Tiszabő to share his experience in the case. Béla Szabó, the mayor supported by Fidesz, answered the following questions, of course, without the need for completeness, I quote your letter. " After the parliamentary election, the people of Tiszabő village received a great opportunity as a reward. We have the largest number of jobs in the surrounding settlements, with 575 employees currently employed in the Start Public Works Programme. I am not satisfied with the work of public workers, so much of the work of so many people should be arranged, clean, if their work was done properly. [[20.10]] In contrast, the streets are covered with weeds, garbage, and during inspection only the frequented places are fixed, and this is also done by Hungarian workers. Most of the workers do not go to work or have to go to work, in exchange for voting for current programme leaders, candidates for mayor, in the municipal elections. It is outrageous that some people who are employed work for programme managers, who work there on a daily basis in a slave manner, such as animal care, house-to-house work, masonry work. Without any retortion, the programme leaders use the local government's car for their own purposes, they do not drive a passport, they carry everything for their own purposes, nobody dares to tell them. " Then the mayor continues his suggestions: " All workers should go to work and do their work with honor. If programme managers refuse to require precise and accurate work or to overlook absences, they shall be replaced. It must be strictly prohibited for programme leaders not to use public employment, public workers, for their campaign purposes, to waste the state's money in such a way, to abuse the vulnerable situation of public workers. In my opinion - and I quote the Mayor - this form of the Start Public Works Programme does not bring the hopes for it anywhere in the country. These people don't like and don't want to do jobs, they're used to "stow money. " The billions of forints that have been invested so far are only money thrown out of the window, and it is an illusion that they can be traced back to the world of work. Many employees only improve statistics, but they do not produce spectacular results. " - closes his words in a letter by the mayor with these serious thoughts. Furthermore, it is suspected that the municipality and the public works programme are being influenced by persons who may be the perpetrators of usury crimes and are already trying to get people trapped in the usury trap into the public works programme in order to ensure that their illicit loan is covered. So the questions arise: how long will we put up with abuse of the public works programme? How long can we tolerate such mayor candidates using techniques like this to entrap public workers and make the program without results, to abuse the opportunities provided to the settlement? Or is this just an isolated case? After Tiszabő, wouldn't we find similar situations in Tiszaura or other settlements in Tisza? The situation needs to be investigated in a complex way, so I ask the public, together with the mayor of Tiszabő, the Ministry of Interior, the professional supervisors and the investigating authorities, to investigate the case and to investigate any abuses that might arise, so that Tiszabő does not return to the bench of shame. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-24-276	Thank you. The representative of the government has indicated that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. After the agenda, MEP Zoltán Magyar applied for a speech entitled "The Plant Law of Jobbik. " I give you the floor.
u2014-09-24-277	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This speech should not have been said by me, but by the representative of the government at least two years ago, but it would have been even better if it had been said many years ago. We have been waiting for the government to place a plant law on the table in accordance with its promises, and to this day, these promises are only expressed in distant and increasingly later speeches. Unfortunately, we have not yet seen the concrete, while the land law, however shamefully, has been adopted by the House and entered into force. The other leg of the entire system regulation should be the plant law, and this, as I said, has not yet been established. In this way, this poor land law can't even meet the minimum requirements you expected of it. So we were forced to come up with a plant law ourselves, and we submitted it last week, and we encourage the government representatives and opposition representatives, of course, to support this plant law, because I think it certainly meets the expectations that the government represented here in communication, at least. I can only mention it in a few thoughts now, of course, because there is a five-minute time frame, but it has been submitted - as I said - so everyone has a way of getting detailed information, and I encourage those who might be involved in some form of such a law. Today's domestic estate system is decisively determined by the overwhelming overweight of the large-scale sector and the huge size of each large-scale plant. I think we all know that, but in addition to the words, there is some evidence that well justifies why it is necessary to adopt a plant law in such a better way. If you look only at the list of direct area payments, you can see that the seventy largest agricultural holdings in Hungary produce a total area of 350 thousand hectares; twenty large farms range from 5 to 10 thousand hectares, and there are three plants, which use more than 10 thousand hectares, and operate as a superfarm. And here we did not even include in these specific figures that, after examining the ownership background, we could get an even more terrible picture, and it could be found that a significant part of the Hungarian agriculture is in the hands of a few dozen people. In 2010, the government's land programme also promised a radical change in this area, as it announced that it would support the development of family farming and the transformation of property structures, and will help this goal by all means. In the future, therefore, the government promises that small and medium-sized enterprises will own 80 percent of the land, while large-scale land use will be reduced to 20 percent, and the plant law that I am talking about should be a major tool of this, as you promised. But, as I said, this is not just your failure, but I think it is a historical failure, because in '89, at the time of the change of regime, a similar regulation could have been introduced. Even then, there have been a number of international examples before us, because in Europe, countries that build their agriculture on well-functioning family farms use the possibility of plant regulation without exception, and, if I don't mention anything else, perhaps as an added value, that the government's land policy guidelines, I think, could be helped effectively by such a law. Seven EU Member States, but Norway and Switzerland also have operational rules to ensure the existence of family farms and that the land is available to local farmers against major estates and foreign speculation; this is not a theoretical fact, but can be derived from Eurostat numbers as well. As a trend, in Northern and Western Europe, it has been many years now that annual land traffic is less than 1 percent of the land base of that country, and in this context foreign land grabbing is almost immeasurable, and this low level of land traffic also strengthens family economies in these countries. Here, too, most of all, this change in the structure of the estate leads to a change in generations, and the son or other family members of the economy come to the property of the father's land. Our proposal would extend the principle of directing a single and limited plant to the entire land base, to all commodity farms. For example, EU and national additional agricultural support could only be granted to farms subject to this plant regulation and to this restriction of public interest. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] They must, of course, perform many other items, but, as I said, in the absence of time, I will not be able to explain them. It was just a little taste of encouraging all of us to support this proposal. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-24-278	Thank you. I'm asking the Secretary of State.
u2014-09-24-279	In writing.
u2014-09-24-280	It indicates that the government does not wish to respond. István Ikotity, on behalf of the LMP, applied for a post - agenda speech: "Another international survey proves that Hungarian education is in trouble. " You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-09-24-281	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Last week's British journal The Economist quotes the results of a recent educational survey. Large-scale research compares the education system of thirty OECD countries, analysing different parameters and data for a decade and a half, so it is a very thorough analysis. Of course, international analyses can often be met by educational politicians, but the fact that the Hungarian public could also learn about this research, the survey of GEMS Education Solutions, comes from surprising results at first glance, all the more so because even Rózsa Hoffmann highlighted the part of the research concerning Hungary. According to the former Minister of State for Public Education, Hungarian education is surprisingly good, since Hungary has reached the fourth best place in examining the effectiveness of the education system. But do we really have reason to be happy? In fact, researchers looked at the relationship between educational expenditure and educational outcomes, to be more precise, with students' PISA scores. [[20.20]] The overall picture is deceiving, and the reason why Rózsa Hoffmann was deceived is because the performance of students in the PISA survey seems to be less bad compared to the low-level Hungarian education expenditure at international level. However, compared to very low expenditures, this poor result is also effective, and the Hungarian education system is therefore considered effective. The authors also emphasized the distinction between efficiency and effectiveness, and in relation to Hungary, they also stressed that the effectiveness of the Hungarian education system is far below what is desirable. The latest PISA survey published last year showed that Hungarian schools can acquire knowledge that is particularly important and applicable in the labour market and everyday life, which is less than the average of developed countries. Whether we look at text understanding, mathematics or science and skills, Hungarian students in all three areas achieve significantly lower results than OECD averages. Of course, this is not only the second Orbán Cabinet, but it is the fault of all governments after the change of regime that we have come this far. On the other hand, it will be a mistake for the Hoffmann education policy if these results continue to deteriorate, which, by the way, is very likely due to the various measures to reduce knowledge. Think of the 200 billion-dollar cutbacks in education, the reduction of compulsory education, the reduction of vocational training time, or the rigid and over-expansive national basic curriculum, not to mention qualitatively questionable textbooks. The fourth place in the international field is not a success at all. It is not to be pleased that we are not the last in terms of educational outcomes compared to the educational expenditure far below the international level, but only members of the lower middle field. According to Possibly Other Politics, Hungary needs quality education and knowledge, not medium and unfortunately deteriorating results. The most important thing to do is to spend 15-20 forints out of every 100 HUF budget at present instead of 9-10 forints. A teacher's wage increase is not enough if the basic operating conditions are missing. Over the past four years, 200 billion forints of school maintenance are still sorely absent. Of course, a significant expansion of resources alone is not enough; an education system based on knowledge and innovation is needed which does not go back to the past, but focuses on the future; which gives all students the same opportunity to get as far as possible in the school system as possible, depending on their talent and diligence; which does not push out those who, for some reason, are different from the average. We should not be good at cost-efficiency comparisons, but we should improve our effectiveness, because it is far below the top, unfortunately, but does not even reach the average level of other countries. In spite of the effectiveness of the statistical magic tournament, most of the Hungarian schools do not prepare students for the XXI. The challenges of the century. So Rózsa Hoffmann is wrong, Hungarian education does not perform surprisingly well, but is unfortunately in very serious trouble. Thank you for listening.
u2014-09-24-282	Thank you. The representative of the government has indicated that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. After the agenda, Erzsébet Schmuck applied: "When will the government give information on the closure and evaluation of the third international environmental programme and the state of its fourth preparation? " with the title " You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-09-24-283	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, President János Áder spoke at the UN climate summit in New York. Mr President, he mentioned the consequences of climate change that would endanger our lives, stressed the importance of climate protection and highlighted the need to achieve sustainable development. These challenges have tasks at national and international level. Fortunately, more and more people today understand that social, economic and environmental issues are closely linked, and without the conservation and sustainable use of natural and environmental resources, we have no chance of economic development, and people's health depends significantly on the quality of our environment, good air, healthy food, drinking water, and more. We must recognise that environmental and environmental policy are an unavoidable and strategic factor in our social and economic development. It is not only intended to eliminate or reduce the effects of environmental pressures and pollution in the past and to prevent present and future, to protect our natural resources and values, to make wise use of social welfare and the basis of the economy. The policy and strategic basis for sustainable development is the national environmental programme required by the environmental law to be renewed every six years. The first two programmes have played a decisive role in shaping, resolving and building the foundations for a modern environmental policy that accumulates over the decades. The implementation of the third national environmental programme 2009-2014, which ends at the end of this year, is already largely the responsibility of the current government. This programme has set out clear, comprehensive and thematic objectives and measures in the areas of environmental awareness and thinking, climate change, environment and health, urban environmental quality, biodiversity conservation, nature and landscape protection, sustainable land use, protection and sustainable use of our waters, waste management and environmental safety. It also proposed the development of the legal, economic, institutional and international framework for environmental affairs and the provision of financial resources for implementation. We already know that, according to the intention of the Orbán government, we have seen institutional frameworks and guarantees being broken down in the past period, but the question remains, in which of the main objectives we have achieved substantial progress. But what is more important is how the fourth national environmental programme is planned and how, how and how it will be financed when EU funds open up to 2020 and when the 2015 budget is drawn up. The stakes are high: environmental awareness, material and energy efficiency gains can make a significant contribution to reducing living problems for the population, to the proper maintenance of Community, educational, health and cultural facilities and to the creation of a large number of new jobs through the development of the green industry and the green economy. The programme can help, among other things, to prepare for the adverse effects of climate change, to protect our water resources, and to preserve our natural values. I ask the representatives of the government where this process is going and what is to be expected. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-09-24-284	Thank you. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to comment.
u2014-09-24-285	In writing.
u2014-09-24-286	The government will want to answer in writing. Thank you. After the agenda, Mr Sallai R. Benedek said: "The problems of the Tisza Valley will not be reduced. " I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-09-24-287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I must draw attention to a problem that has been constantly present in Hungarian society over the past decades, and this is the full problem of the Tisza Valley. Many say that in Hungary there were two national reservations, one when Árpád leader came into the Carpathian Basin and the other when the flood relief of the rivers in Hungary and the Hungarian Great Plains took place, and the river draining and regulation took place. The Tisza is in a cursed position that at a water catchment area where very intense rains can develop, it has been forced into an extremely narrow dam system, and the dam system, which was implemented according to Vásárhelyi's plans, created the concept of devastating flooding in the Hungarian Plain. As long as the flood had flooded the earth, it fertilized the earth - as the old word used - practically living with water was constant in the Tisza plains, while after the flood in Tisza appeared, the height of the flood wave rose above the villages, and the flood appeared at the height of the temple tower. There have been attempts to address this situation continuously in Hungarian history, but after the change of regime, the Vásárhelyi plan could have been a concept of further development, which has not been achieved to date, and the progress made to address the natural, ecological and social problems of the region has not been made. [[20.30]] We have heard about Tiszabő this evening, but I think that we could mention any other settlements in Central-Tisza, we can safely say that these areas of Central-Tisza are the most backward parts of Hungary when we move down from Szabolcs, the region of the Upper-Tisza region. In all these areas, not only natural problems come in succession, but also environmental disasters are increasing and are causing more and more problems. Today, there has been a discussion on the agenda on the diversification scheme for agriculture, for which the further development of the Vásárhely Plan would have been a solution with a certain term for landscape management. This would have created the possibility for forest management and landscape management models and floodplain orchards adapted to landscape conditions, taking into account the system of flood waves, to be used as a benefit. Unfortunately, the government's efforts to do so have been pushed year after year, and the transformation that would have created a higher level of flood security has not yet taken place. To this end, I would like to draw the attention of the current government to the fact that it is very, very responsible for the purses responsible for rural development and agriculture, in order to see how the social ascent of these areas and their entire landscape planning will take place in the near future. There is no further delay in the fact that development policy in the Central Tisza region has moved on to the shearing areas, and has put this area in an emergency situation without programmes that create jobs, when virtually the rule of public work-based society has appeared in most Central Tisza settlements. There is no alternative solution to this in recent decades, and one of the failures of the Hungarian development policy is the type of development based on tourism alone, which appeared in, say, the region of Lake Tisza. Now this year, when the mederkotras have to be very expensive to maintain tourist attraction at all, we have to face the fact that the Tisza Great Plain, which is the richest region of the country with natural resources, or one of them, has the most agricultural land, huge pasture areas and very useful and good floodplains, does not offer the country the economic potential it should offer. To do this, the further development of the Vásárhelyi plan must be removed from the shelf, dusted, rethinked, and the commitments made by previous governments towards the Tisza Valley must be implemented. The problem of the Tisza Valley can no longer be pushed forward, and more and more we see that the management of the ecological and social issues of the Tisza slowly calls for international cooperation, because we face the same problems not only in Hungarian areas, but across the Tisza every year. In the course of today, we have also talked about the increase in weather extremes, the need for government interventions to carry out adaptation activities in agriculture in the event of the emergence of such extremes in the highest possible proportion, and all of this calls for a kind of landscape change and landscaping to take place that has not occurred in recent decades. I would like to draw the attention of the government to these social problems, this emergency that the entire Tisza Valley is experiencing right now. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-24-288	Thank you. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to answer. [[On the sign of György Czerván:]] No. Lajos Kepli, on behalf of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech: "The Lake Balaton belongs to everyone. I want the government to secure the provisions of the Lake Balaton Act. " with the title " You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-09-24-289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It seems that in the previous term, and now, in this cycle, I am almost alone here in the Parliament, and I have to speak for our great national treasure, Balaton from time to time again. There are many aspects of the issues that currently concern people in this region and which affect all Hungarian people, since, as I said, we are talking about our common great national treasure, which is both ecological, nature conservation and economically significant property of Hungary, if that is the way to put it, because a significant part of the tourism income comes from this region, from this region. I've brought up a lot of problems. Today, I would like to talk about, or if the government will respond to, why the different parts of this lake are not measured on an equal footing with regard to the waterfront, and why the government does not provide the regulations of the Lake Balaton Act, according to which the waterfront should be made directly accessible in the form of a waterfront promenade or other form in 30 per cent of the interior of each town on the shore of Lake Balaton. In particular, on the northern shore of the lake it is not possible to achieve this either, there are longer connected, accessible beaches on the south coast, but, as I said, you have to travel long kilometers or tens of kilometers on the north coast until you have access to your own lake without a fence - but of course not only the Hungarians, but also the tourists arriving here - which is a problem because tourism is based on this, and you should not have to distinguish between people according to their ability to buy hundreds of forints of beach walks every day of a week's holiday, or they can get access to those services, which means primarily dipping in water, water sports or simply walking on the beach, as this may arise in worse weather than an alternative. The Balaton Act stipulated that at least 30 percent of all coastal settlements in the priority resort area should be located on a public-use promenade of at least 5 metres wide. The main reason why the provision of the law has not been fulfilled so far is because in many places private waterfront land does not allow it. A survey was carried out, a draft law in 2012, which would have provided a solution to the problem. 95 properties would have been affected by expropriation, it would have been HUF 3.7 billion. Recently, we have been throwing tens of billions of forints on stadiums and others, compared to this, the HUF 3.7 billion is not small, but it is not in the order of magnitude that could not be raised in the budget. Two years have passed, and the implementation continues to wait for itself. For years, we, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary and the Balaton-partish organizations there have been fighting for the same degree of accessibility to Lake Balaton for all Hungarians. And, of course, there is one aspect of this that many people can't even get there, there are many people living in poverty and deprivation in other parts of the country who can never get to this lake once or twice in their lives. This should also be changed, and we also had a proposal to reduce the VAT on accommodation services to 5%. This has been submitted several times as an amendment to the implementation of the Budget Act, but it has always voted off our proposals for social purposes, which would have made it easier for Hungarian families to travel, to Balaton, or even for their domestic vacation. And we will continue to fight to keep the lake from being blocked from humans, to make Lake Balaton accessible to anyone, and it is clear that water is essential for life, and not only as drinking water, but also as a recreational, holiday, sports area and a significant conservation value. Of course, this should also be taken into account in order to ensure free access in as many areas as possible, since we do not see it in Western European lakes or on the beach, in particular, there is no example of a fence surrounding a lake that functions as a public treasure, as a public property, but we can walk around freely everywhere, and this should be possible in the long term also in the case of Lake Balaton; and then we have a slight decrease in the difference that makes a difference between Hungarian families in terms of access to Lake Balaton at the moment. I think that this could be one of the aims of Jobbik to protect this national treasure, on the one hand, and make it accessible to anyone on the other. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-24-290	Thank you. The government has indicated that it does not wish to answer the question. For a post - agenda speech, Mr László Kiss said: "There is still work to be done in the land of knowledge. " You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-09-24-291	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the spring of 2003, more than 26 thousand 10-12 grade students of 414 schools in Hungary had an alarming sympathy after surveying the Admission Information Service. At that time, the most popular Hungarian and non-Hungarian historical personalities were asked each year. At the time, some of the options of high school students slapped on the face of Hungarian society, but like any miracle, the shock lasted only three days. [[20.40]] On the one hand, the research revealed that Hungarian students had a strong affection for dictators, since among high school students Napoleon, Hitler and Caesar were the three most popular foreign historical figures. The Nazi leader in the international field was prevented only by Napoleon, who achieved a 24 percent result, and in the third place he was also a strong dictator, as I mentioned, Julius Caesar. On the other hand, it is interesting that 9 percent of Hungarian high school students named Hitler as their favorite historical personality. It is important to know that only students who have already decided to continue studying and applying have answered the questions, so the sympathy of the Hungarian intellectuals of the future has been expressed. The research at that time showed that the Nazi dictator was not only popular among those before graduation, although 7 percent called him a favourite even in the 10th grade, but also that Hitler's popularity among those who wanted to study on the military or law enforcement field reaches 20 percent. After ten years, in the spring of 2014, the National Heritage Institute carried out a public opinion poll on the history of young adults aged 18 to 30 in Hungary and their relationship to national heritage and national memory, in line with the national memory obligation of the growing generation. Unfortunately, this survey has confirmed all that we have seen in the research that took place ten years ago. For a good year Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said in the hour of immediate questioning: " According to our opinion, Hungary is the land of knowledge, Hungarian reason, ingenuity and learning is our main resource, so it has always been, and so it is today. That's what determines what we do. " There is much more to be done in the land of knowledge. Not only because Gyurcsány beats Szálasi on the top list of the most rejected in Hungarian history, and Viktor Orbán beats Hitler, but we also have to say that according to the survey carried out by the Institute of National Heritage, it is regrettable that the knowledge of young people about the national holidays is extremely small, and even the most important historical points of our nation's history are being told by children. The 15th of March, according to all the respondents, is a holiday, according to 97 percent of August 20, and 90 percent of October 23, according to national holidays. 6 October - a national day of mourning - 64 percent of them say it is a national holiday. The fate of the Hungarian national holidays is peculiar. According to 51 percent of May 1, Pentecost is 37 percent, Christmas is 28 percent, Trianon Memorial Day is 17 percent, January 1 is 15 percent. The situation is even more alarming when we ask about the contents of the holidays. Practically speaking, even those who roughly suspect whether the national holidays are holidays or not can no longer respond accurately to their exact content, have complete confusion in their heads. Similarly, in Christendom's most fundamental doctrines, children lack knowledge of what separates individual religions from one another, what are the most fundamental teachings of these religions. It is not, of course, that everyone must be of course religious, but it is obvious for an educated man to know what separates each religion from another, what is Hinduism, Buddhism, the fundamental teaching of Christianity, is about the historical values of the Reformation. What happened during the holidays, such as the '56 Revolution and War of Independence, or the '48 Revolution and War of Independence, is also alarming that children do not know. This is the land of knowledge in Hungary today. Thank you for the floor.
u2014-09-24-292	Thank you. The government has indicated that it does not wish to respond to what has been said. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély applied for a post - agenda speech: " Where are we with the Munkácsy pictures? ' The title is given below. I give you the floor.
u2014-09-24-293	Mr President, It is well known that a piece of the Munkácsy trilogy, the painting before Christ Pilate, was returned to Canada. So far, the trilogy has been one of the biggest cultural and tourist values of the city of Debrecen, and tens of thousands of people have come to Debrecen, both internally and from abroad, to visit the work of Munkácsy. Ecce Homo is owned by the Hungarian state, the American Hungarian businessman Imre Golgota Pákh, and the Canadian Hamilton Art Gallery before Christ Pilate. Even the painter couldn't see the three pictures together. It was first exhibited in 1995 at the Déri Museum in Debrecen. I asked Minister Zoltán Balog a number of questions this summer. In his answers, he said that the negotiations were under way. According to press reports, in August, an advisory board from the leading staff of the Hungarian National Bank also met, which decides, within the framework of the Value Reserve programme, what foreign-owned arts, but invaluable to Hungarians, should be purchased. Since then, it has been discovered several times that the Hungarian National Bank had to buy more important things. However, on the basis of the publication of the judicial portfolio, the government, in a hurry, adopted a decree with which to conclude its own hand in the summer. You can't really bargain with the sellers for the images, you have to stick to the price offer of three of the sellers you asked, but you said you were independent. The big question, then, is what this offer will be like. According to the news leaked from the office, it's about $5 million per picture. As one of the prominent players in the domestic art market said, the three valuations will differ only in so far as they cannot blame them: they were told in pens, they were dictated to them. If all this proves to be true, it can be prearranged that this deal will not be concluded. The new offer would not be in the context of the international valuations published by the Watcher Online either. They double the value of giant paintings to $10 million. It is feared that the domestic cream of the profession, they say in the world of art collectors, can easily be laughed at by a frivolous valuation which seeks to disprove the claims of experts in world-famous auction houses, but that should be your problem. The bigger problem is that in this case, the deal that the public so hopes for is going to be nothing. According to the press, Lajos Kósa, the outgoing mayor of Debrecen, who campaigned several times with the Munkácsy pictures, went to Canada in September in hopes of buying back the painting entitled "Before Christ Pilate" from the Hamilton Gallery, which in July was forced to be hung from the wall of the Déri Museum by a national uproar. It raises a number of questions as to who can now negotiate with the government, whether Lajos Kósa has actually traveled to Canada, how these negotiations stand. We didn't get an answer. Will the Hungarian State buy the Canadian-owned piece of trilogy? If so, when will the Munkácsy painting be returned to our country? We would like to have an answer to that, but I have not received clear, guiding answers to the last two questions from the Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-24-294	Thank you. The government has indicated that it does not wish to respond to what has been said. Márta Demeter applied for a post - agenda address: "Infraction or negligence. " I give you the floor.
u2014-09-24-295	Mr President, Dear House, The level of the defence budget has now reached such dramatic depths that, apparently, has become embarrassing for Viktor Orbán and his government. Today, even in government communication, we are increasingly hearing about the need to increase the defence budget, which has, by the way, been advocated only by the opposition. Following the NATO summit in Wales, Viktor Orbán also stressed the need to increase defence spending. The Minister of Defence made similar statements. In the light of such sentences, do you not think that change can be started by not closing more than HUF 3 billion from the Hungarian Defence Fund? [[20.50]] The situation can be further exacerbated by the fact that Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy at the Conference of the Daily Economy, announced that budget expenditure would be reduced by approximately HUF 1700 billion in the coming years. This Orbán package, which is once again being explained by the level of public debt, is the sovereign debt which, by the way, would not have decreased, but increased, not as a result of Fidesz's action. This Orbán package is nothing more than another restriction. So the question arises, and it becomes urgent how these restrictions will affect the Hungarian Defence budget. How does this change Viktor Orbán's words about raising the defence budget? The Prime Minister promised to raise it. However, this promise did not prevent the government from closing more than HUF 3 billion in this area in the middle of the Ukrainian crisis. According to the relevant government decision, the Ministry of Defence had to notify by 1 August which appropriations will be closed. Given the now recognised low level of the defence budget, the degree of sealing imposed is far from negligible, and therefore there is reason to believe that the defence wallet represents a serious planning task in terms of how this amount can be managed in the event of permanent withdrawal. On the other hand, the Minister was unable to answer my written question on the proposed austerity measures. He only said that the withdrawal of appropriations was not on the agenda. The Minister's written reply to my question gives me two options. One is that, although the Ministry of Defence prepared the plans for the measures necessary for blocking or subsequent withdrawal, it was not informed by the Minister. The other option is that the Minister informed me correctly, and the Ministry did not have such planning work. In the first case, we are facing violations of the Fundamental Law and the Parliamentary Law. However, the second possibility is much more serious, because the Ministry of Defence and the Hungarian Defence Department may reveal serious negligence. In recent years, the government has permanently hijacked the amounts blocked from the Ministry of Defence budget during the year. Unfortunately, despite the sound of voices, there is nothing we can reasonably count on this year. Thus, the question arises whether the Minister of Defence has failed to comply with his obligation to respond or is indeed waiting for a miracle. Do you really not have any plans to withdraw blocked appropriations? Did the Prime Minister give you a specific promise to unblock the HM? Therefore, I would like to ask you to inform me as soon as possible of the amount of blocking for which appropriations of the Ministry of Defence and the HM chapter have been ordered. After all, only a responsible and predictable policy can guarantee the proper functioning of the Hungarian Defence Forces and the security of Hungarian society.
u2014-09-24-296	Thank you. The government has indicated that it intends to respond in writing to what has been said. Dear Parliament, I thank you for your work, and we will resume the meeting of the Parliament at 9 a.m. Friday morning. I'll close the meeting with this. [[Meeting ended at 20:53 p.m.]]
