u2014-09-16-0	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome all of you and all those who follow our work on television today. The 2nd day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Ádám Mirkóczki will be in charge of the meeting. Speaking before the agenda today, István Ikotity, from the LMP Group, asked: " Will there be a real choice in small towns? " with the title " I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman. I'll wait for him to put the mic on. Take your time. Here you go. You have the floor.
u2014-09-16-1	Thank you very much. Dear House, Long before the municipal elections, the LMP pointed out that the new rules that will enter into force after the election would significantly reduce the salaries of small town mayors, and there is a risk that in many places no one will run for election, or there will be no meaningful choice. Unfortunately, we were right, with the end of the recommendation period, the harmful trends on which we have drawn attention are clear. There are two settlements where there is no candidate for mayor at all, and also two where there were not enough candidates, and therefore there is no election on 12 October. According to the September 11th data, Baranya Kishajmás and Tanakajdon, Vas county, did not start as many candidates as they could be selected. In the absence of a candidate for mayor, the mayor's election will be cancelled at Aparhanton in Tolna County and Tanakajdon in Vas County. This was not the case in 2010. There are also many small settlements where only one candidate can be chosen. Four years ago, there were 493 of these, but now there are nearly 50 percent, 724 such settlements, where only one candidate can be chosen. According to the rules that enter into force after the municipal elections, the remuneration of the mayors of the settlements under 500 is reduced to approximately HUF 149 thousand gross per month. This means that the leader of a small village will have to manage his office for less than 90 thousand forints. Thus, the head of the settlement receives less benefits than his employees can bring home. In fact, the mayor may receive nearly as much wages as the handiworker he employs, a public worker, or less than a skilled worker who works for the public. We warned you that the decrease in mayor's salary is a significant selection of potential candidates. For the most part, candidates will be those whose financial situation allows them to perform their duties with a smaller salary or those who are otherwise supported by a political party. The less affluent, independent people, who wish to do something for their settlements, are already excluded from the start stone, simply cannot afford to leave. So the small kings and the party people will have this opportunity. The LMP therefore demanded that the salaries of small-town mayors be restored at least to the original level before the nomination period. When the nomination period was over, this ship had already left, as the figures show, much fewer people dared to run for office in this year's elections. Of course, Fidesz may recover the original salary after the elections, but this is the same procedure as in the trade-options when the potential profit margin for the activity was increased after the deadline for the submission of the tender. Friends and insiders received the concession more easily, almost without competition, thus excluding people who, under the original conditions, did not see it worthwhile to go. It is feared that small settlements will be led by people less supported and more vulnerable to major politics, and that the ability of small settlements to assert their interests will be further reduced, leading to further destruction of the Hungarian countryside. The decline in the number of people living in small settlements also results in less political participation in the representation of people living in small settlements, resulting in a deterioration in the quality of public services and the possibility of secondary citizens living there. If they no longer have the first man to speak for them, then the fate of these communities has been permanently sealed. The aim of the LMP is for communities living in small settlements to control their own destiny, which must base their autonomy on their own economic strength and self-sustaining capacity. We would like to draw the attention of the governing parties to the enormous historical responsibility of trying to reverse the process of depopulation of the countryside, of taking steps towards achieving the strong countryside announced by the LMP, or by taking such measures as a drastic reduction in the salaries of small town mayors, they are pushing the countryside further towards the gap. The LMP consistently stands up for small settlements with an increasingly low level of interest, but key to the survival of rural life, because their small settlement has a key role to play in the implementation of the renewable Hungary of the future. Thank you for listening.
u2014-09-16-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-09-16-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I'd like to reassure everyone that your fears are not supported by the nominations of the municipal elections. Everyone can check these on the National Election Office website. In 2010, a total of 8752 mayoral candidates were elected, 8139 in 2014, according to yesterday's summary. That's about a 7 percent drop. Again, numbers 8752 and 8139. So, by magnitude, the number of candidates running for mayor in municipal elections is roughly the same as the number of candidates running in 2010. The same is true, however, although it has not been mentioned by the Member of the Council, in the case of candidates for local elections, 8590 candidates have been elected in the 2010 municipal elections and 8297 are now running in the 2014 municipal elections. Therefore, neither the number of candidates for mayor nor the number of candidates for representatives can be shown by a drastic, substantial reduction. As regards the regulation, although Mr President mentioned this in part, I would like to note that the rules on conflicts of interest have changed substantially compared to the situation in 2010. The municipal law provides for a differentiation of the conflicts of interest of the mayors in relation to the population of the municipalities. With regard to the regulation, I must point out that, unlike before, the law does not contain any restrictions on the number of inhabitants in respect of the way in which the mayor functions. In other words, in any settlement, the office can be filled either as a principal or as a social assignment. It is known that earlier this was only possible in the smallest settlements. To sum up, therefore, the problem that the Member has said, we can examine it from the perspective of electoral procedural rules and examine it from the point of view of nominations. And I can assure everyone that, as I said, the number of candidates for mayor and municipal candidates has decreased by about 7 percent. This cannot be considered as a basic problem of your remuneration. If there is a settlement where there is no candidate for mayor, it is worth examining whether there really is no candidate for mayor because of the prize, or simply because there has not been a person in that local community, or there has not been a person who would take the competition in the elections. [[9.10]] Dear House and Honourable Public Opinion, I would therefore like to reassure you that the new rules on remuneration, the new municipal electoral rules, have not substantially reduced the candidates, and I wish to all of you that out of the more than 8,000 mayoral candidates, everyone will find the right candidate for mayor. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-16-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, From the MSZP Group, Mr Bertalan Tóth applied for a speech before the agenda: "To the margins of foreign exchange credit recovery." Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-09-16-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Today is an important day, as today is the day for the negotiation of legislation on compensation for damages arising from the unfair procedure of banks. This is important for foreign exchange creditors, and I think it is important for all Hungarian citizens. Yesterday, we could listen to Prime Minister say that the government is actually doing an act of heroism, since he is, in a manner of speaking, making the banks account, the payment obligations arising from the unfair procedure, now have to be paid. We've heard percentages here, we've heard the dates, we've heard the dates, and that's the law we're about to negotiate. But very little has been said about foreign exchange lenders. I see the government has forgotten the outcome of their struggle to negotiate this law today. This is not the result of the government, but of the foreign exchange credentials, of the hundreds who did not leave it and filed lawsuits, and the result of these court proceedings was that the Curia had declared this unfair procedure concerning the exchange rate gap and the unfair, unilateral interest rate increase. They should be thanked, thank you, for the legal protection organisations, for the associations, for the lawyer communities that helped the foreign exchange lenders in these lawsuits, on the basis of which this mansion decision could have been made. Foreign exchange lenders had to face two things: the unfair procedure of banks and the drastic deterioration of the exchange rate. I think that there will be a response to the fact that the previous governments are responsible for the foreign exchange credit problem, and we can listen to this, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that the activity relating to the bank's unfair procedure has been very late, because you have been on the government for four years, and the fact that the wrong economic policy has resulted in exchange rates even today cannot be ignored, that the euro was still HUF 265 in 2010, the Swiss franc 186, when you took over government. You have to see the exchange rate for the euro is now 315 forints and nearly 260 forints for the Swiss franc. The government has a responsibility in this, and even the Parliament has a responsibility. During the summer, a promise was made that foreign exchange lenders would no longer have to deal with this problem at Christmas, as the forinting will take place. This has nothing to do with court proceedings, as it is now said, that the various deadlines have been pushed forward next year, and payments will only be reduced next year. It's completely independent of that. We are asking for this promise, and we are submitting a parliamentary resolution - the Hungarian Socialist Party's election asked the faction to do so - which is about the government keeping its promise and proposing the forinting this year. And we are also proposing in this proposal for a decision to do so at the average price in April 2010, obviously in such a way that this does not jeopardise Hungary's financial stability. So one part of the problem is what this bill solves today, which we are going to debate about today, but the bigger problem is the exchange rate change, and the solution to that problem is waiting for you, because we should not forget that the volume of payments has increased by more than 70 percent since 2010. And we can't go past the fact that this has the result of the government's poor economic policy. We're waiting on the government's proposals for a solution. We will now support this bill, and we hope that a reassuring solution will be found for everyone this year. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-16-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given on behalf of the Government by Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-09-16-7	Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, today the debate of a law of historical significance comparable to the laws of justice at the time of the change of regime begins in Parliament, and, of course, the MSZP also has a role in this historic justice system. Let us look at the role of the MSZP in this foreign exchange credit crisis. During the eight years of their government, banks were freed, and during the eight years of their government, the very large number of contracts with hundreds of thousands of foreign currency loans were concluded under standard terms that now, in 2014, the courts and, in part, the legislature had to remedy. So in the period between 2002 and 2010, you took responsibility for Hungarian consumers, Hungarian people's consumer contracts and contracts with financial institutions, you played your part. These foreign currency credit contracts were clearly concluded during your period of notice. If today the House begins to negotiate this historic law, it can remedy all the violations caused by the banks in addition to the irresponsible nature of the governance of the MSZP, because the government led by the Hungarian Socialist Party has done nothing to prevent unfair contracts from being concluded by the banks, and has done nothing to prevent unilateral treaty amendments. The current government has made every effort in this cycle and in the previous period to make the situation of foreign exchange lenders and other consumer borrowers easier. The bill we're discussing is about accounting banks, banks are going to account for their clients under the law. So we're going to create this law for foreign exchange credentialers and house credulists and consumers. I am very pleased that the MSZP has applied to vote in favour of this law, but it would have been better if it had done everything in its power to prevent the crisis that the Parliament has now to solve together. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-16-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, He also applied for a speech before the agenda, from the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr Imre Vejkey: " Christian persecution. " I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-09-16-9	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Since the age of the apostles, or since the first Christian generation, Christians have been openly or enveloped in attacks for their faith, all of which are called Christian persecution. Even the early Christians did not seek conflict with the world, and they even found a certain modus vivendi against the Jewish and pagan authorities on the basis of Jesus'words: give Caesar what is Caesar's, God's, which is God's. [[Matthew 22:21]] . But when we consider the further text of the Scriptures, we also face the fact that Herod, who had just been born, was almost still in manger, persecuted him as a child, for after visiting the wise men in the east, he commanded his soldiers to kill all the boys under two years of age in Bethlehem. We call them the little saints. [[9.20]] Christians didn't hurt anyone, they lived in peace, but their goodness and love caught the eye of those who persecuted them, who didn't like to see a more complete life in which we don't collect earthly treasures, and we don't prey on worldly pleasures, as the pursuers and their clients did. The fear of confrontation and change from clean life has often triggered religious, economic, and political reasons for the persecution of Christians because of disorder or treason. However, ancient interrogations show that the pursuers found nothing more than the Christians who had been subjected to the procedure and interrogated, only that they had promised a clean life of love, and although they had done nothing wrong, they were punished for their so - called stubbornness to cleanliness and the practice of their forbidden religion, which in legal language the persecuted expressed as secret and forbidden associations of Christians. Ladies and Gentlemen, What about today? In the so - called humanized part of the world, the objective knowledge and knowledge of Christian teaching in social terms has now become almost as impossible as it was during the open Christian persecution of the first centuries. Of course, there are exceptions to this, including our country, which, because of this, because of the commitment of Christian national values, is in the crossfire of constant international political attacks. On the humanized side of the world, Christian values are relativity, and faith is described as unscientific. Ladies and Gentlemen, What about the other side of the world? The news from there tells us that, for example, in Iraq, one of the world's most important Christian communities is being decimated. According to the Chaldish bishop, an explicit genocide is taking place against Christians. And from Syria, next to Iraq, we are told that eight Christians have been crucified. Obviously, there are apocalyptic conditions. They destroy Christian holy places one by one, and they pursue those who move from there. The other day, for example, in Mosul, a 1,800 - year - old church was set on fire, and monks were sent away by an IV. A monastery of the century was also adopted. Christians were given an ultimatum, either to pay the $450 monthly head tax that they would not be able to pay, or to convert to Islam, or to die. Ladies and Gentlemen, Let us not allow hatred and exclusion to threaten the lives of millions of innocents. KDNP and ISC stand up for the persecuted and call on extremists to stop violence and Christians [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Abort attacks against him. Please stand up for me. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-09-16-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Miklós Soltész, State Secretary, responds to what has been said on behalf of the Government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-09-16-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, what you have said is a serious social, global political problem that I think Europe, North America, has noticed very late. 1,700 years after the great persecutions ceased, the world's well - feeling peoples, nations, politicians and people were shocked by what is happening now, whether in Iraq or Syria, but also in some African states, I might add. It cannot be done, and it cannot be measured by double standards, that wherever there is anything happening in the world, everyone there immediately raises their word to what is otherwise very right, but in the meantime, if thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of Christians are driven away, destroyed, and destroyed by methods that you have mentioned or are subjected to a terrible death, it is simply an outrage, and it must be raised against everyone. It is certainly important to say and stress, as Pope Francis said, that today there are no fewer martyrs dying for their faith than in the first centuries of Christian persecution. So it is definitely a traumatic time, and I therefore think that it is worth knowing, on the one hand, about the countries where this is the most happening. One is Iraq, and this is not about the Iraqi state, but it is about a terrorist organization that is calling itself a state, but that is important, it is destroying Christians most of the time, but unfortunately also people of other religions and other faiths. And it has to be said that this destruction may not stop. So if Europe, North America, and the Islamic states that truly place their state arrangements on religious beliefs are indeed linked to faith, then I do not believe that they can pass on this destruction, this hatred, because unfortunately, there is the same in Syria, and unfortunately, the same in Sudan, Nigeria or Pakistan. I must stress once again that while in this religious robe they are doing what they are doing in the name of Islam, both the Hungarian state and the leaders of the Member States of the European Union have finally realized that this is a hate campaign for a terrorist organization. What has the Hungarian government done, and what can we Hungarian people do, as well as any good party? I do not believe that there is too much debate between political sides on this issue here in Parliament. On 10 August, Parliamentary State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó drew both the NATO and the Council of Europe's attention to the responsibility that our countries and the international organisations that we are members of must act and speak up in each area. On the other hand, what I consider very important is that, within the framework of the European Council on 30 August, and here it is important to point out that the Visegrád Four states have made a joint declaration after which a joint declaration of condemnation was made. I know that this is not enough, and on the other hand, it is certain that a tremendously difficult decision can prevent them from interfering with the Iraqi state and helping them to stop this persecution, or that hatred campaign in any other country, but we must take advantage of every opportunity, use it to ensure that the media does pay attention, pay attention to the public, and thus make sure that the community of democratic states does not go on, of course, in the long term and in the short term. In addition, I would also like to thank the Hungarian Catholic Bishop's Faculty, the Hungarian Government and, of course, the charitable organisations and the media staff who have undertaken to deliver or collect humanitarian aid and, on the other hand, those who have jointly undertaken to distribute it on the spot and reported on these sites. They're gonna do an amazing job, but if they don't do it, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Then we don't even know that much. Thank you very much for your suggestion, and thank you for the fact that, by the way, once again, I think politically that no one else in this Parliament is thinking about this matter in any other way. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-09-16-12	Dear Parliament, From the Jobbik Group " Let us not abandon the Hungarians of Transcarpathia! Mr Szávay asked for an opportunity to speak before the agenda. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-09-16-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I wish Uncle Pali a happy birthday, who is 100 years old today. Happy birthday. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Mr. Secretary. This weekend I was in Transcarpathia, I was informed, I talked to a lot of people, I had a misfortune to experience disillusionment, lack of prospects, fear of the future. I ask you not to come again to the better alarm; instead, you should be able and willing to face the facts, face the real situation in Transcarpathia, and face the fact that this situation has arisen partly because of your sluggish and one-sided policies. [[9.30]] The horror of calls continues to threaten the Transcarpathian Hungarians and the inhabitants of Transcarpathia in a war that has little to do with. In the villages, mostly, only women, older and gypsies remained, most of the men who could, left, fled. It is feared that they will be followed by their families after a while, and that Ukrainian refugees will be deployed in their homes. Installations are another issue on which only one sentence has never been mentioned by the Hungarian government. The plans for resettlement of Crimean and eastern Ukraine refugees within Ukraine are ready, and this also concerns the Hungarian villages. This could mean a violent change in nationality, prohibited by a number of international conventions. When will the government finally be willing to speak out against this? In addition, in recent months, in recent years, how the linguistic, minority rights of the Transcarpathian Hungarians and, by the way, of Ukrainian ethnicities have been restricted, whether in education or in the administration, adding that one of the main causes of the East Ukraine conflict is that the Russian community living there has been suppressed or their ethnic and linguistic rights restricted. In recent months, it has been proven that the word and promises of the Ukrainian power are worth exactly as much as they were 23 years ago, when the Ukrainian leadership of that time promised to establish autonomy when the Hungarian-Ukrainian Treaty was signed, in this connection there was a valid referendum in Transcarpathia, which would have aimed at the autonomy of Transcarpathia and the creation of a Hungarian autonomous region with a Beregszász-based focus. Why does this question never appear in the government rhetoric? Why do you never talk about the need to create Hungarian-Russian or Ruthenian-Hungarian autonomy when there is a situation, when you have the opportunity to enforce the national interest of Hungarian diplomacy again? It was proven how much the word of Ukrainian power is worth when, a few weeks ago, President Porosenko slapped the Hungarians of Transcarpathia in the face - and partly you, your politics so far - at the time when he promised the Hungarian Cultural Association of Transcarpathia, in exchange for support, to establish, among other things, the independent Hungarian electoral district, so that it could be elected directly by Hungarian representatives. Well, President Porosenko didn't keep that promise either. Today, the European Parliament is voting on the Ukrainian Association Convention. Once again, you are preparing to make unconditionally one-sided gestures to this Ukrainian state power, without taking advantage of this opportunity, without making it clear that the interests of the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia are the priority for Hungary. In recent months, we have heard a number of government statements about it - it has a very bad echo in Transcarpathia, I assure you - that Ukraine's territorial integrity is the most important thing for the Hungarian government. For Jobbik, the interests of the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia are the most important, and we would be pleased if the government finally considered this as its primary task. The Hungarian community in Transcarpathia needs clear, strong and firm support from Hungary, and to ensure that we are able to act in their best interests in a united manner - in as much unity as possible, in as much consensus as possible and as decisively as possible. Jobbik proposed to convene a Hungarian-Hungarian round table two weeks ago, and we made a very loose proposal with the participation of the Hungarian government, the parliamentary parties, the Transcarpathian parties, churches and the Hungarian representative there, although we indicated that we could see other invited parties. Only the Hungarian Democratic Alliance of Ukraine, the Hungarian representatives of the Ukrainian Parliament and the LMP responded. For two weeks, the government has not been able to answer this question, although action should be taken, it would be necessary to clearly and firmly state our terms and expectations. Jobbik would be open to the establishment of such a consensus, with all its criticisms. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] or at least to find the minimum common points for the Hungarians of Transcarpathia. I look forward to the government's response to our suggestion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2014-09-16-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary L. Simon László responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-09-16-15	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Member, It wouldn't be a problem with your speech if you hadn't used your speech to pick on the Orbán government which, by means of the unification of the nation, has gained incredible merit, to scold and to account for things that are completely unfounded. [[István Szávay intervenes.]] Talking about a sluggish policy, Mr. Congressman, in this case it is an exaggeration, because in recent months, as in the past four years, the Hungarian government has constantly expressed its commitment to the Hungarians of Transcarpathia in all matters, to the spiritual and spiritual unification of the Hungarians of the Carpathian Basin, and that is why it is working. Let's look at some specifics. The events of the last few months also rightly concern the Hungarian government. The questions you have formulated - not about the government, but about the situation of Transcarpathian Hungarians - are all real problems, legitimate problems, and in these matters the government is speaking effectively both in public and in diplomacy, but in order to be clear about our position, I am explaining this to you. On the one hand, we were saddened by the fact that Valery Luncsenko was dismissed by the Ukrainian President, acting as governor of the Hungarian Republic of Transcarpathia in March 2014 and in close contact with the Hungarian Cultural Association of Transcarpathia. We only hope that the new governor, the acting leader, Vaszil Hubal, will be positive in the interests of the Hungarians, and we expect this on behalf of the Hungarian government, that the currently temporarily head of the county will also have a proper attitude towards the Transcarpathian Hungarians. We know that in July a partial mobilisation was ordered in Transcarpathia, which affected the Hungarians, both our State Secretary for National Policy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are constantly informed about this issue and also initiated discussions. Minister Tibor Navracsics specifically agreed and asked Pavlo Klimkin's Ukrainian colleague for information on military mobilisation. Obviously, it is in our interest that this mobilization in Transcarpathia of our fellow Hungarian ethnicity should be the least affected. We also have to consider that in recent months there have been quite a lot of refugees from eastern Ukraine to Transcarpathia, with more than 1,300 refugees moving into Transcarpathia. Obviously, it is in our interest that the members of the Hungarian parts of the nation can live as much as possible in their own place of birth with their own rights. What you have said, Congressman, is deeply worrying. The fact that President Porosenko signed the decree on the dissolution of Parliament on 25 August and announced the early elections on 26 October and, after all this, did not comply with the agreements concluded with KMKZ, and that the Ukrainian Central Election Commission had not established a Hungarian constituency in Transcarpathia as promised, I agree with you, Mr President. We consider that there has been a gross violation of the rights of the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia, and that the Hungarian government is in solidarity with the Hungarians in Transcarpathia. We will also support and strengthen them from here, and we will also act with the means of diplomacy in order to ensure that the Hungarians in Transcarpathia have the right to self-determination, and that Ukrainian President Porosenko will, by the way, keep his promise and even his agreement with KMKSZ. In addition, I must say to you that in the last four years and in the last few months, since the third Orbán government has been operational, we have been very effective in supporting Transcarpathian Hungarians. I have to highlight II. Ferenc Rákóczi The situation of the Hungarian College of Transcarpathia; the special support for the investment of Szent István Líceum in Munkács, the construction of the College of the Reformed Líceum in Nagybereg, was handed over by Minister Balog on 23 August; a separate government decision was taken on the operational support of the Greek Catholic Lyceum in Sztojka Sándor in Karácsfalva. In 2014 this lyceum will also receive HUF 80 million and HUF 120 million in 2015 to build a new gym and college. The renovation of educational and cultural and social institutions operating in more than 50 Hungarian language areas in Transcarpathia has been completed in the past short period, and the government supports the renovation of Transcarpathian public institutions with an additional $500,000. Contacts from both the Ministry, the State Secretary for National Policy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and we stand firmly for the self-determination and political rights of Transcarpathian Hungarians. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[9.40]]
u2014-09-16-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament! " He asked for the opportunity to speak before the agenda on the statute of limitations of sexual offences against children from the Fidesz Group, Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-09-16-17	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Dear fellow Members, The Sipos case exploded this summer, pointing out that there may be sexual crimes committed to harm children whose perpetrators we cannot be held liable for limitation. Therefore, last week in Tapolca, the Fidesz-KDNP faction decided that this should not stay that way, that the criminal code should be tightened up in order that these crimes should not lapse, so that those who commit such crimes can be punished even after years. Anyone who thinks something like that knows for the rest of his life that he can be beaten by the law at any time. People who are about to commit such crimes, who are thinking that children are being molested, abused, know that from now on, by amending the criminal code, they can expect to be punished for the rest of their lives. Don't let these people get away with hurting our children, molesting our children. These crimes are characterized by the fact that victims, abused children and their families, and their parents, often carry the trauma they suffered for a very long time, so it often comes to light in a long, long period of years, talking about the abuse that these children have suffered, the harm they have suffered. The children are the first for Fidesz, so in the last cycle we have modified the Code of Criminals by pushing the statute of limitations and saying that age counts for limitation. So, until you're 23 years old, you can start a case against the perpetrator until you're an adult. But this incident that exploded this summer revealed that it was little, that it had to be tightened up, that it had to be tightened up further. In English, sexually motivated crimes committed to harm children should not lapse. Fidesz has already tightened other laws, modified them to prevent these crimes, or, if these crimes have already been committed, to tighten them up. Let me mention that we have already accepted child-friendly interrogation rooms in the previous cycle, now there are at least such child-friendly interrogation rooms in all counties, and we have prepared hundreds of colleagues, and we have trained them to deal with them. Or let me remind you that we have amended the legislation to ensure that those who have committed serious crimes in the past to harm children are not allowed to carry out activities related to the education, supervision and care of children. But this is not enough, so let me also draw attention to the fact that society and the media have a responsibility in these matters. In order to prevent anyone who commits such a crime from getting away with it, I am today submitting a amendment to the Criminal Code in order to protect children, so that those who commit sexual crimes to harm children do not end up being punished, the perpetrators should count for the rest of their lives for the consequences of their depraved actions. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support this amendment. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from government parties and Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-16-18	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, responds to the points raised by the Member. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-09-16-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The type of crime that the congresswoman was talking about is one of the worst crimes, since it is that someone is taking advantage of the fact that someone is in charge of her supervision, someone is in charge of her care, someone has some influence, and the other person is essentially indefensible because of their physical condition, because the child is obviously unable to defend physically and spiritually against an adult, because he cannot place where the situation in which he might be able to do so. This is not just a case, because if we look at crime statistics, there are a lot of these cases, about 10,000 children who are victims or witnesses of sexual or aggressive crimes every year, and for this, they will cause some kind of trauma that they carry for the rest of their lives, as it also turns out from sociologists' research, and they will apply aggression much more afterwards, and this kind, even as they have seen in their childhood, has experienced not only as a victim, but also as a witness, they will not be able to process and distort their character as well as their growth. It is therefore important for the State to act very effectively, very strictly and without contradiction to one of the most vulnerable groups to protect children. It is always the duty of the State to stand on its weaker side, including in this matter, and therefore it is necessary to threaten, without contradiction, strict punishments and to protect children who may be victims of such crimes by an effective system of child protection. As the congresswoman pointed out, in the previous four-year term, we have presented two sets of laws on this issue, which aim to increase the threat, on the one hand, and to serve prevention, on the other hand, and, on the third, to reduce the very high visibility of this type of crime, i.e. the number of crimes that were not reported, and to expose as many crimes as possible. One of the steps was the tightening of the rules mentioned by the Member, which entered into force in the Criminal Code as of July 2013. In the case of rape against children, this has significantly tightened the punishments, thus deterring potential offenders and even imposing penalties on children to force them to commit sexual acts without the use of violence or a life-threatening threat. So it's easier to prove it in court in these cases. In certain cases, it has abolished the obligation of the private initiative, so that the authorities can act either on the basis of a complaint or on their own initiative. This is intended to reduce the visibility mentioned, precisely so that everyone who commits such a crime will enjoy the hospitality of the prison, because they belong there, not near children. The limitation periods have already been amended in two parts. We pushed it out, as you said, in the first round, until the age of 23 in 2012, and then we made the amendment to which you referred, Congresswoman, that every person from the age of 18 can re-enact, until the statute of limitations rests, and this period opens again from the age of 18. So someone can press charges until they're 33. It is in our interest to have this as soon as possible, even before the age of 18 or soon after the age of 18, because proof is becoming more and more difficult as the years pass. So it's important for us to make this kind of announcement as soon as possible, this kind of complaint. In order not to cause another trauma, or to cause as little trauma as possible to victims or witnesses, we have introduced the system of child-friendly hearing rooms at all county precincts, as Congresswoman said. These rooms, furnished in such a way as a child's own home room, have toys in them, natural lighting, natural ventilation, there is a glass window that does not crowd five or six people into the room, but only one or two people listen to the minor, the others watch the witness' hearing through a glass wall, and, of course, record that later this can be used as evidence. And we hope that this will also help to reduce, not to listen to these children in a crowded room full of criminals, who, unfortunately, will once again experience every minute of this terrible act, but also to reduce the trauma and thus improve the effectiveness of detection, because we trust that this will make it easier and more detailed for these children to tell them what they saw or what happened to them. Therefore, the government is open to any amendments to this criminal group, which is an intolerable criminal group, acting as strictly as possible. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-16-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. [[9.50]] It follows now that the 2014 XXXVIII on the resolution of certain issues relating to the Curia's joint decision on consumer lending contracts in financial institutions will follow. a general discussion of the bill on the rules of accounting laid down by law and on certain other provisions until closure. The submission was made in T/1272. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. First, I give the floor to Mr László Trócsányi, Minister of Justice, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame, who will speak from this platform. We'll wait for Minister to wake up on the platform. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2014-09-16-21	Dear Parliament, Mr President, The last time I stood before this House, I was able to present to you the important step of the government to save foreign exchange credentials. Following my oath as a minister, one of the most important tasks for me was to build the legal framework for the protection of creditors as soon as possible. As the Curia adopted Decision No 2/2014 on 16 June 2014. The judicial portfolio, which was the decision of the Court of Justice, immediately began to develop the necessary legislative steps. As a result, the National Assembly adopted the XXXVIII of 2014 at its meeting on 4 July 2014, i.e. within three weeks. Law, which brought the Curia's decision as a legal unit to a legal level, creating a clear position for debtors and the financial institutions concerned. Thank you for your almost unanimous support for the adoption of that law at that time. I had already indicated that a number of issues would require new legislation to be resolved. In terms of complexity, the issue of accounting is also highlighted. In recent months, the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the NGM and the Hungarian National Bank, and in consultation with the National Court of Justice, has worked with great forces to resolve the issues of settlement for all consumer loans, in addition to solving the problem of foreign exchange lenders. The result of this crucified work is the bill that I am now presenting to the Parliament. The protection and legal settlement of debtors of consumer loan contracts is currently one of the most urgent problems in Hungary. The task is difficult, which was also referred to yesterday by Prime Minister in his speech before the agenda. However, this is a unique undertaking which requires the widest possible social consensus. There is an opportunity here in Parliament to propose better proposals, but I would ask that, before the vote on the bill is cast, they also take into account the fact that these laws affect more than one and a half million Hungarian citizens. It should also be made clear that the proposal is a second stage in a process. The bill presented to this House must not be seen on its own, but as part of the process that ends with the creation of new rules on consumer loans. Our aim is to create a new regulatory environment that is understandable and transparent to the consumer. We would like to create a legal situation within a few months in which Hungarian consumers should be protected at least as much as the guarantees provided to consumers in countries of foreign parent banks. However, all steps in the final legal settlement process are needed to achieve this objective as soon as possible. Any element of this process would be uncertain, the ultimate objective would be to create a European level of protection for Hungarian consumers. It can therefore be seen how closely this second law is linked to the previous legislation. The lawsuits launched under the first legislation started on 15 August 2014 and 78 lawsuits are currently under way. The legislation, which is the first part of the legal settlement, has therefore been put into effect, but the process itself has not yet been completed. In this connection, I would like to briefly address the press reports that stated that in three pending trials, the determining judge suspended the proceedings and turned to the Constitutional Court. As a professor of constitutional law and as a former constitutional judge, I have a firm legal position that the contested legislation complies with the provisions of the Fundamental Law in all respects and stands the test of constitutionality. In this regard, I sent my amicus curiae opinion in writing to the Constitutional Court last week, and in view of the further suspensions, I will add further comments this week. I would like to briefly rebut two arguments here. It is a common accusation on the part of banks that the previous law is contrary to the prohibition of retroactive legislation. However, this law did not create any new substantive rights, but merely took over the rules of the Curia's legal unit decision. On the basis of the decision of the European Court of Justice of 30 April 2014, the Court of Justice interpreted and clarified the provision of the Ptk. on unfairness. However, this definition of unfairness has been part of Hungarian law since 1 May 2004, the accession of Hungary to the European Union. The practice of the European Court of Justice is also constantly evolving, inter alia, in relation to Directive 93/13 on unfair contracts in consumer contracts. However, the European Court of Justice has never been accused of applying the law retroactively. With regard to retroactive effect, I would finally like to quote a previous decision of the Curia in principle, the Civil College 2/2012. Point 6 which states: "It does not conflict with the prohibition of a retroactive application if the court finds, on the basis of the provisions of the Ptk. in force at the time of the conclusion of the contract, the unfairness of the general contract condition for reasons which are subsequently governed by the separate law, where appropriate using the experience of established case-law. " That's what happened in our case. However, there are no other reasons why it is illegal to legislate, and in relation to the protection of acquired rights, judicial motions refer to the statute of limitations. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. However, law did not impose a new statute of limitations, the law only lays down that practice, since, in the case of continuous long-term relationships, the limitation period begins after the termination of the legal relationship. Therefore, as long as the contract is in place, there is no question of limitation. They also do not stand up for reasons of conflict in EU law. The Government informed the President of the European Central Bank of the law and, moreover, the Council of Europe resolution on consultation does not provide for any other legal consequences. In conclusion, I would like to point out once again that the previous law is in line with the provisions of both the Fundamental Law and EU law. It is important because it is based on this law. So obviously this is a constitutional law, and accordingly this legislation will also be a constitutional one. That is why I considered it justified to return a little bit to the previous legislation. And now I will turn to the new legislation that we have also taken into account in the preparation of the accounting law that we have just tabled. Our work was defined above all in Article M of the Fundamental Law, according to which Hungary takes action against abuse of dominant positions and protects consumers' rights. So the Fundamental Law itself obliges us to act. So allow me to present the bill now. One of the main objectives of the Accounting Act is the clearance of overpayments to consumers due to invalid contractual clauses. These past overpayments must be accounted for in the second law by laying down these rules. There is currently neither a binding legal unit decision nor a specific court decision to settle such past overpayments. For this reason, the legislator had to define the general principles of accounting by means of a more abstract interpretation based on a broader analysis of judicial practice and taking into account the principles of civil law. It was also important for the legislator to choose the most favourable solution for the consumer, and this is the early repayment methodology contained in the proposal. In view of this, only the general rules of civil law of the settlement are laid down in the proposal, the Hungarian National Bank is authorised to draw up the detailed rules. In view of the large number of types of consumer credit in practice, it is not possible to define all the detailed rules in the law and even unjustified. [[10.00]] The advantage of regulation at regulation level is that it allows for a more flexible response in the event of the emergence of any new case group than a legislative amendment. However, this does not mean that the principles and foundations of accounting are not contained in the law. Technical details that the Hungarian National Bank must define, which are of course important. The main rule of settlement is that overpayment due to the use of invalid contractual clauses, as I mentioned, should be considered as early repayment. The essence of this is that the consumer should be placed in a position where, since the date of the conclusion of the contract, it has been settled at the legal rate and at the level of the initial interest at the time of the contract. In relation to existing contracts, financial institutions should recalculate the total amount of the debt and also determine future repayments. Accounting at the new exchange rate and interest rate level will reduce both the outstanding amount of the debt and the instalments. In the case of outstanding contracts, the financial institution shall reimburse the overpaying consumer for the remaining debt. In this case, there will be no actual payment of money. The proposal specifically regulates the case where the consumer has an overdue debt vis-à-vis the financial institution, so he did not pay regularly, he paid one month, he paid less the next month, so he has an overdue debt. This can be done if you have paid less than the amount of the current instalment, so you have been late or you have not paid at all since a certain time. In these cases, the old Ptk. 293. §2 and the new Ptk. 6:46. Paragraph 2 shall apply in the course of the clearance of the outstanding debt by the financial institution. According to this, if the debtor is subject to both interest and cost, and the amount paid is not enough to settle the entire debt, it must be accounted for primarily for the cost, then for the interest and finally for the principal debt. In the case of contracts terminated by contract performance, the overpayment in part means that the contract was actually terminated at an earlier date, i.e. expired contracts. From that earlier date, the debtor no longer had a foreign exchange payment obligation for foreign exchange-based contracts. Once there is no legal relationship, you have to look at the basis on which it can be accounted for. Any overpayment from that date should therefore be reimbursed in accordance with the rules of unjust enrichment. It is good that we know that the civil code has a secondary definition of unjust enrichment as a title. This means, therefore, that the overpayment must be calculated in accordance with the general rules governing existing contracts by the correct date of termination of the contract. However, payments made after termination shall be reimbursed to the debtor in accordance with the rules of unjust enrichment. In the case of closed, terminated contracts, the overpayment will therefore be actually paid by the financial institution to the consumer. For settlement relating to terminated contracts, the five years prior to the entry into force of the previous law shall be taken as the basis. This means that the financial institutions are subject to the clearing obligation in relation to contracts terminated after 26 July 2009. So anyone who took five years, ten years, in 2007 or 2006, is, of course, referring to him, since he had a living contract in 2009. However, the clearing obligation is also linked to contracts that had been terminated before 2009 if it can be demonstrated that there was no limitation period, but there must be evidence. Financial institutions may have granted different discounts to debtors. The financial institution also has a constitutionally acceptable interest in the fact that the law must take account of these advantages in the course of the settlement. It's a constitutional demand, that's all right. On this basis, the law states that the financial institution is entitled to deduct the amount of the benefit previously granted to the consumer, so that the legislation is in balance. The proposal sets out specific rules for three cases that were previously dealt with by law. One: preferentially cancelled consumer loans. That's about 180,000 contracts. However, it should be noted that in the case of end-of-payment consumers, a comparison should be made between the previously received benefit and the overpaid amount and only the difference, if any, is due to the consumer. National Asset Management Ltd. the consumer loan contracts relating to residential property purchased by the company, which concern approximately ten thousand closed cases and purchased real estate and 10 400 ongoing house sales; here the creditors of the National Asset Management Ltd. can request a settlement, the National Asset Management Ltd. ask the financial institution. Finally, consumer loan contracts affected by the exchange rate barrier, which are in the case of some 170 thousand debtors, are overpaid in the case of exchange rate blockers, primarily credited to the collector account. The proposal will provide for separate claims which it has allocated to the banking factor companies, i.e. debt managers. Accounting under the proposal represents a correction in the present, without prejudice to closed bank balances and tax returns. This correction in the present is favourable to the central budget and can be handled by the banks on an IT basis. This also makes the accounts transparent to debtors. The settlement is multi-stage, depending on whether it is a foreign currency or a forint loan, and whether or not the financial institution has filed a lawsuit for the annulment of the presumption set out in the previous law. According to the proposal, if the financial institution has not brought a lawsuit against its foreign exchange-based consumer contracts, it should send the accounts to the consumer between 15 January and 29 January 2015, i.e. the settlement. However, if the financial institution has filed a lawsuit for the annulment of the presumption and loses the lawsuit, it shall send the accounts to the consumer between 14 February 2015 and 28 February 2015, but not later than 60 days after the final end of the trial. In the case of forint loans, where a financial institution has not filed a lawsuit for the annulment of the presumption, the accounts shall be sent to the consumer between 16 April 2015 and 30 April 2015. However, if the financial institution has filed a lawsuit, the deadline for sending the accounts shall be between 15 August 2015 and 29 August 2015, but not later than 60 days after the end of the trial. The final cancellations shall be cleared by 30 November. So this means that, as you can see, honourable Members, there is a process from January to November 2015, and in this process, the various groups are being cleared in different ways. This is clearly also the case because it is initiated for different periods of time, even so that the courts can handle the lawsuits. Therefore, the year 2015 will in fact be about bank accounts under the law. The proposal provides for a single uniform settlement, including overpayments due to an exchange rate gap and the nullity of a unilateral contractual amendment. This makes sense for the consumer to receive an invoice. The important objective of the proposal is to ensure that there are no complex cases relating to the settlement. Obviously, we also need to protect the courts from the point of view of providing redress, of course, but we need to be able to handle this well. Therefore, if the consumer disputes the accounts drawn up by the bank, and why not dispute it, he may first request a correction from the financial credit institution, who is obviously preparing the accounts. If this fails, you can contact the Financial Reconciliation Board within the framework of the National Bank of Hungary. Following the decision of the Financial Reconciliation Board, both the consumer and the financial institution may initiate a civil non-court procedure, as defined by law, against which an appeal may be brought. So the rule of law is 100% guaranteed to everyone. In addition, the Hungarian National Bank, acting in its power of consumer protection, checks that the financial institutions prepare the accounts according to the MNB regulation. So what we can see is that we are protecting the consumer until the last moment, because the consumer's knowledge does not always correspond to banking knowledge, so we have built in adequate guarantees for the consumer so that he can actually check the accounting process. [[10.10]] Technically, the law also contains rules on how the bank should deliver the settlement, publish what if the consumer is dead, what if it has a new address and the rest, all these had to be considered in this law. The proposal regulates HUF loans in detail. In doing so, it was important that lawsuits relating to forint loans do not overwhelm courts and do not jeopardise the effective and rapid termination of already launched foreign exchange-based lawsuits. Therefore, the proposal provides that, in the case of forint loans, the banks may initiate lawsuits to overthrow the presumption of unfairness at the beginning of January 2015. In addition, a distinction should be made between forint loans according to whether the contractual clause under consideration was in force before 2010. After 2010, forint loans were reduced by interest rates, and a number of laws were adopted to settle them. For this reason, it is appropriate that the contractual clauses applicable to forint loans from 27 November 2010 should be examined first by the Hungarian National Bank in its power of consumer protection. If the MNB finds these contractual provisions unfair, it shall bring an action of general interest. There will be no public interest litigation if the clause is unfair, but the bank did not raise interest on this basis. A change to transparent pricing is not hindered by the fact that the court does not state the nullity of the clauses in these forint loans. However, in respect of contractual clauses in force before 27 November 2010, financial institutions must bring a lawsuit against the presumption of unfairness in the same way as foreign exchange contracts. These forint authentic lawsuits are also governed by the same procedural rules and tight deadlines as the current foreign exchange lawsuits. It seems appropriate to exclude certain types of forint-based credit from the scope of the law, such as credit cards and overdrafts. These are very special products, short term and fixed interest rates. These are special products where the issue of unilateral amendment could not be discussed and pricing is based on other principles. The proposal would provide for the same procedure for foreign exchange contracts as forint-based loans. The main feature of these is that not only the exchange rate has been paid, but the repayment is also carried out in foreign currency. In view of this, these consumer loans are closer to forint-based loans than foreign exchange-based loans, such as those with no exchange rate gap. They would also be governed by different procedural arrangements for entry into force before 2010 and from 2010. The proposal settles the fate of the 12,000 lawsuits brought by the 2014 XXXVIII. I was suspended by law. The aim is to conclude these lawsuits as soon as possible within the constitutional framework. One of the tools for this is that consumers must indicate the nullity consequences that they ask the court to have in place of the finding lawsuits. In the absence of this, the judge is unable to make a realistic decision on the determination of invalidity, and this also serves the exercise of good faith. The legal consequences of nullity and invalidity are two inseparable things. Examples of foreign legal systems also reflect this well. The proposal also provides for certain concessions for debtors who, in view of the settlement, withdraw from their previous earnings. The most important of these is to recover the levy in its entirety and to be exempted from the payment of the other party's costs of litigation. The proposal also provides for interrupted implementation procedures. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. under law, tens of thousands of enforcement procedures have been interrupted. It is important to provide in principle that no new charges may be charged to the executioners in relation to the re-launch. The proposal also provides for separate accounting rules for accounting and related tax changes. The important objective of the proposal is to facilitate the transition to transparent pricing as soon as possible. For this purpose, the proposal provides for a memorandum of interest no later than 30 April 2016, under which the financial institution is not entitled to a unilateral increase in interest, costs or charges. Obviously, a fair banking system must be established, and the issue of interest will play an important role in this. However, the interest rate moratorium will cease if the banks switch to transparent pricing, i.e. fair rules for unilateral increases in interest, costs and fees. The final provisions of the proposal are set out in Annex XXXVIII of 2014. In the meantime, it contains amendments to the Act that have become necessary. Mr. President. Dear House, Like the previous law that I have tabled, I look to the debate with great interest and I am counting on Members' comments and amendments. The debate will also take into account that the important objective of the proposal is to close the period during which unfair proceedings against consumers in the Hungarian banking sector could have been widespread. Following the completion of the accounts with consumers, a new calculation of the Hungarian banking system must begin. It's in our best interest. The new regulation will also meet our expectations in a qualitative sense: ethos and practice will tighten banks' behaviour towards their customers and raise consumer protection to a higher level in this extremely important segment of the economy. The Curia's single-law decision and the treaties now being rectified by the two laws represent a mass and long-term abuse of the dominant position which is dangerous to social justice and the rational functioning of the economy, and even to the rule of law itself. The enforcer, the government and the legislator have responded, and the balance will be restored. Finally, I would like to thank once again the experts of the Ministry of National Economy, the Hungarian National Bank, the National Court Office for their effective assistance in drawing up the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-16-22	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speakers will be held within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Mr Antal Rogán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, who will speak from this platform. I'll wait for Mr. Group Leader to wake up. Thank you very much. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor, please.
u2014-09-16-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that in the Minister's presentation we have heard a rather clear, specific summary of what the law contains, what the principles of law led to the preparatory of the law, the authors of the law when it was formulated, so that this can be a sufficient basis for the debate. But before we do this, allow me to shed some light on the goals that, in my view, make clear to the common man why we thought that banks should be accounted for. Behind us there are a number of years when I have to say that almost all the cancers in the operation of the Hungarian banking system have been discovered. We have experienced the operation of a banking system in Hungary, which seems to have not been restricted, framed, governed by law, the principles and considerations of operation that would well protect the interests of the consumer, i.e. the Hungarian families, in any case, against banks with a considerable influence, huge legal expertise and a great deal of money. Of course, in the market economy, it is also a normal and expected principle for everyone that, by the way, when banks are lending loans, they want to make money with it. I don't think it's debatable. No one wants to take the opportunity of profit away from them. Here's the question of a decent profit. The question is whether the behaviour of the banks has indeed been fair in everything in the past, if we look back now, in 8-10 years, and we can see that, unfortunately, there was a period in Hungary between 2002 and 2010, when neither the legislator, the government, nor the institutions tried to keep banks within the framework of which it would have been appropriate to keep the rules of truly fair lending in Hungary not only to form, but also to be under constant control. [[10.20]] There are two clear indications that control did not exist. One is the foreign currency loan itself as a product. If there had been control over the banking system, the foreign exchange loan would not have been able to spread. Because the emergence of foreign currency credit is not a problem in itself, because why not a part of consumers who think that they will take a serious risk in exchange for the benefits of the moment. But this is not true of the Hungarian citizen who took on the average currency loan. It is not even true because the vast majority of the risks were not known. He was not aware of the risk involved, and that he was actually not only carrying an exchange rate risk, but also because of the lack of regulation, a risk that, since he took on a foreign currency-based loan, his interest rate, his costs, the fees charged on it would be affected in the same way by any change in this regard. Another very important sign is the fact that the regulation of the Hungarian banking system has suffered from a lot of diseases, which is the possibility of unilateral contractual amendments. One-sided treaty amendments, which, I think, also in cases where, say, mass products are distributed, this is finally somewhat imaginable and even within the limits of acceptable practice, because why not be so true if a person is in contact with hundreds of thousands of consumers on the basis of standard standards, then indeed, by changing the standard contract terms, he should clearly indicate how exactly what is changing, because the change of circumstances was accompanied by a change in the terms of the contract. However, they must be placed within very strict limits. The possibility of unilateral contractual amendment has been clearly abused by banks in previous years. And this abuse must be dealt with in the current bill. They changed interest rates using a one-sided contractual amendment, i.e. increasing interest rates from a 6-percent interest rate level to almost 9 per cent in the case of foreign exchange loans, while otherwise the main foreign exchange interest rates showed a downward trend. On the other hand, the practice that could be observed when costs and charges were increased has been applied, using the possibility of unilateral contractual amendment. Finally, the application of the exchange rate gap itself, which, I think, was a true specimen of unfairness, since foreign exchange transactions were accounted for not only when the loan was paid out, but from month to month against all consumers, while, by the way, the Hungarian average family did not buy or sell currency. Nevertheless, he paid for the costs of a fictitious operation, a fictitious exchange of currency all along. Ladies and gentlemen, This shows that on one side we had to establish rules against the Hungarian banking system. I would like to remind everyone that this process started in 2010, when the second civilian government took office, right at the opening of the autumn political season, four years ago, here in the House, with my colleague Lajos Kósa, we tabled a bill banning unilateral treaty amendment and closing the application of the exchange rate gap. However, this was obviously only a decision for the future; it was not able to affect unilateral contractual amendments, interest increases, increases in costs and fees and the exchange rate gap applied until 2010. In order to get to that point, honourable Members, in order to be able to deal with this issue in substance, it was indeed necessary for the courts to contribute. It is no coincidence that, in the past year and a half, we have all urged, not just once, here in Parliament and outside the walls of Parliament, that the summit of the Hungarian judicial system, the resolution of the Supreme Court, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, should be reached as soon as possible in this regard. We have reached the middle of this year that the Curia's position as a legal unit has been made on two subjects. One subject is the unfair application of the exchange rate gap and the other is the unfair use of unilateral contractual amendments, i.e. interest, cost and fee increases. Neither the government nor Parliament subsequently delayed, since, by the beginning of July, after the decisions of the legal unit in June, Parliament had already established a law that gave the start-up step for the accountability of the banks. However, accountability must have strict rules, and these should be established as soon as possible, my honourable Members, because we must not forget that, of course, the banks are doing everything they can to delay this accountability as soon as possible and, if possible, not be complete. To this end, Hungary, especially the largest financial institutions, makes use of the possibility of redress, which is, of course, guaranteed by the law adopted in July, and they are trying to buy time either by turning to the Constitutional Court or European courts. I think that the Minister has made clear the legal arguments on which we believe that the reference to unconstitutionality does not stand up in any way, and it is indeed a time-consuming tactic on the part of the banks. It may be worth telling you whether you have a place in international judicial forums. He also stressed, Minister, I would just like to point out in particular that the Curia acted with extreme caution when deciding on the unity of rights, since it also requested the preliminary opinion of the European Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of Luxembourg. On this basis, it is safe to say that the Curia's resolution as a legal unit reflects the opinion of the European courts and that the law adopted by Parliament is based on the opinion and decision of the Curia. Ladies and gentlemen, From now on, we need to talk about whether this accounting law, which is in front of this House, really complies with the principles on which we believe that the bank must fairly account for the Hungarian families. I believe it is, but we would like to emphasise it once again: this law is also necessary because banks have to account for the Hungarian families. But this settlement doesn't happen for a very long time if we don't get them accounted for. That is why the settlement of the banks must be carried out by the Parliament, and Parliament must determine strictly and precisely the timing of the settlement - so that it is not delayed - and, on the other hand, it must also establish its rules in sufficient detail and thoroughness. This is what is happening in the framework of the current bill. To whom does this help? Let's start by saying that for 1 million 300 thousand Hungarian families it means that the Hungarian banking system against them will have to account for every foreign currency and HUF loan taken. On the other hand, it is clear that this means that all loans received by private individuals must be accounted for by the Hungarian banks. The different types of foreign exchange loans must be accounted for: credit for housing purposes, mortgage for free use, car credit, personal consumer credit. They also have to account for all similar forint loans, all forint contracts and all their forints. Of course, this accounts, given that they go back to the times in which the banks made payments, I think they comply with the strict rules laid down in the Civil Code, which the Minister referred to. On one hand, we will not go beyond July 2009 in the case of closed contracts. If, therefore, someone closed his contract before July 2009, then, obviously, he can no longer have a claim against the banks. However, the limitation period for live contracts is quite different. I think that the Minister has rightly pointed out this: as long as a treaty is in place, the parties may, of course, have a claim against each other. And for any living contract where the debtor still pays to the bank or owes to the bank, the bank obviously has to account for the overpayment that he unfairly took from the debtor. Ladies and gentlemen, These are important principles, because this is where they state how we distinguish between, of course, fair rules, but we are still doing the accounting with the entire banking system. Another very important thing that we should talk about is why we say that in the case of live credit contracts, the final result of the settlement is not a cash payment to the customer. I think that's what you referred to, Minister. On one hand, we would have to cross the civil code currently in force if we were to say that it had to be out of the contract. If, in the case of a living contract, it is assumed that a contract, a living contract, is the basis for a settlement that extends beyond five years, then it is obvious that it must be accounted for within the framework of the contract. The Minister referred to this: the Ptk will give it to you. appropriate guidance. If there is a fee, a debt on a cost basis, first of all, if there is a debt on interest, then, and if there is no such debt, then, obviously, the amount of the capital to be settled and the amount that has taken place in the context of unfair payment or overpayment shall be deducted. [[10.30]] I think that on the other hand, this is much more advantageous for those with a living credit contract. Otherwise, let us say that if they received this in cash from the banks, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there would be no reduction in credit debt; a person pays interest on credit debt. The bank would prefer to be able to deduct additional interest on other larger amounts in the future. Therefore, I believe that not only the rules governing the civil code, but also common sense, suggest that capital should be accounted for and reduced within the existing contract, because it will reduce the real costs of the borrower. In fact, everything else is in the interest of the banks, because they want to keep the loans and after that they can collect even more interest in the future. It is very important that not only the accounting is done, but also the return to fair rules, honourable Members. That is why, in the context of this law, it is not only said that the amount that was overpayment in the context of the settlement must be accounted for, but, in practice, the undue interest rate increase in the unfairly increased interest rate, if I say it now in the ordinary sense, is null and void, so we return to the level of interest that was before it. In addition, we do this in two ways: in the case of those who have taken up a fixed rate loan, instead of the increased interest rate level, we return to the level of credit at the time of admission if the banks lose all the related lawsuits; in the case of those who have taken out a loan relating to a reference rate, the interest margin on the reference rate will, as appropriate, be reduced to its original rate. The borrowers who have thus taken a risk and the level of the reference interest rate has decreased may otherwise be even greater winners of the settlement than those who have taken up a fixed rate loan. But I think that we are also acting in accordance with the rules of the applicable law. Ladies and gentlemen, The last thing I would like to highlight is, as my time is running out, that, of course, this regulation is not just thinking about the past and not just the present, but also about the future, because we really want a fair and fair banking system; one where loans are transparently priced; one where there are no small prints in credit contracts that represent unpredictable relationships for customers. That is why until 30 April 2016, a moratorium on interest rate increases, a moratorium on interest rates, costs and fees will be in place, and during this period, Parliament will be able to establish rules for transparent pricing, fair and fair banking systems for the future. Thank you very much for your attention and I would like to ask everyone to support the adoption of the bill as soon as possible. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-16-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Sándor Burány, who is also speaking on the stand. I'll wait for the congressman to wake up. Yes, I'll give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-09-16-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, The MSZP fraction will support this bill, as it solves a number of problems arising from the Curia's decision and makes it easier for families. At the same time, let us be allowed to see not only the part of the problem that the bill intends to solve, but also the part of the problem that we think is partly wrong in the bill, and we also see the part of the problem that is not at all affected by the bill. Over the past four years, Fidesz has made numerous attempts to repel banks in some way. Even though many of us have said, in line with analysts, that this should be handled with caution, because consumer protection is not good enough in this area, and any excessive steps by the government or Parliament that make the lives of banks difficult, sooner or later, will result in banks making the business of their clients more difficult. That's exactly what happened. There is nothing wrong with the bank tax itself, this has already been introduced by socialist governments, but we warned about the brutal rate used by the Orbán government, and we warned that this could easily result in banks transferring their losses to customers. That's exactly what happened. This is exactly what happened, so now that consumers, creditors, are protected by the bill, it is worth telling you that banks have, among other things, raised unilateral interest rates and have unilaterally raised fees because they wanted to recover money from consumers from the government's pockets. This is, of course, not a good attitude, but no misunderstanding, but it was a predictable behaviour under market economy conditions, and the government did not count on this. In other words, the Fidesz government has unilaterally put banks in a difficult position, knowing precisely that the banks will then unilaterally put creditors and consumers in a difficult position. We are therefore pleased that this bill will put an end to this practice and will give creditors the protection they should have received four or five years ago. The other problem is in the bill itself, because at some point, this bill is seen as going through the other side of the horse. It is entirely legitimate to expect that the practice - which I have already mentioned - that banks unilaterally raise interest or even, if they do not raise interest, will make it difficult for borrowers to live with other fees and cost elements or to ease their pockets. At the same time, with the requirement that the bill applies, it falls on the other side of the horse, namely the requirement that it envisages a kind of interest-raising moratorium and makes it compulsory. Neither of us is a future researcher, neither of us is a psychic, neither of us can know what the future will bring, so it would be much more justified to have a regulation linking this regulation to the official interest policy of the Hungarian National Bank, because it is very easy to come up with a case where, whether in a month's time or even six months' time, the Hungarian National Bank will be forced to raise interest to protect the forint. There is no reason to say that no other bank can raise interest in this case. Therefore, we would consider it necessary to replace the relevant pass of the submitted bill, which says that, yes, interest increases and fees should be blocked, but at the rate of the interest rate increase at the most, the bill is permissible, all the more so, because the bill is about consumers, it talks about consumer loans. And as I mentioned earlier, if we make the lives of banks harder by law, then the banks will make their clients' lives harder, and this practice can continue in this construction. If we forbid banks to apply such a procedure to consumers, and otherwise it is right, then banks may move towards easier resistance and beat all the consequences of this on entrepreneurs. There, the bill does not introduce a moratorium, so banks can easily beat down all the consequences of what, by the way, the bill is legitimately trying to protect families. But it is primarily the problem of this bill that you are not talking about at all, and here I would specifically like to talk about the problems of foreign exchange lenders. It is quite clear that the largest loss of foreign exchange lenders was to suffer the exchange rate risk, and that the exchange rate is not independent of the government's economic policy. [[10.40]] For the past few years, all hell has broken loose in this area. The forint was weakened to such an extent that it became the main problem of the currency-credited set of problems. According to the statistics of the Hungarian National Bank itself, the amount of an average monthly instalment has increased by 70 percent since 2010, and this is largely due to the evolution of the exchange rate difference. Therefore, it is absolutely one-sided to solve the small part of the problem, while the majority of the problem, with the exchange rate, with the weak forints, the government does not want to start anything. How much the situation has deteriorated, allow me to quote a few numbers. In April 2010, one euro cost an average of 265 HUF. This morning, one euro costs more than 314 forints. In April 2010, an average of 185 HUF was paid for the Swiss franc. On the morning of today, Swiss francs will cost more than 260 forints. The government, Viktor Orbán and György Matolcsy, are the primary responsible for weakening or even weakening the forint. The policy that left the forint to its fate in the first years, then, in recent months, it has been openly announced that it does not intend to protect the forint. More and more analysts talk about the conscious weakening of the forint. This is clearly the result of the government's economic policy. Therefore, the MSZP says that while supporting a minor part of the problem to be solved, it is also necessary to face the majority of the problem and to strengthen the forint. If the government refuses to do so, it must bear the consequences. We say that the government, Fidesz, should not delay the forinting of foreign currency-based loans, as it has already promised by autumn this year. This autumn he promises that he will solve it next spring, and he will certainly promise to push this deadline back to autumn again next spring, constantly and continuously out of the reach of responsibility. It's like when in World War I soldiers were told that by the time the letters fell, they could return to their homes, but they would not be told how many years it would take for those letters to fall for good. Therefore, we are calling for currency-based loans to be sold as soon as possible, at the average exchange rate of the month preceding Fidesz's administration. In other words... [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Late but not broken.]] In other words, the Fidesz government must bear the consequences of this forint weakening and the loss caused by hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families with this economic policy must be reimbursed to them. In conclusion, the bill will therefore be supported by the MSZP fraction. We wish to use an amendment in this area: we want to link the interest rate moratorium with the interest rate policy of the Hungarian National Bank, and we would like to see in this bill that, to the extent that the interest rate increase of the Hungarian National Bank is limited, but indeed interest rates can be raised by commercial banks, as there would be serious risks if the Hungarian National Bank raised interest, while all the other banks in the country could not do so. Secondly, in addition to the bill, we continue to encourage the quickest possible forintling of foreign currency-based loans. To this end, yesterday, the MSZP presented a parliamentary resolution proposal to this House and we ask the majority of the government to support this as well as the resolution of the smaller part of the problem. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-09-16-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey, who is also speaking here on the stand. Congressman, you're on the stand. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2014-09-16-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On the 4th of July 2014, the Parliament of Hungary adopted the XXXVIII of 2014 on the resolution of certain issues relating to the joint decision on consumer credit contracts of financial institutions. Law. By doing so, the Hungarian Parliament brought it to a legislative level and made it universally valid by the Curia 2/2014. The provisions of civil law contained in PJE's decision. At the same time, Parliament stated the nullity of the exchange rate gap and established an unfair presumption of a unilateral right to change contracts. The bill settles issues of settlement required under invalid contracts. This is the settlement of the exchange rate gap in the 2014 XXXVIII. Law 33 Its nullity as set out in § 4 of the Act and the nullity of the clauses relating to the right to unilaterally amend a contract, as established by the court. As a result of the use of invalid contracts and clauses, overpayments were made to the bank debtors, which the banks have to pay to our fellow Hungarians, the Hungarian families. Furthermore, it is important to close the exceptional situation triggered by foreign exchange-based lending as soon as possible and to avoid mass litigation related to accountability. The bill also specifically regulates issues arising from the nullity of the clauses contained in forint-based consumer credit, loan and financial leasing contracts. Ladies and Gentlemen, This bill, in accordance with the Curia 2/2012. By decision of PJE and by Decision XXXVIII of 2014 It contains provisions on consumer loans only. The 2009 Act on loans to consumers 3. According to paragraph 3 of Section 3, the consumer is a natural person acting outside his independent occupation and economic activity. On this basis, consumer credit falls within the scope of private credit liabilities for non-business purposes. The bill settles the rules on consumer accounting in line with the new Ptk. In this context, the bill covers the following issues: settlement arrangements, settlement procedures, specific rules on forint loans and consumer loans in foreign currency and denominated in foreign currency, special procedural provisions governing suspended lawsuits and enforcement procedures, 18-month interest rate moratorium, accounting and tax provisions. Ladies and Gentlemen, One of the main objectives of the bill is to finally account for overpayments to Hungarian citizens due to invalid contractual clauses. [[10.50]] This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Under law, due to the total or partial nullity of contracts, overpayments are made to Hungarian citizens and creditors, which must be settled by the Accounting Act. The bill lays down general accounting rules, accounting rules that are laid down in individual lawsuits by the Ptk. The Courts will also have to apply it on the basis of its interpretation. The general rules on settlement should be laid down in a legislative proposal because, failing this, it would be up to the courts to decide on a case-by-case basis on how to settle settlement issues. The bill treats in a uniform way, for the purposes of settlement, the settlement required for the nullity of the exchange rate gap and the nullity of the clauses on the unilateral amendment of the contract, so the accounting rules apply equally to the overpayments incurred in both cases of invalidity. The bill empowers the National Bank of Hungary to regulate the detailed issues and methodology of all settlements under its macro-prudential powers in a regulation, taking into account that this solution allows for a more flexible response in case of a new case group than a possible amendment of the law. Ladies and Gentlemen, According to the bill, the overpayment in favour of the debtor must be recognised as a prepayment of the capital debt. The essence of the early repayment is that the profit from the earlier favourable exchange rate is shown to the debtors, i.e. to our compatriots, as this calculation methodology is the most favourable for the debtors. The main rule is, therefore, that the consumer should be placed in a position such as that of XXXVIII in 2014 since the date of the contract. Act No. 3 It would have been settled at the rate set out in §2 of the Act and at the initial level of interest at the time of the conclusion of the contract. Where the debt is denominated in foreign currency, the overpayment shall also be converted into that currency. The overpayment shall also be accounted for at the rate at which the financial institution converted the repayment, i.e. interest and principal repayment related to the overpayment. If the consumer has an overdue debt vis-à-vis the financial institution, then the old Ptk is used to account for the overpayment. 293. §, the new Ptk. 6:46. Paragraph 3 of this Article shall apply. Therefore, in this case, the overpayment must be accounted for first for interest, then for costs, and finally for capital debt. Ladies and Gentlemen, The banking activities over the past ten years have mostly not been fair, so we have set the goal of returning unfairly acquired bank incomes to Hungarian families. Accountability must have a strict rule; these strict rules are included in this bill. Banks have to account for the damage caused to Hungarian families. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, in order to ensure the swift implementation of the above, I would like to ask you that the 2014 XXXVIII on the resolution of certain issues relating to the Curia's decision on the consumer loan agreement. T/1272 on the rules of accounting and certain other provisions laid down by law to support bill No 1. KDNP supports the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-16-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Daniel Z. Carpathian. He will give his speech in place. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-09-16-29	Mr President, Dear House, It is a bit of a fool's errand that the debate on a partial solution to a problem already escalated in 2010 is being held today by this House, and that in 2014 this could still be the subject of questions, especially at the end of a flow chart where a one-and-a-half-year-old and a two-year-old period, in the appeal of a strudel, can be said to be a promise tsunami in the Hungarian public life concerning the issue of foreign exchange credit damage, which is rare and unparalleled. Now we have finally come to the point that the very tough ultimatum deadline for banks in November last year, that if they do not exercise insight from themselves, then the government will put them in a very hard place - this did not turn out to be anything - was finally replaced by a full package of accountability and solutions promised for the autumn. From this autumn promise we have now come to the point that we have a partial forinting plan planned for February-March ahead of us, the opinion of which is at least an interesting task for the Members of this House, since the formula itself will be defined by the Hungarian National Bank. We're gonna sign a little bit of a blank check, but at least we're going in the right direction. The shortcomings of this are certainly worth looking at. So how the present autumn's promise became a partial solution again and " then in the spring " and a little later for those whose bank is suing the Hungarian state, i.e. the " market" providing the Hungarian state, is quite amazing. It would be necessary if we could agree on a basic clause, and this is that the stolen item comes back. If, on the other hand, the stolen item comes back in its entirety, it must be stated that we have had a lot of unnecessary debates and are going on with the issue. After all, if we were talking about forinting, and in a surprising, almost touching way, we were also talking about the MSZP part, which did not have the germ of this political one when it was on the government, when it allowed this disastrous situation to escalate, when, starting with the Swiss central bank, almost the whole world warned you that it would be a huge problem, the problem is that the then government, the then consumer protection and the then opposition did nothing to each other. After all, it must be stated that this problem is largely responsible for the irresponsible and often traitorous policies of Balliberal governments. But it must also be stated that we searched the parliamentary archives at that time, and that we could not find the amendments made by the then opposition. We can't find the warrior stand on the issue that the government seems to want to solve. How is it that, as of 2010, we right-wingers here in Parliament have indicated this problem, we have signalled the need for HUFing, and since then it has been considered very often unprofessional, it has been considered impossible, but now it's partly the same in front of us? However, in the period before that, three months before we indicated this, the opposition at that time did not give any indication that it would even recognize that such a problem existed in Hungary. And it is not worth talking about the then Balliberal " elite, " since the number of winks with the Banking League was perhaps the highest in a month's terms. At the same time, we must see that there are very interesting moments in the proposal before us. So if we were to assume that the stolen property goes back, then we should be quite amazed that the ordinary judicial path is essentially excluded, and the 12,000 lawsuits that are suspended are actually looting a fundamental right granted by the current government in the Fundamental Law for those injured who would seek their own right in front of the court or tribunal. It comes up and comes to mind that, while the government has not had much contact with civil society organisations protecting victims in the summer, or with those of us who really know about this problem, it is better than we do here, because in the courtrooms for five years, six years, they have been fighting for a very long time where the victims are able to achieve real concessions and real results, yet it is noticed that the government has been negotiating with someone in the summer. Who did he negotiate with? He publicly announced that he was carrying on this activity with the Banking Association, but it was interesting to me that it was the Magyar Nemzet newspaper itself that brought back the fact that certain government leaders were conducting secret meetings with bank managers, financial institution managers who were curious about the extent to which the capacity of financial institutions would extend, so how much longer they could be burdened. [[11.00]] So the peculiar situation arose that, apart from one or two exceptions, no one consulted the victims, the victims' organisations, and they did not ask them for the vast amount of experience they had after years of work, while they discussed with the partial offenders or suspected offenders, and, together with them, put the funds on the table that unfortunately had the Bank Alliance's hand on. The Banking Association and the financial institutions involved have repeatedly asked the government for certain things on a number of occasions, but perhaps the loudest request was to stop the lawsuits, the mass lawsuits in the cases concerned, in some way or other. And this proposal, see, suspends 12,000 lawsuits. Interestingly, we got there, and in connection with these lawsuits, it was already stated in the explanatory statement that the aim was to avoid mass litigation. And when it comes to the fact that a huge amount of money has been taken from Hungarian people - this would come back, because there has been an overpayment - then we are faced with such explanations, it is proposed that the overpayers, the customers, " may be expected to make early repayment of their debt. " On what basis do governments, parliamentary parties, factions, or legislators decide that a person who returns that amount must make his own money available for early repayment, which was taken from him illegally? This own money comes back, and then the citizen should have his own right of choice, so that if, as a result of this faulty contract, his life was impossible in another area, let us say, he couldn't get his child into school, he couldn't take part in a medical treatment that would have improved his quality of life in a measurable way, let the debtor decide which direction he would lead his life in, let the state or government not decide for him. This system, as you claim, has already been left behind, yet the signs show that it has not completely succeeded. So, in itself, it is not in any way purely in the interest of the debtor's interest that a debtor would have to extort. This is very manageable and can only be assessed as part of a proposal bearing the bank's handprint. The need to convert any overpayment into currency is both professionally and ethically ridiculous. So it is obvious that anyone who tries to justify this is embedding the black, dark spots of his own later CV, because it is obvious that talking about conversion in terms of overpayment, where the withdrawal of currency is not even partially proven, is quite ridiculous. Look, I'm begging you, those partial court judgments, the procedures that have been completed where lawyers, the defenses had one simple task: asking the bank for a certificate to pay attention, you bank, that day you included in foreign currency the amount that you allegedly posted to the client on paper. Almost no bank could put a paper like that on the table. The other joke is that the government of Hungary has not actually dealt with this issue here in Parliament, that these financial institutions cannot justify the inclusion of currency for those to whom it was supposed to be deposited. So they should be able to demonstrate that this happened on that day. More than 80 percent of the cases are unable to do so. We should and could talk about this too, but it is in itself that anyone should be obliged to convert overpayment into foreign currency, again it is quoting another system, and I think that we do not want to live in that system, because it is very, very far from free and independent Hungary. So, going back to yesterday's question, when it came to who the experts of Jobbik were, who suggested it, and by doing so, we also say that the citizen can decide for himself what to do with his own money, then it comes up who the government experts were, when they wrote this presentation, who were the participants in the secret negotiations, the potential or the secret negotiations that the Hungarian nation was venting, with what encouragements they provided the government of Hungary. If this has not happened, and I conclude from the head shakes that you are also divided on this issue, then you can stand up and declare that the government of Hungary, its representatives, did not participate in any secret negotiations with the bank managers, the heads of the banking associations, or the heads of financial institutions. That didn't happen at yesterday's call. If it does not happen today in this debate, it will be talkative in itself. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] We must also say that this proposal is eligible. By the way, he's going in a direction where the direction is difficult to question. Obviously, as part of an accounting process, it is worth talking about fine-tuning this, but fine-tuning very much. The question arises when the government wants to forint for years, because what has been said for years that professionalism, inexplicable, would bring down the market, would generate an exchange rate of HUF 800 for the euro, which your own State Secretarys have been mantrawing for years, I don't know which department, I don't know who it is compiled by; yet we have now come to the point that the MSZP is not only trying to forint with such an endgame, obviously even at the end of its period with a hairy and inflated exchange rate, but, fortunately, the government has now realized that the forintation here can be a tool that actually pulls out the bulk of the poison teeth of the problem. However, it can be seen that very vaguely or in no way are pro-government representatives expressing the price and rate at which they intend to forint. Jobbik's model, which we have been saying since 2010, is that, in addition to the fact that it is a comprehensive solution, it would be absolutely unnecessary to have part of the package of proposals before us, since it could take out the problems that they are trying to answer here. So we have strong suspicion that if they try to obtain an apparent solution in such a comprehensive way, then that certain forinting will not occur at the rate of the recording, and it can be said roughly and with an overstated average that the large majority took their credit around a rate of 165 forints. If we were to forint at the higher rate proposed by the MSZP, this would mean that some of the stolen items would be left consciously with the banks from the MSZP, not surprisingly. Obviously, once again, I am surprised not by the behaviour of previous Balliberal governments, but I am surprised that, while Mr Rogán said, quite rightly, in a way supported by me, that the last forint should be taken back from what was unduly transferred from the people's wallets to banks and financial institutions, the action seems to be in a different direction, since we are not talking about how to convert these loans, how to behave as if these people had taken a forint loan and paid back in forints. Because what happened in reality? Most of these people received nine percent forints, paid in HUF, and with an administrative set of tricks the involved part of the commercial banks, most of it pretended there was a withdrawal of currency, and quarterly reports show that 80 percent of the cases did not involve the withdrawal of the currency. So we are faced with an administrative hack, a defective product, which would only be corrected if we at least declared it, and you would admit that for 10 years this financial system has been dragging the governments of Hungary on a wire, pulling the surveillance systems on a wire, and operating a looting pump mechanism on an annual basis, obliging Hungarian citizens to pay about 2-3 percent of GDP under the heading of repayment, a significant part of which has been unduly leaked to the financial sector. This would be the basis for creating a real package of solutions. We must add that we should address the question of how the banking sector special tax can be passed on in its entirety, the transaction fee that should not be paid exclusively by citizens, how it can be fully passed over, and how it can happen that if there is any burden on this sector, by raising card fees, various credit awards and other charges by a few thousand-dollar increase, how to pull additional billions out of the pockets of Hungarian citizens. So apparently, with one hand, the government gives something that I will support, because we are moving towards ordering, and this could be the beginning of a very good process. But if, in the dark on the other side, certain hands take back these amounts or, where appropriate, more than that, then we can say that there was only a whistling and no measurable result. At the same time, a monitoring system has still not been developed to assess whether these increases, bank tariff changes are behind real market developments or whether they are only priced for these different apparent pressures. And then we didn't even talk about who was listed here, who was being helped by the government, but at the same time they missed out on all social groups. What happens, for example, to those who have taken on a HUF-based loan with interest rate subsidies, i.e. house-bound loans, but are not house-bound, but have been used for housing purposes, which they can prove, but because of the state aid " they are left out of all forms of assistance as described in this proposal. So to sum up, the sole goal that we could talk about is, indeed, that every single forint should be recovered for the benefit of the injured. It is not certain that this way would be the easiest way to get there than before, without the HUFing of loans at the rate of admission and full bank accountability. Therefore, Jobbik is involved in fine-tuning this, but it indicates that there would be a much simpler, much fairer method without which there would be no full result. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[11.10]]
u2014-09-16-30	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome to my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2014-09-16-31	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I am forced to start there, too, because of the reasons for the bill and its history, it has been expected in recent months that the government will participate in an open, transparent, transparent process of consultation for voters and victims. It would have been expected that this bill would come before the House in such a way that, on one side, we knew exactly what the government has been discussing over the past few weeks, months and months, we could have seen exactly what the Government was negotiating with the Banking Association and, where appropriate, with the organisations of the credit-damaged ones, do not give'god, we could also face the fact that, where appropriate, such organisations have not been consulted at all. Not least, this bill should have come before the House in such a way that the House is able to accurately consider what the adoption of the bill means for credit-damaged people on one side, what it entails, what it means in time, when it comes to getting back into the situation if it had not been this defective product, and on the other hand, the government should have put an impact assessment on the table that clearly shows the consequences of this bill for the domestic economy, the domestic small and medium-sized enterprises sector through the credit market. Neither the government's discussions over the last few months nor the bill - although we are talking about a proposal tabled by the government exceptionally - we know nothing about its expected social and economic impact. This is also particularly interesting because the judicial portfolio - and perhaps in the presentation of Répássy Róbert - was adopted in 2010 - had Parliament adopt a new legislative law, which, by the way, makes it a procedural obligation for the government to present legislative proposals in such a way as to accompany both social consultations and impact assessments to the Parliament. So at this point, I would like to point out, in a prerogative, that when preparing and presenting the bill, the government has broken the law. If we can establish - and I think we can conclude - that foreign exchange loans, the release of this defective product, are necessary in order for the Hungarian economy to recover, if we can establish and establish that the guilt of the past governments has contributed to the destruction of tens of thousands of families, then it would be expected that this government will come up with a proposal for a solution that will make it clear what groups are involved, what the views of these groups were, and on the other hand it will clearly show the House and the people what the expected effects of this proposal have on the families concerned and the expected effects on the Hungarian national economy. The government has failed to fulfil this obligation. Dear Parliament, We must also note that if the government is already talking about accountability, then, of course, the previous governments must also be accounted for, but the second, third Orbán government must also be accounted for. There is a four-and-a-half-year failure that we cannot find, and neither Antal Rogán, nor the government, nor yesterday the Prime Minister, explained why it was necessary to wait four and a half years to solve the currency crisis. I would like to point out that, in the first years, only legislation has been put in place to help the wealthy, and I am thinking of the price barrier, and I am thinking of the end-payment here. This was indicated at the time in the debates that the legislative steps in 2011 did not help families in the most unfortunate situation. I can also say that this year's legislative proposals on the part of Fidesz are confessions of the failure of the'11-12 government policy. If the government had chosen the right instruments in 2011-12, there would not be a need for a separate bill now, because it would have been possible to solve the foreign exchange credit crisis. So I would also expect that, if we were talking about accountability, we would count the Orbán government for the damage caused to the families during the delay by the release of the forint exchange rate. It is possible to determine which governments are responsible for the release of the defective product. Here I also told you two months ago that the initial shot or the starting gun was fired in this case by the first Orbán government. Clearly, there is an unforgivable crime in this by socialist-liberal governments, and the Bajna government has a particularly serious responsibility, which has received clear and clear warnings both from abroad and from the mainland, such as Professor Róna, and others, about the urgent need to act, because the house is on fire. In 2009, the so-called crisis management or rather crisis-creating government had a banking code of conduct. But we don't know why the second Orbán government was late. We do not know from this accounting process how much damage the second Orbán government has done by delay to families who have already fallen into the foreign currency loan trap. So we should talk about that, too. We should also talk about the fact that if we are to be accounted for, there is no double standard, not only banks must be accounted for, governments must also be accounted for. Dear Parliament, In recent years, the LMP has put clear and clear proposals on Parliament's table to resolve the foreign exchange credit crisis. I would like to mention, for example, that the ban on unilateral contracts - I note, we demanded this from the Bajna government in the summer of 2009, and that we supported the elimination of the exchange rate gap and the application of the MNB's central rate in 2010. Two years ago, there was an Ertsey-Vágó proposal to be recorded in law, in the Civil Code, in what cases unilateral amendment of the contract is unfair, since the principles had already been developed by the Curia. I would also like to mention, while we are talking about the delay, that I also do not see a reasonable reason why the first foreign exchange rescue package adopted in July this year, which is now in front of this House, could no longer be discussed. I know the answer: it's because there's a municipal campaign now, and you guys need a campaign campaign now. It's just that you're treating saving these families as just a campaign stunt, it's very pathetic and shameful. I would also like to say that this proposal from two years ago, which was registered by Katalin Ertsey and Gábor Vágó, was swept off the table, although two years ago there would have been a solution to dealing with unfair unilateral treaty amendments - it is true that if you accepted it then, you would not be able to campaign with it in the '14 municipal elections. It would not be possible to radio how many banks were cancelled by the courts every day; if they had accepted our proposal, we would not now be able to launch a billboard campaign with public money to the Prime Minister's Office on how you account for the banks at the beginning of the municipal campaign. We also proposed at the beginning of this year, in January, at the end of the previous cycle, that precisely because not only families, families with foreign exchange credit damage, but the entire Hungarian national economy is a defective product, foreign currency credit has caused damage, civilian legal conclusions must be drawn, and the civil code must prohibit the conclusion of such legal transactions for the future. We also suggested that if and when a person obtains enforcement rights from a foreign exchange credit transaction, it is only possible to obtain enforcement rights by having a final judicial judgment behind it. In English: we asked the two-thirds majority to ensure that foreign exchange-based credit transactions are not executed by circumventing the judgment of the court, based solely on a notary deed. Thirdly, we also demanded that you prohibit banks from transferring their claims to collecting companies with different half-criminal backgrounds in foreign exchange credit transactions. [[11.20]] All three of our proposals got rid of Fidesz-KDNP. You still do not want to ban such transactions in the Ptk. for the future; you still do not want to prohibit enforcement from such transactions on the basis of a notary deed; and you still do not want to stop banks from transferring their claims to companies with questionable backgrounds. This would be the solution to prevent half - criminal figures from just hacking into peaceful families, elderly people, families with small children. These proposals have been swept away by you, but what you have offered to Parliament here will continue to leave doubts, and it will still not be a definitive solution for families and individuals who have suffered credit damage. I would like to say that, on the basis of the bill, it is not possible at all to determine who will get back when, how much, because the methods of accounting, rather than being determined by the law, will be entrusted to the central bank run by the Wizard Matolcsy. On top of that, I suppose György Matolcsy will find this out in voodoo ways sometime, as my fellow Member intervened. It should also be said that, for this reason, the current regulation, the current regulatory proposal itself, contributes to slowness: the two types of reimbursement, the exchange rate gap and the increase in interest rates and fees must be accounted for together by banks to customers. So we're gonna have to wait for the lawsuits to be closed. This means that the accounts will be sent to customers between 15 January and 30 November 2015, depending on whether a lawsuit is ongoing or not. And the law doesn't even tell you when to actually reduce the payments due to the accounts. Dear Parliament, The May Other Politics has already stated earlier, and since the beginning of the last cycle, it has been constantly saying that there is no place for a foreign currency-based register in a loan contract, and therefore an immediate forinting would be necessary. The government promised to complete the foreign exchange-based calculations; it is not clear at all how the outstanding debt after the settlement will be HUFed, if any. So, one more time. We have asked for, for years, that in these credit transactions we simply weed out the currency element, the currency-based element, and otherwise these relationships may be left untouched. Of course, after weeding out the currency-based element, a settlement between credit institutions and credit-damaged persons is required. The lack of forinting is one of the biggest shortcomings of this bill. However, not least one more risk factor should be mentioned here, namely the proposal 45. §2 of the EU Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: Paragraph 2 of the Act states that a financial institution shall not be entitled to one-sided interest rate increases, increases or increases in fees for consumer loan contracts until the date specified in a separate Act, but no later than 30 April 2016. We understand that this is not just about consumer loan agreements that are otherwise affected by so-called foreign exchange rescue laws; it is not just about consumer loans that are somehow linked to the foreign exchange credit crisis. And there's a reason I missed the impact assessment in my introduction, which, by the way, would have been an obligation for the judicial wallet to put on the table with the national economy wallet. In the debate before yesterday's agenda, I mentioned that at present the situation is as if, despite all the previous pledges made by Fidesz, today the Hungarian government is giving a multinational company ten times as much support for job-creating investments as it is for a Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise. Did the responsible Hungarian government consider that if, and if, in the entire spectrum of consumer loans, until 30 April 16, a moratorium on interest increases is announced, we do not see clearly how interest rates will change in international financial markets and what operations will the central bank prepare for in the coming months, what consequences will this have for the Hungarian credit market? The victims of this moratorium will not be the banks, but those small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary which, by the way, cannot lick up subsidies as big as those that your strategic partners, the large multi-enterprises, can lick up, but they alone are able to create lasting, real jobs in Hungary. There is a very serious risk to the national economy at 45. Behind Section 3, and this risk to the national economy will in particular hit the domestic small and medium-sized enterprise sector, which needs the most to obtain credit from domestic banks. It is already difficult to obtain credit if the credit market is completely frozen, the victims of this will be Hungarian SMEs, in an economic environment where you are already filling the pockets of the multinationals with a lot of money. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-16-32	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. According to the decision-making rules, the first independent representative to make a statement is now entitled to speak in 15 minutes. In this speaking session, Mr László Varju applied, but he is not in the room, so I give the floor to independent Mrs Zsuzsanna Szelényi as the second. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-09-16-33	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It's hard to talk about a bill that isn't what it looks like. Undoubtedly, the debt of foreign exchange credentialers, the increased burden of families, increased five years ago, remains a very serious problem for many to date. For almost five years, the government has been telling people how to do this, but it has not yet provided a complete solution. Last time the Prime Minister promised the solution in autumn, yesterday he spoke about spring, and then obviously the next winter will come. For Fidesz, it's only good for him to make a prank campaign against banks and have fun with people. The situation is quite clear: it uses the troubles of debtors for the political purposes of the government, and in newer campaigns it makes political capital out of the continuing belief. In fact, foreign exchange taxpayers still have a monthly payment increase. In 2010, the exchange rate for Swiss francs was 190 forints, and today it was 260 forints. Today's problems have long been caused by Fidesz. Meanwhile, Fidesz, the Prime Minister's favourite economic policyman, his right hand, György Matolcsy, is at the head of the central bank carrying out an unfavorable interest reduction policy, which constantly undermines the exchange rate of the forint. Now, here's the dog buried! As a result of the National Bank's policy, people's forint savings are constantly weakening, their salary is being devalued, and their money is getting less and less. On the other hand, the burden of foreign exchange taxpayers is increasing every day. György Matolcsy is only profiting from the forint weakening. The huge profits accumulated at the Hungarian National Bank are the money of the taxpayers. Money that could be used for various public purposes, such as debt repayment, building schools, kindergartens, strengthening universities. However, this public money is not paid into the budget by the President of the Central Bank, but is spent on his own hobbies without the authority of Parliament. He buys buildings, creates foundations, but if he sees fit, he finances a craft workshop, a fashion show at the Müpa Budapest. That's the thing, please. The Prime Minister and the tram signs are blaring about bank accountability. Meanwhile, György Matolcsy is running around the central bank without accountability. Who's going to charge him for constantly weakening the forint? With absurd excuses, Fidesz assists with the control of the Committee on Budgets, as Minister of National Economy Mihály Varga did yesterday. It's interesting how much he doesn't care about 200 billion forints of public money. There's a scam going on here with a thousand. Abuse of the daily problems of foreign exchange taxpayers. We have long said that those who want a real solution to the problems of foreign exchange lenders must find a solution that divides burdens between the government, risk-taking borrowers and banks in proportion to their responsibility. However, this is not the case at all. The result of the government's deceiving, procrastination policy is that people are just waiting for the divine miracle. Many people don't even pay the payments. Nothing's gonna happen to them until spring, and there's a good chance it won't happen again. This is devastating for the Hungarian economy in the long term. The huge bank tributes - which we have no idea where they have gone - have already hit the Hungarian banking system with a thousand billion-dollar magnitude. [[11.30]] There will now be another similar burden, which will have a dramatic impact on the Hungarian economy, because it will shock the credit market and cause a credit crisis. We need to know, if not from anywhere else, from the largest Hungarian, Széchenyi, that without credit and without lending banks there is no working and developing economy. Banks forced to close drawers and leave, which is ahead of us, will not be able to replace them. Only the properly regulated banking system guarantees that savings can be increased and that the people who go to the bank with plans and projects can get money from customers. The banking system is the backbone of the economy; it is like any other system of predictable institutions. Economic growth is unthinkable without this. What's going on today is a total meltdown of market conditions. This is not accountability, this is a reckoning with the Hungarian banking system, which is also a reckoning with the country's long-term growth. In the grip of the Prime Minister's obsession, as has always been the case with the leaders of communist and authoritarian regimes, he has long believed that he could override the basic standards and values of the market economy. And you, honourable members of the government, are just pressing the buttons. Sooner or later, this will end in collapse, so of course, the foreign exchange contributors will continue to keep only the soundy but false promises. This proposal is manifestly unacceptable in its entirety. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-16-34	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2014-09-16-35	[[No sound.]] Mr President, Dear House, During this independent speech, we heard quite amazing sentences. On the one hand, it's supposed to be a hack campaign against banks, and on the other hand... - Fair enough, I'm sorry.
u2014-09-16-36	We'd like to have a voice, please. We'll count the time, Congressman.
u2014-09-16-37	Apparently, thanks to the orgy, something must have come out of it. But in recent times - thank you very much for the set-off - there have been quite amazing comments on the independent side of the campaign against banks, and it has just been said that Fidesz is the cause of all this. I can be accused of a lot of things, but it's not about protecting the government's foreign exchange operations. So it would be very difficult for me to identify with what Fidesz-KDNP has done during this polishing process in recent years. Let us not forget, however, that between 2001 and 2004 there was a massive wave of unilateral amendments, and let us not forget what happened during the rampage and carpet bombing of Balliberal governments. After all, a huge amount of foreign currency came from the parent banks to the subsidiaries and branches that did not lend, but converted the funds into HUF here, put them into the Hungarian National Bank at a high interest rate, and the Hungarian National Bank was forced to pay the difference under the law at that time. And from this huge money pump, the international financial networks have become incredibly rich. The then governments left this, the then state supervision system left this, and that was what the Fidesz-KDNP government then let go, both of them anyway. So the responsibility can be established, but the fact that there's a humour campaign going on here against the banks simply doesn't hold up. Here, a bank-stealing pump has been operating for decades, which has not been dealt with by any government, by any public oversight system, but this responsibility must be shared, cannot be shifted only to one side. The Jobbikon and the LMP sitting here, which has not been in government, so everyone except these parties is responsible for what happened, and also the former representatives of all the parties involved. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-09-16-38	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As there were no candidates for a two-minute speech, we will continue with the further speeches. Those who have announced their intention to speak in writing, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that they have a timeframe of 15-15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-09-16-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, we are continuing the general debate of this law, so in the first part of my speech, at least I would like to return to it - perhaps modestly or I do not know how it sounds - to the epochal step that may have been mentioned here in the past. Why do I dare to call this bill an age-changing act? Not only because it creates better economic opportunities for hundreds of thousands and even millions of Hungarian citizens and helps their everyday lives, but also because I think that a new way of thinking is emerging, a new interpretation of politics, the role of the government, and all of this here in Europe is the 21st. In the century. This law does not simply bring new legislation, but let us call it the case, it gives people justice, a truth that many may have given up in this country. And this is also somewhat an answer to the questions why we are here now, in 2014, essentially in the fourth year of the Orbán government or the third Orbán government after 2010, because this is the result of a long process, a long, joint thought, when we jointly realized that it is not enough to modify certain laws according to the old concepts, but rather to be brave enough and strong enough to take on a certain basis, let us call it a paradigm, too. By returning to people what was unfairly taken from them, the bill on bank accountability also proves that politics is not necessarily about itself in the cliché. With this law, the civil government will certainly, but the factions that support it - and the Fidesz faction will certainly go beyond the so-called liberal concept of state, where the role of the state can only be described as a night watchman to someone who has no business deciding on the debate of social actors, to the maximum balance between these debates. So here, in fact, the role of the state and government, Parliament, goes into a new dimension. It's the law, it can be put as a concept of a just state. With this legislation, we can not only give back the unfairly taken money to people, but perhaps also the faith that politics makes sense, people can count on their own state, even in the case of their debate against large opaque international organisations, such as the banks now. This law may, without exaggerating a little bit, make changes to the citizenship law or the new Fundamental Law, or perhaps to certain legislation on the reduction of debts. Since 2010 we have known the economic problems that Fidesz has inherited, but has been working constantly to deal with the problem of inherited foreign currency debt. For the sake of numbers only: between 2002 and 2010, people were basically lured into the system of foreign exchange-based lending, they were not adequately warned of the risks and they were not protected by their unequal position against credit institutions. Moreover, neither the then ruling parties did this in the light of the fact that a number of neighbouring countries, from Poland to the Czech Republic, had the courage to limit foreign exchange-based lending to the political elite. As a result, there was no such problem. Perhaps it would be long, and I would not be able to list, in the time frame available here, the steps that have basically preceded this current law, which has constantly tried to eliminate this very difficult legacy, but perhaps it is worth saying here, in the context of the general debate, that the then government had already amended the civil code in August 2010, in which it limited foreign currency-based mortgage lending. In October, it also introduced strict rules against banks in order to protect customers. Such was the prohibition of unilateral contractual amendment, the restriction of interest rate increases and the total prohibition of charges subject to significantly stricter conditions than before, and the prohibition of 90 days' late interest, penalty rates, extra charges and costs. [[11.40]] In May 2011, in the framework of the Home Protection Action Plan, the government took further measures in relation to the fixed exchange rate by linking forced sales to quotas, establishing the National Asset Manager and launching a new HUF-based home protection support programme. In September 2011, the government offered hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families the possibility of full withdrawal from the foreign exchange loan with new legislation by launching the end-payment programme. We now know that nearly 170,000 families lived with this, 170,000 families were able to get out of this trap with a fixed exchange rate by the government's legislation. That's when the National Asset Management started. To date, nearly 20,000 apartments have been purchased, and the biggest horror of Hungarian families living there has been eliminated, i.e. that they have to leave the family house, they have to leave the apartment they lived in just because they cannot pay the payments. You can see that over the past four years we have taken a number of steps to address the problems arising from irresponsible banking lending practices. Overall, half a million families have managed to help in some way, in whole or in part, since 2010, but we hope that this current law will also provide a solution for the others. On 16 June 2014, the Curia took a long-awaited decision as a legal unit, which is essentially a turning point and authorised the government and parliament to assist foreign exchange creditors with new legislation. This is another issue, since this bill gives hope to those who are indebted to in the forint loan for all banking practices. It is calculated that 1.3 million families, 680,000 foreign exchange-credited and approximately 650 thousand HUF-based debtors will benefit better if these rules are adopted. According to the calculations, payments may be reduced by 25-30 percent and affect more than 400 financial institutions, with a value of approximately HUF 1000 billion. The proposal, as I mentioned, is also an important turning point in this fight, as it also provides fair settlement for Hungarian families who have taken on the forint loan. The proposal aims at accounting the entire banking system. As a general rule, as has been said, it ceased after 26 July 2009 and concerns existing contracts. In addition, the details of the Accounting Act give the National Bank the opportunity to determine the exact settlement and the amounts returned. Allow me to briefly point out the dangers faced by opposition representatives in trying to pass on the responsibility of the banks in the context of the interest rate increase moratorium. Here the question of businesses has been raised several times. With respect, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that national bank financing, which accounts for 90 percent of today's Hungarian corporate funding, operates at fixed interest rates, with a fixed percentage of 2.5 percent. By the way, the National Bank is launching another loan programme. So any Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise that wants to obtain credit, regardless of the moratorium on other financial transactions, will still be able to borrow from commercial banks by 2.5 percent in the future, as the upper limit of interest is limited here. So it is such a danger that this would happen through the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, resulting in the freezing of it, because of credit schemes, or I could mention the Széchenyi card, for example, as a real threat. Moreover, this law and the Curia's decision raises an interesting question, and this question is that there will probably be organisations in the future, there will be businesses that will question unfair banking not only in terms of consumers and the general public, but also in terms of entrepreneurial lending, which is another front, another part of the fact that in Hungary the main principle of dealing with public affairs and even banking matters is indeed the truth. Indeed, the independent Hungarian courts have recently said in their decision, which many millions of people have long been waiting for here in Hungary, that is to say that the Hungarian banks have abused their dominant position, in many cases they have acted unfairly, unilaterally at the expense of Hungarian families and have changed the contracts for their benefit. I would like to remind you that the Hungarian banks have indeed unilaterally amended the contracts by autumn 2010, without the customer's consent, with minimum notification obligations. This exercise will now be cleared, with unilateral contractual amendments, cost increases at the expense of the client, interest increases, we hope that it will be over once and for all. Banks have to account for housing loans, free-use mortgage loans, car loans, consumer loans and all forint loans. This bill means that after the decade wasted by socialist governments, justice can finally be achieved for 1.3 million Hungarian families. I ask all my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-09-16-40	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Mr János Volner, Mr Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2014-09-16-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, At a time when the subsidised housing-credit scheme, introduced by the first Orbán government, was replaced by the foreign exchange loan scheme, the built-in systemic risks which the legislator itself cemented, and they were known to be unlikely to be dealt with later. What was the basic problem with foreign exchange lending? Well, they chose an inappropriate instrument to finance the population. A foreign exchange loan is a short-term corporate loan facility where exchange rate risk is managed effectively by people otherwise trained in such exchange rate risk management through different financial transactions. In the population, it was obvious that, in a 20-year time horizon, predicting how a high-volatile currency would behave, what the exchange rate would have been, it would have been very difficult in the first place, it could not have been. It was very important, with which the Orbán government has not started anything for a long time, and in this current bill it does not fully state the responsibility of the banks, that during the period of the rise in foreign exchange lending, in 2004-2005, when six times as many apartments were built in Hungary as at present, when construction was in ruins, the current Act of Credit Institutions provided that it was necessary to convey credit to qualified people, that credit placements could only be carried out by them, and that customer relationships could be maintained by them, so if we look at who was transmitting these loans, then we can see that some of the people who participated in the fast track are selling loans that they are not aware of their risks, how they are pricing themselves. Of course, if he himself doesn't know what risks the lender will take for this transaction, once again, for two decades in advance, then it is natural that the bank has failed to comply with the requirements of the credit institution law, has not sufficiently informed customers about the risks associated with the credit, and it is also obvious that this kind of damage is being done by credit lenders. With this, the Orbán government has not started anything, nor has it acted in this area. It would be worth looking at the area of action of the socialist and the Orbán government to take action in this area. The socialists extended foreign currency lending, deepened the crisis and caused a huge problem for Hungary as a whole. In the past four and a half years, the Orbán government has not taken any concrete steps to change this legal environment. [[11.50]] Some interventions of a cosmetic nature have taken place, but unfortunately, we have to say no, which is why they are still drowning in foreign currency loans, and I would add, in the forint loan, because they are also involved in banking self-interest, Hungarian families are drowning in the forint loan as well. The government did not actually act against the banks, although it was able to adopt a constitution on its own, with a two-thirds parliamentary mandate. The Orbán government could have rewritten, let's say, within a day or two, the laws were completely in the interests of the customers, in accordance with the truth, but unfortunately for a very long time it simply did not happen. It is also very important to see how the increase in repayments is combined and what the government has not done in order to reduce these burdens and to choose a solution on the ground of law and justice. The interest of customers was focused on the exchange rate issue at the moment when the loan was borrowed, and the public speech, which was the subject of the government, focused only on the exchange rate, although the exchange rate change only covered part of the credit risk, the other risk was in the interest rate alone, which we bettermen have been talking about for a very long time, that interest is also to be dealt with, not only with the exchange rate risk. What did that look like? Three years ago, when we looked at the regular report of the Financial Institutions' State Supervisory Board, which had to be forwarded to the European Central Bank from the credit institution sector, we saw that in the so-called "other currencies " category, where all currencies other than the euro were classified, the credit institution sector's own loan of HUF 1627 billion was accumulated, and nearly five times the amount of credit that the credit institution sector had allocated. So there was actually about a fifth part of the foreign exchange hedge behind the loans deposited, and I note that this fifth part includes the bank's own commercial portfolio, where appropriate, that the bank owns real estate assets, and therefore takes credit from its own parent bank, and from this it builds the real estate portfolio that it uses here in Hungary later on for economic gain - which I now say without any negative overtones. So, if the fifth part of the loan is actually covered by foreign currency, then why is it that the cost of the total exchange rate change has been continuously taken away by the banks for many years? In the last four and a half years, since Fidesz came to power, the same thing has happened: they have not actually acted against them, they have not acted against them, although otherwise trained lawyers, such as Andrea Damm, who has strengthened Jobbik's team of experts, say that after several hundred lawsuits with banks, there was no case where the bank could prove the involvement of foreign currency in the loan transaction. It wasn't like that, ladies and gentlemen. In the fifth part, the loans were actually covered by foreign exchange. Then why do you have to button this money off from clients, so to speak? This was a foreign exchange-based loan, not actually a foreign exchange loan, where the basis for the settlement was the exchange rate change in the currency. It is also very important to see what happened to interest rates, because the condition that a customer pays two and a half-fold repayments compared to its early payment is not due to the fact that the exchange rate has changed so enormously. The exchange rate at Swiss francs rose roughly one and a half times compared to borrowing. This huge change in repayments was due to the free movement of commercial banks with interest on loans, raising them where they wanted to be. Now let's think about it, when a Hungarian person takes out a loan, a Swiss franc loan, with, say, a 5% loan rate, at the same time a Polish loan-payer, the Hungarian loan-payer, suddenly gets out of debt because the loan-rate goes from the original 5 percent to 11 percent, compared with Polish loan-payers there is no such change. Why is that? Because the banks on the interest side, by gross overpriced interest rates, gained huge profits in Hungary, which resulted in the highest profitability of the banks tested in comparison at international level in Hungary. Quite simply, the population was looted by being able to raise interest roughly more than twice as much compared to the original level. Now let's take a look at this from the client side. Someone goes into the bank, talks to the credit officer - the credit administrator has no idea what systemic risks there are, since he himself sits in the chair where he sits and talks to clients in violation of the laws on the credit institution sector - they do not enlighten the client about systemic risks. Although the client expects that the Swiss franc's exchange rate may shift compared to the forint, and he will have a loss, but he says that in this housing loan it is that from 60,000 to 80,000 forints in a bad scenario, it will be paid, and he says that we will be able to withstand 80,000, so let's take the loan calmly. But this unfortunate loan-payer could expect Hungary to have governments that would allow commercial banks not only to transfer exchange rates to customers, but also to raise interest rates at their convenience? That's what happened here. This could not have been expected by any loan-payer to allow interest to be raised freely by the government. And let's look at the interest rate environment where that might have happened. At the foreign currency of the source country, Switzerland, the central bank's base rate fell deeply in the autumn of 2008, the central bank's base rate decreased to a very drastic extent, is currently around 0.25 percent, and there is even news of negative base rates. Compared to this, the interest rate level of Hungarian lenders does not begin to decrease from the original 5 percent, as does the interest rate level of the source country, but begins to increase brutally, double, and currently the interest rate level is 1.5 times higher than the original level. Tell me, what is the reason for this terrible increase in interest rates? Nothing but the fact that the bank's luxury profit was thus secured by both the former socialist government and the current Orbán government. Of course, there have been interventions of the form of beauty flora: the introduction of the exchange rate barrier, which is being interpreted by leading pro-government politicians by saving people, introducing the exchange rate barrier, cannot be passed on to customers the burden of exchange rate change, as customers can repay the repayments at a favourable rate. But what's the price barrier? In a separate account, the difference between the current exchange rate and the exchange rate recorded in the exchange barrier is further and further interested and ironed from customers after the expiry of a five-year moratorium. What's happening? The problem is pushed five years further by the government, and the banks are gaining a mass of money that they do not now receive from the customers, but, no matter what, that mass of money means interest income for five years on a separate account for the bank, and after five years, the customer can again pay an increased instalment. With this, it is clear that the client is not saved, the problem has been temporarily postponed for five years, but his debt continues to tick, continuing to grow in a separate account. That's all, but it's not the answer. It's a beauty flora, a temporary solution to the very serious problem that has developed. The institution of final repayment. The first few government communications commented that with the end-payment, nearly 200,000 Hungarian families were freed from foreign exchange lending. I translate this into Hungarian for you, I also have a freed acquaintance: he went into the commercial bank and converted his foreign currency loan to the other exchange rate changes in fear of HUF credit, and he paid about the same or slightly less repayments after his forint loan than he did after the foreign exchange loan. His case says to a pro-government politician, "Here's a man freed from the trap of currency lending." If I actually look at it, he's really out - he's not moaning foreign currency loans, he's moaning forints. But did his situation really change? Has it improved? Obviously, he wasn't released from the credit trap. [[12.00]] The other connection: what happens to the final repayment? The payer, who can get rid of his current credit either by taking on a new loan or by using his existing savings, will repay the money, get out the best paying, the richest layer, they have the opportunity to get rid of the foreign exchange loan. This hardly helps people with small money, those who are in real credit traps, because they are not affected positively by this measure, but by the richer and the upper middle class. What happens on the bank side? The quality of the loan portfolios is drastically deteriorating as well as well-paying customers are removed from this foreign exchange loan trap by the government, who are drowning in foreign exchange loans, who are terrified of being auctioned and those who remain trapped in this trap. Obviously, it wasn't a good solution either. Now we have a solution where voters are simply seen as children by the government. At a time when this settlement takes place and money wrongly taken from people has to be used for early repayment, there is no freedom for the citizen to have over his own money, which has been unlawfully taken from him for years by the banks. The government will tell you how to use this money. Ladies and gentlemen. This is not a direction that can be supported, but I would add: overall, since this rescue package does help customers, of course, we support it, but on the condition that we look at people as adults and let them decide what they will do with the mass of money that comes back to them in this way. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-16-42	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Two-minute speeches will take place following the first round of speakers in writing. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2014-09-16-43	Mr President, Dear House, Although Kristóf Szatmáry did not wait for the debate to run out, I still have to respond to his words, as he spoke loudly about how much the government is doing for the victims and how carefully it pays attention to the small details. I really want that to happen, which is why I need to draw his attention to a few small details from a distance. For example, in the first instance, if a person was late and had to pay at a rate of HUF 180 on the due date, but after his delay the exchange rate was HUF 185, the bill before us also requires him to account for the difference at HUF 185, so, to say the injured person's fee is, to say the least, bad. It would be gestuous, and it would hardly cost anything to look at the interests of the victims in this case. But what is quite amazing is that this proposal also aims to influence the process of implementation, while at the same time the 2014 XXXVIII. Law - which you know very, very well - states that the debts of debtors are not as much as the financial institutions have defined. This could have been learned from the introduction of the excellent Damm Andrea if they had read it and if they had needed the performance and knowledge of very well-trained civilian experts. It is also clear from this law that in any enforcement case ordered by a notary, the claim cannot be real, and therefore the amount to be carried out is false, so that the suspension of implementation would be more justified than the manipulation or manipulation of such executions than what you would like. And it is true that, in itself, people's right to be denied even the right to appeal and to be suspended by 12,000 lawsuits, it is true that once again they view not only their own constituents as children, but all those who have credit damage, whose stolen property would return, and the right to a provision over stolen property would come back if it were their own property and actually received back. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-16-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, we will continue to make a series of written statements. I give the floor to Congressman Ákos Kara, Fidesz Group.
u2014-09-16-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! One of the most important chapters of bank accountability follows. This summer's decision of the new Parliament served not to make people sue individually. We have set up here in Parliament together the presumption that the banks have always acted unfairly, that the banks could sue against this, and if these lawsuits run - most of them have already run - then it is time to settle. The task of legislation now is to create a law that records, as promised in the summer, the amount of money to be paid back to whom and how it should be paid to debtors, debtors, debtor families. But before dealing with the details of the current bill before us, we must talk about the past period, the bad practice, the period when hundreds of thousands of families were damaged when hundreds of thousands of people were put in danger of their existence. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the irresponsible economic policy of socialist governments, hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families were crippled by foreign currency or forint credit on their shoulders. It is recalled that in 2003 the total housing loan portfolio of the population had not yet reached HUF 1500 billion, and the total rate of foreign currency loans was 1 percent, i.e. the Hungarian families owed less than HUF 20 billion in foreign currency to the banks. However, since 2003, left-wing governments have decided to withdraw the state-funded forint loans and HUF-based home creation programme created by the first Orbán government. We can remember what happened then. After that, Hungarian families were forced to turn to cheap foreign currency loans instead of increased forint loans, and turned to these foreign currency credit schemes, taking on these loans without being aware or aware of the risks of this. They were not aware of the possibility of unilateral contractual amendments and were not aware or assumed that banks would take advantage of the option granted to them by unilateral contractual amendments. Between 2002 and 2010, the amount of foreign exchange loans in the retail sector increased by 140-fold. According to this amount, the Hungarian population already had over HUF 6300 billion of housing loans by 2010. Of this, more than HUF 2800 billion of debt was a foreign currency loan. That's a huge number. At the same time, socialist governments have done nothing to combat the drastic increase in foreign exchange loans between 2002 and 2010, while banks' profits have been outstanding year after year. On the other hand, since 2010, ladies and gentlemen, we have done everything we can to reduce the burden of foreign exchange-credit families that have been in difficulty except for their mistakes. In the framework of the Home Protection Action Programme, more than 500,000 families have been able to provide assistance in some form. As has been said, I repeat, because it is important: 170,000 people have made use of the possibility of final repayment, 180,000 have applied to the exchange rate barrier so far, and nearly 150,000 families have received temporary assistance from the eviction moratorium, while nearly 20 thousand have offered their property to the National Asset Manager. These measures resulted in foreign exchange loans falling by nearly HUF 1100 billion in 4 years, while nearly 150 thousand families were permanently relieved of the unpredictable burden of foreign exchange loans. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us sets out many key rules and detailed rules. I would also like to remind you of the main rules, which will result in, perhaps, the expectation that 1.3 million families will be able to recover unfairly stolen funds from banks, and it is important that not only foreign exchange, but also HUF-based loans - almost 650 thousand - can be affected by our intentions. On average, the instalments may decrease by 25-30 percent, and the 400 financial institutions concerned will then have to account for all foreign currency and HUF loans. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On 16 June 2014, the Curia's legal unit decision, which has often been forgotten, created the conditions for the banks to be fully accounted for in this regard, since the Supreme Court has never stated in Hungary that banks have acted unfairly and abused their dominant position against foreign exchange creditors. [[12.10]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear fellow Members, In my view, at the time of the debate before us, when we decide on the precise rules of the law and we will accept it, we must find a way to keep the banks from being cleared. I would like to remind you that, at the time when we decided on private pension funds in Parliament, it may not be excessive to say that financial institutions at the time tried to avoid liability for a contract. I think that we need to make a law in Parliament in the coming weeks, and next Wednesday we have to end up saying yes to a bill where financial institutions can't do that, and banks can't get out of any contract, and they can't get out of a shady contract. In this way, we can really achieve the intention of making a positive decision in more than 1 million 300 thousand cases, for so many people, for so many Hungarian families. That is why I call on my fellow Members to take an active part in the debate, to keep in mind the course of the debate, so that the banks are not able to get out of accountability and that we can find a satisfactory solution for the Hungarian people. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-16-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Staudt Gábor, Member of the Jobbik Group, will take the floor. I give you the floor.
u2014-09-16-47	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Indeed, we have a very important proposal ahead of us, and it can be said that it can also solve this problem in its parts, but unfortunately, we have never been satisfied with the half-solutions ourselves. Although Dániel Z. Kárpát and János Volner highlighted very important aspects in front of me, I would like to convince you to go through with the accountability that has begun or the settlement of the situation, so we can call it. And is this true of the present state or even of the long-lasting fortification promised by Antal Rogán - if you can believe yesterday's papers - in the spring? It may arise in this context, in connection with forinting, that you do not plan this in the way that it would actually be in line with law and morality. I would like to add the idea that my fellow Members also said that the problem existed in 2010 - and in the same way when you first won the election by two thirds - and here the problem is not only some sort of moral obligation to settle, but, as the Minister of Justice said, this is a legal problem: these credit agreements were not suitable, they were defective products, and even - you now acknowledge that - the banks have acted unfairly. For the time being, you acknowledge that you have acted unfairly in a circle that has unilaterally increased interest rates on loans, but we hope that there will be a time when this will be extended even to the basic problem of foreign exchange loans, the issue of exchange rate and foreign currency lending. If, on the other hand, this is the case - and why not accept what the Minister of Justice said - it is your responsibility not only to wait with a bill for more than four years, but also to know in 2010 whether or not these were defective products and wrongful interest rate increases; if they did not know, they won the 2010 elections with insufficient expertise, insufficient preparation and development. Or if they knew and waited until four and a half years, then there is a case where you fooled people and waited until the municipal elections, not until the 2010 municipal elections, but unfortunately until the 2014 elections. Why say what may now be partially recognised by everyone, and Jobbik said first that these loans should be forinted? By the way, in parentheses, the surprising turn is that now the MSZP is talking about forinting, and it has moved all the way to the point that it considers the 2010 exchange rate; a few more months, and even the MSZP will say that these loans should be HUFed at the rate of the recording. I wasn't afraid of the MSZP, although the fact that most of their voters can no longer support it, and if they lose both banks and large multi-enterprises now, they won't have much support. Of course, this should be their job, but we should take the side of the people, and if there is such a situation that the MSZP is saying the same thing, then it would be possible to accept in Parliament a forintation, a strict forintation that would seem to be accepted by all parliamentary parties. If that were the case, it would obviously be more difficult to attack outwards or even in international forums, I'm quite sure. Maybe the MSZP wouldn't do it to vote here in Parliament, and then in Brussels, he yells snakes and frogs at this proposal. Although the Secretary of State may disagree with me on this, and he can imagine that the MSZP will vote in favour of a proposal at home and then drill it in Brussels; perhaps the Secretary of State knows even better the international activities of the MSZP than I do. But back to the basic problem, it is true that in the various lawsuits against banks in which they tried to raise the foreign exchange issue with qualified lawyers, so whether there was actually a currency behind these loans, in which case the banks could not prove in any way that they included currency in these transactions. How could it be? Or how can a bank prove that? The first way is that he started the transfer in foreign currency, and the money arrives on the client's forint account, and somewhere between the two it will be converted. If the bank had such a certificate, a reference note stating that he, say, transferred this money in Swiss francs, and the client received it in HUF, then the bank could prove that he had actually started this reference in the correct currency. Believe me and imagine that banks, however strange, cannot prove this. And the B-variation might arise that before they transferred it from their own HUF account to the client's HUF account, they converted this amount, the Swiss franc into HUF, and they would have to present a conversion certificate from the time the transaction was executed, and they wouldn't be able to present this either, because if they could or would have had one, they would obviously have presented it in these lawsuits. By the way, I am sorry, and I have to tell Dániel Z. Karpát that the suspension of lawsuits in this way also prevented the court from saying - and in many cases he would have said so, and that has already happened, if I have heard correctly, first-rate judgements - that not only did these interest rates increase unilaterally and unfairly, but the loan to the currency itself was actually a forint loan, which, I have to say, was fraudulently linked to a foreign exchange rate. Now, unfortunately, this will not be announced in the future, because these lawsuits, which have been launched and not only in the case of unfair one-sided interest payments, will not be concluded. And to add another argument system to the list that the government might argue to the banks, this is nothing more than to see how banks keep track of these debts. In their official books, not the ones sent to the client. Is it recorded in foreign currency or in forints? They will see that these debts are denominated in HUF, so that banks present to the client a kind of foreign exchange register, in many cases means a kind of black-booking. I ask the question: if Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, by the way, tried to conduct a kind of black double bookkeeping, so there is an official one that, let's say, is presented to their business partners, I think that the NAV and the various public bodies would strike very hard. Then why couldn't this happen for the banks? And why can't they go through these checks to this day? And there is another very important point that has been said less by the speakers before me, and that is the scope of consumer contracts. It is clear that this whole package of accounting and accounting is mainly aimed at consumer contracts and consumer loans. The problem is also serious because what constitutes or who is a consumer has been reduced by the legislative practice of the last few years to a limit that would not have been acceptable before, and is partly contrary to previous legislation. We have already said this when the new civil code was adopted. [[12.20]] The point is that consumers are narrowed down to individuals by the new regulation, and not only by the current rules, but also by the Hungarian legal system in this direction. Thus, only individuals are considered consumers, and this is neither necessarily beneficial nor fair in many cases. What's this about? Earlier, and here I would also recall the previous Hungarian rules, the consumer was the one who concluded a contract for a particular reason, even outside his business. I'll give you a simple example. If the arctic spicy one, who is a small entrepreneur or micro-contractor, and, say, enters into a utility contract, then it is quite clear that, according to the logic of common sense, he is a consumer and is not on equal terms with the large utility company or even with other multi-company companies. Especially if he deals with, say, vegetable-fruit sales, and neither legal expertise nor economic knowledge is available, so that he can actually be regarded as a market participant, especially in the circle in which he concluded the contract. If that is the case, then the previous regulation rightly stated that they should also be considered as consumers. Unfortunately, and we said this when the new civil code was adopted, it is very wrong to close this option and narrow down the definition of consumers for individuals. This regulation is just coming back, and it's coming back. Because the small and medium-sized entrepreneur who took out a loan and turned it into his business, but he either gave his own property or his own private estate as collateral, unfortunately he could also be left out of this circle. And this is also painful because we have seen that, in recent times, very strict banking lending rules have been in place for various economic operators, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. Many have tried to avoid this or, in a better way, try to obtain credit by including, where appropriate, their private assets or by taking out loans that will not qualify as being held accountable under this law. But they deserve to be helped. It is also true that, although my fellow pro-government Members have said that the whip will not strike at businesses, it is difficult to believe this in our present form, since the banks will obviously flee where they can. Therefore, they will certainly tighten up lending in the various economic sectors, and we fear that this will again only hit small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary the most, and not the multinationals that are already receiving a large number of tax incentives, either in the form of subsidies and tax incentives other than government. Allow me to end by bringing up the problem that has also been mentioned, but we cannot go by it, and that is to say, in the case of early repayment, it is in everyone's interest to deduct it from the outstanding debt. This could be applied as the main rule, it could be said that those who do not indicate this should indeed be the solution if they do not indicate within a time interval the relevant currency-creditor. But there are situations in life where it is not the best solution, and it would really be good to leave it to the people. This is all the more true, because in the case of foreign exchange loans, as I explained at the beginning, in most cases, unfortunately, after fictitious performance, banks were able to make a very real profit in their pocket, so the debt of customers only increased on paper. After that, to subtract from a fictitious debt a certain part of the loan shark or to withdraw the loan shark, this is actually an operation that banks will feel less, while customers have paid very real money to these financial institutions every month. So the best way to do this would be to let customers decide in what form they would like to settle their overpayment with the bank, or to stay under the main rule that this would be deducted from the debt, or the other case would be to make this money payable by the bill from the banks. For in this case, the banks should indeed put something on the table, they really should make a payment, just as the credible have made these overpayments year after year, month after month. If this is not included in the proposal now, then, in fact, as I have said, another amount will be deducted from a fictitious amount, an amount existing on paper, so the banks will not feel it in any way. Don't believe them when they say the opposite. Obviously, it is in their interest to maintain these debts and make them bigger, but they will not withdraw, nor will they be ruined, since it is enough to look at their accounts. I see my time is up, so I would like to thank Mr President, thank the House, and of course we will support the proposal, but we trust that you will change your mind and bring in the forinting as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-16-48	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Pál Völner, Fidesz Group.
u2014-09-16-49	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps the comments that have been made so far have shown the complexity of the issue faced by the government that created the legislation. After all, from that opinion to the fear of the banks until we let go of all debts to the debtors, everything will be said in the room. In fact, there is an opinion that both should be implemented at the same time, if I have understood certain words of representation. Obviously, these are physical impossibilitys. Compared to this, we have managed to make a legally sound and coherent proposal from the government, which is definitely eligible. This bill is a very important step in the process of closing the social and economic problem that has hit Hungarian families most in the last decade. The bill can create a fair banking system in Hungary. To this end, the legislator had to look at the specific cases and deal with them together as a result of the measures taken in recent years to assist foreign exchange creditors. In 2011, within the framework of the Home Protection Action Programme, the end-payment programme created the possibility for the Swiss franc to pay HUF 180, for the euro HUF 250, and for Japanese yen at a rate of HUF 2 for those who were able to generate the funds for this. According to the data of the former Financial Institutions' State Supervisory Board, almost 170 thousand foreign exchange-loans have repaid their foreign exchange credit at a fixed rate of HUF 1354 billion. In their case, foreign exchange exposure was eliminated, while the foreign currency loan stock concerned decreased by close to a quarter. The credit institution shall be accountable to the clients that are subject to a special request from the client. From the amount returned, according to the interpretation of our sources, the exchange rate discount used for the final repayment must be deducted. The client can initiate the refund between 1 March and 31 March 2015, when he can initiate this procedure for a fee of HUF 10 thousand, which he will receive when it turns out that the bank has an actual payment obligation. Also in 2011, the National Asset Manager was created for the credentials in the most difficult situations. His goal was not to lose his property in the crooked long term. The ownership of the mortgaged property is transferred to the asset manager, but the former owner may remain or remain in the property as a tenant. By mid-2014, nearly 20,000 properties were offered to the National Asset Manager. In the case of customers using the help of the National Asset Manager, the bank and the asset manager are essentially accounted for, and the client does not receive a refund, as he has already received a large amount of assistance. In such a case, the client may also require the debt manager to account for the loans transferred to the debt manager. [[12.30]] The debt manager is obliged to pay the client, but part of the amount may be claimed by the debt manager from the debtor bank. On the basis of the request by credit institutions and financial undertakings for their foreign exchange-based mortgage lending clients, a total of 174 488 price barriers were concluded between April 2012 and July 2014, which together with the previous 5712 exchange-rate barrier contract is 185 thousand pieces. The proportion of collector accounts opened by credit institutions is 35.8% compared to the number of retail foreign exchange loans and mortgage loans. The stock of foreign exchange loans with fixed repayment rates was HUF 1502 billion at the end of July 2014. By the end of June 2011, the collection account stock reached HUF 23.7 billion. Foreign exchange-credited customers participating in the price barrier scheme have so far been exempted from paying interest above a fixed exchange rate of HUF 42 billion, which saves HUF 225 thousand in the case of a credit-debtor protected by an average price barrier. The exchange rate blockers shall account for the amount returned first for the collection account and then for the foreign currency loan, as stated in the ministerial exposé. In the case of the former, the counterparty's foreign exchange claim shall be accounted for according to the current rate of the MNB. In the settlement, the amount of the claim taken over by the banks shall be reduced by the amount of the return. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it can be seen from what has been said that the banks are accountable for all credit contracts, whether forint or foreign currency credit, because this is how we can create the possibility for every Hungarian family to get back hundreds of thousands of forints illegally taken from it, and then finally create a fair banking system in Hungary, without prejudice to both debtors and the business environment, which would have more serious social implications. Thank you for your attention and for your support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-16-50	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Staudt Gábor, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-09-16-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not understand my fellow Member, Pál Völner. What do you mean it's physically impossible to conduct the two at the same time? It is necessary to examine whether there were foreign currency loans or not. In most cases - I say 95 percent, but it may be worse - there were no foreign exchange loans, banks cannot prove that currency was actually made available or included at the beginning of the transactions. I would suggest, or would have suggested, that this proposal should have been tabled - and this is true of the spring proposal - that it should have been said, or, as should have been the case for the currency fund, the banks should have determined that the burden of proof would have been reversed here, and that they should have had to prove that they had included currency in the transactions by applying refinancing or own resources properly. And if they couldn't prove it, then these lawsuits would have failed and the court could have said or said - we still have before us to have such a law - that they were indeed forint loans and treated as such, and then the clearing obligation would have been established retroactively between the client and the bank. So the same method that you have done in the case of unilateral unfair contractual amendments - by the way, quite rightly - in this part, so maybe one half of the problem could have been solved, should have been extended in the case of currency. By the way, it is enough to look at the statistics of the Hungarian National Bank, about one fifth of which came into the country in foreign currency, as we are talking about foreign currency loans, and by the way, that foreign exchange import did not come to the retail sector, but came into the country in various inter-bank operations or even for parking at the National Bank. So that's one way to make this law. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-16-52	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A two-minute speech was submitted by MEP Pál Völner, Fidesz Group. I give you the floor.
u2014-09-16-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry if I misunderstood. The dual expectation is that banks will not be harmed, and debtors will get everything. That's what my comment was about. Thank you.
u2014-09-16-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the series of speeches in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Congressman János Harghitai, KDNP Group.
u2014-09-16-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Thus, as a speaker, in addition to presenting the substance of the bill before us, which is important to pass into the public, because it is a very large law, I also have the opportunity, as many speakers, to reflect on what my fellow Members have said, of course, primarily my fellow opposition Members, because at this time the public understood something of what was happening in Parliament during a general debate. I would like to begin with Zsuzsa Szelényi, a congresswoman, who is unfortunately no longer in the room. He said some pretty interesting things. His number one claim was that Fidesz has been responsible for everything for a long time. Obviously, we are in government, so such a simple sentence can be released here within the walls of Parliament. The other thing is that what we are doing now is just a kind of squash, because we are fooling the people involved - there are a lot of people, 1.3 million families - and then it got to the real sentence of the congresswoman to be careful, because we are breaking up the banking system and there will be social chaos. He said all of this, of course, from the shadow of former Prime Minister Bajnai, who has the inexorable merit of talking about this issue in these circumstances. If I recall the speakers of all the other opposition parties, the first statement I should mention is that the speakers of each party recorded their basic support for the adoption of this law and made a number of critical remarks, which would obviously be worth mentioning separately, but this is not possible. It is essential that a very large majority of Parliament will support this law. Obviously, we can conclude that this is a government step in a very good direction. But we also know that this is not the end of things. Even in 2010, when the Orbán government was ready for governance, it knew well that the biggest problem facing this country was debt, which meant the debt of the state, including the municipalities, and unfortunately, what was most difficult and difficult to deal with, meant the debt of individuals. 1.3 million families, because we always see the family behind a contract, so we can say that one third of Hungarian families are affected, so Hungarian society is affected in every way on this issue. Not only are those affected who sit up to their necks in debt because they have taken on foreign currency loans or forints, and so the banks have treated them or may have dealt with them, they are also affected by those who do not have this type of contract. This country cannot recover in a way that we would like to do until we can reduce our indebtedness and remedy our foreign exchange exposure in some way, in some way, to help this issue. The Orbán government was aware of that. We inherited an impossible budget situation, but we had to run the country. We were interested then, and we are also interested today in a banking system. A government never moves in such a vacuum that, by a two-thirds majority, it tells us we're gonna clean up and we're gonna do this. That's what opposition representatives know. It's a domino game, we're taking a step today, the next step tomorrow and the next step after that. That's why I said we were negotiating a very important law, but we're not at the end of the process. To tell us that in 2010, we didn't do anything, to say the least, it's ridiculous. In some way, we may not have handled the case of 500,000 families the most successful, but we managed it when we created the asset manager, and we tried to help about 18,000 people in the most difficult situations when we introduced the exchange rate barrier, which, I note, would have allowed everyone to live, even if they didn't believe in this solution, because they didn't consider it a permanent solution, or when we brought up the institution of end repayment. The biggest act the government has ever achieved, yet I still think of the whole transformation of public thought on this issue. The reason why we are discussing this issue today is because we have now been able to create that not only political public sentiment in this country, but perhaps the general public thinking that the country accepts that we should act in this way on these issues. [[12.40]] I would like to remind my fellow Members here that we have also been thinking about helping those in trouble from our budget resources that are leaky and barely existing, that the state has to play a role here, that the banks have to play a role, and that stakeholders have to play a role here. We knew well then, we all knew here in Parliament that it was very difficult to get involved in these private contracts in a rule of law so that the state, what, politics, would not burn their fingers. We knew that the banks were strong and that this issue was being pushed to every forum, as they did, up to the international forums, i.e. the European Court of Justice. We knew that in the Hungarian court system there was no practice in dealing with such mass cases. We were well aware that the banking system was pushing this issue away. Do we remember, fellow Members, those comments? Opponents stood up when Viktor Orbán, as Prime Minister, said a strong sentence in which, if you like, he expressed social expectations about the operation of the banking system, or the then Minister of Justice, Minister Navracsics, spoke. We expected the Curia to face these issues, seeing the lawsuits that private people have started, and based on the events that have taken place, everyone has seen that a judicial resolution is also needed here, so that this issue can be resolved in a rather normal way. At the time, opposition representatives took a stand against the government on how we want to enforce independent justice decisions. That is why I tell you that this thought had to be embedded in every possible way, so that we could come here today with such a bill, and here the decision of the Curia on 16 June 2014 was a key element, and on 16 June they made this decision as a legal unit, in which they said very important items about when a contract could be considered unfair. On the 4th of July, so in half a month's time, we made a fundamental law before our summer break, in which we said two things. We said that the use of the exchange rate gap was unfair, that could no longer be debated on the basis of the bank decision, and we assumed in the law that unilateral interest rate increases were unfair, giving the banks the opportunity to prove in judicial forums the opposite. This is still happening. We have already seen the decisions of the judicial forums. We see that courts in general, if you like, give us the truth, they give the government the truth when they consider the unilateral interest rate increase of banks unfair. We are now in a position to talk about this situation, that if it is true that today this is the decision of legal forums, if you will, the government's intention and a social public opinion is a reasonable solution to deal with these issues, and this is how we deal with these issues, to come here with a law that tells us how to deal with this huge problem now. We are talking about 680,000 foreign currency loans based on 650,000 forints. We had to come up with a law that once again doesn't put the fight on the side of the unprepared, the weak man, but gives the banks a task, and the banks are told that from now on you're going to be accounted for, you're going to have to account for your clients with statutory force and strict deadlines. He raised Mr Schiffer's objection to the fact that the method, if you like, is a legal formula that is the exact method of accounting, not laid down in the law. He's a much wiser lawyer than that, so he knows that if we do, it's gonna get us out of here. We're talking 1 million 300,000 contracts, as many contracts as we have. If the legislator were such a bitch that he wanted to answer every unforeseen question in a law, it would certainly drag the cases away and make matters more difficult, because if we didn't calculate something, we would have to amend the law. It is quite obvious that the details should be entrusted to the Hungarian National Bank; in this case, the Hungarian National Bank will be a rule-maker, because it will regulate these issues in a regulation, but will not only regulate them, but will also check what the banks will do in this case in relation to their clients. I think that only this procedure is feasible and that is reassuring. It is important that contracts can be reviewed and enforced by the deadline. Here is your claim to the law, and there is no other solution that the banks have to account for their clients in cases that are not yet overdue. This means that after 26 July 2009 contracts have been terminated, which we can still look back on in this respect. I think that the process technique that we are drawing up here in this law is the only way to go. Of course, it is also possible to argue why we are only looking at credible consumer contracts. We didn't have the guts to say that, in the case of credit contracts - I'm talking about consumer credit contracts - behind which, let's say, we wanted to buy a car and extend these contracts to that, too. Everything is extended, so everything that a private individual has made, whether in foreign currency or in forints, will now be subject to this law. I think that there was a very far-reaching law before us, as we say, in Tapolca someone said at our opening season meeting, perhaps the Prime Minister, in the area of the regime change, was before us, for understandable reasons, such a question of fate, such as compensation issues. Let us not now open a debate on whether or not he was treated well, but it was also such a matter of mass fate. It was the change of regime that brought us to face such issues. What we have ahead of us is our mistakes, or it was from unfair previous practices. There are insurmountable flaws in the socialist government and the state institutions that have allowed this to happen. Everything about the Fidesz government can be said, except that you didn't want to deal with it. Obviously, he couldn't and he can't solve these cases by pressing a button today. But today, we were looking for a way to hurt the consequences of what happened yesterday. The banks are going to be hurt as much as their clients are hurting and hurting today and yesterday. They will return to the forint exactly what the court now considers to have been taken from them by unfair procedure, and when I am talking about unfair proceedings, it is not like this, if you like, to be a category of punishment that I hang on the bank, but it is a legally measurable category, because the Curia said that the application of the unilateral exchange rate gap or interest rate increases is unfair, and in such a case these contracts, as far as possible, must be re-recruited in the procedural order that we have fixed here. And, of course, we are not at the end of the process, my fellow Members, opposition representatives rightly say that we are still not at the forinting stage. I am convinced that we can say that we can handle these things together, but we are unable to handle them together. The forinting will raise even such huge problems that we cannot face yet, but we will face the next step. Now I ask you to support the government in this, and also to help with the information, because it is extremely important that the 1 million 300 thousand people who dream of this type of contract still today know well what the solution will be, and keep track of how their life situation will improve from tomorrow. Let's put our political passwords aside, because it's a bigger case than getting the public out of Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-09-16-56	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Kiss, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-09-16-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I think that one of the important things that can be said in this House in relation to the bill is that there is consensus that all parliamentary parties are on the party of foreign exchange creditors on this issue. No matter what anyone says, it's the truth. [[12.50]] On the other hand, the Socialist Party is not a partner in the nutmeg bath that conceals the responsibility of the Fidesz government on this issue, even if Jobbik, the largest opposition party, is engaged in this kind of activity. I think it is quite funny that all speakers, with the exception of the previous speaker, have devoted at least one third of their message to the alleged responsibility of the Socialist Party, the previous government, while four years have passed since the MSZP was out of government in this country, and things could have happened during that time. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: It's happened!]] I believe that there is, of course, a remedy for the ideas that have been expressed about the MSZP either from my better fellow Members or from some Members with fidesz. Psychiatrists can find solutions if someone dreams and needs to know what the MSZP should or should not do on this issue. Let's look at the facts. The first is that the MSZP wants to solve the problem, and the problem is that the situation of foreign exchange lenders is unsustainable, and this law is indisputably responding to it. That's the problem. And the solution is to resolve this situation with the power of law, which is why we are here. It is not a fight for freedom against the sixth thought or real enemies, it is not a need to do a communication treatment, which my fellow Member, who spoke to me, apostulated so that we had to prepare the public for this excellent proposal over several years, no, that is not the case; we have to solve the problems, not talk about them, and create enemies where they are not necessarily. I think that everyone who wants to do something about foreign exchange credentials is a friend of this proposal and an enemy of everyone who doesn't. So it's a shame to find enemies where they're friends and find friends where they're enemies. Some conceptual problems were also mentioned in the previous debate. There's always this blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah. I'd like to point out that there's no such thing as extra profit. There's such a thing as fair profit and unfair profit. For example, it is a fair profit when an international inventor Ernő Rubik may be able to make money from the invention that made Hungary world famous as Rubik's Cube. No one should ask him how much he benefits from this, for the country is even greater. And it's an unfair gain when Andy Vajna gets a billion forints out of his VAT so that he can build his casino empire better. You see, that's the difference between fair and unfair profits. I don't know if there's an extra pro - I don't think there is. The foreign currency credit scheme has existed since 2001, one of the important inventions of a gentleman named Járai Zsigmond - interesting that this tiny fact is forgotten by everyone. He is obviously a politician related to the Hungarian Socialist Party, and in 2001 we were also in power - this statement can also be made with a good heart, of course, within these walls. This construction was created in 2001 and, without a doubt, in 2008, when the global economic crisis reached Hungary, we witnessed the collapse of the construction. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You can't be serious!]] Yeah. It is true, therefore, that the collapse in 2008 also affected this sector negatively. Interestingly, we heard yesterday about a presentation that Fidesz is also leading back to this crisis in 2008. Yesterday, it was a rational decision in the foreign affairs system, and now it's a curse. We have to decide what we're talking about. Of course, everyone has a responsibility, and this must not be taken away. Due to the economic policy of the Orbán government, payments on average increased by 40 percent. If we look back over the past period, we can see that 70 percent was the average increase in payments, of which 40 percent was the damage caused by the economic policy of the Orbán government. In 2010, only HUF 974 billion was lost to foreign exchange lenders thanks to the government's crappy economic policy. 974 billion forints! This means that your mistake cost every Hungarian person 97,000 forints on average. Please, who's gonna pay this bill? The Hungarian people will pay for it, and they will have to do it because of you. We didn't talk about another 30 percent increase. How did that work out? It came together that, after 2010, government measures did not prevent banks from raising their interest rates, but imposed an extra tax on banks, which passed some of this on to customers. So what we are talking about is that there is a 30 percent amount that has been well shared by banks and you with taxpayers' money. You have not been accounted for; you have accounted for your profits. They accounted for this 30 percent profit together with the banks, and apparently everyone had it, except for the people - they had a further increase in their repayments because of your mistake. Of course, we can fight the freedom fight against the banks, but if we look at what really happens, we can see that banks are not always opponents. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Mihály Patai commends President Matolcsy in May 2014 for his excellent monetary policy, and we always see that in some cases it is clear that there is collusion between Fidesz and the Banking Federation. Please, it's possible to communicate what kind of freedom fight is going on, I don't know who it is, the on-call enemy you're making up, and in fact, to play behind people's backs. Let's look at the Socialist Party's proposal. On the one hand, these issues need to be resolved by the end of 2014. You guys have been promising me for a very long time to solve the problems of foreign exchange credentials permanently, and I'm a partner in that. That is why we have proposed, both before and now, that you submit by the end of 2014 a regulation that will finally settle this issue. If this comes before us, we will support it. We also suggested fixing the rate of credit at the rate of the month of the 2010 parliamentary elections, so that the damage your economic policy has caused to people should not be borne. Dear House, Yesterday Viktor Orbán adopted the bat as a bird or as a mouse. It's just a small mistake, a mistake in education, because we know that bat is a single order, not a bird, not a mouse. What's worse, though, is that you see the bat as a bird, not just the bat, but the voters, the people. Please don't do this, don't think of them as birds, take them seriously. I would like all our proposals aimed at improving this proposal, such as using the exchange rate for the month of parliamentary elections and addressing the issues by 2014 [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Professional!]] Take this into account, because we believe that a consensus can be reached in this House to solve the problems of foreign exchange lenders. Please, this House, look at the problems and do not do any more rhetorical exercises, not another fight for freedom. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-16-58	Thank you very much. Welcome. We will continue to debate the bill. Here comes Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP. You have the floor, please.
u2014-09-16-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Like Mr János Harghitai, I have listened to the debate, a lot has been said, and I do not wish to repeat anything, so I would just like to reflect on a few things. This draft legislation itself and this subject does not tolerate any jokes at all, yet I think of the one-time person who wags the cat by the tail, and when they ask him what he's doing, he says it makes him happy. And how? The one where you let her go. That's what Fidesz does to foreign exchange lenders, that it takes years to pull a problem, that it takes years to find a solution, and when it could have been solved earlier, there was no effort. [[13.00]] And that hurts me because if there had not been an appropriate proposal for this, it would not have put down either the LMP or Jobbik expert proposals that would have led to the resolution of the situation years ago, it would not have been necessary to draw on this as an election campaign, and there would have been a way to bring this problem to Parliament much sooner. My first pleasant experience with the debate on the agenda is that several pro-government representatives took part in the debate. In part, this is not customary, and in part, Antal Rogán spoke for 15 minutes without saying the word "refund" once, which is a special surprise since I came to Parliament, so it is a special compliment to the pro-government representatives that they are doing so in order to avoid them. Both Mr Harghitai and Dániel Z. Kárpát have, in my view, been absolutely right to criticise the opinion of our joint fellow Member, thereby defending the banks. However, let me say one thing from what you have to say, that when the government talks about the accountability of the banks, and is constantly speaking about the accountability of the banks in the presentation of the Minister, then why does the accountability of the central bank not go into this, why does it not say the responsibility of the central bank's monetary policy to have an impact on this whole matter, and at the moment, how much damage is caused by its everyday activity to Hungarian society? And if accountability of banks is a serious objective of the government, then what would be useful is that all of this would be meaningful. Both the Minister and Congressman Völner have said this phrase "the time for fair banks is coming,'which is a paradox for me in the first place, that this can happen. This is a dilemma arising from compound money, that there is even a fair bank time to come, but I wish the government that it would come. At the same time, however, I wish that when the time for fair banks comes, not just the time for fair banks, but also the time for fair governments, which would now be really timely for it to happen. And that is important, because the completely legitimate and emotional outbursts against banks are, I think, well-founded, which calls attention to the fact that all the banks have committed against good morals, in line with the legal framework and the legal environment, and the current government wants to restore legality by virtue of the power of good morals. I hope that at some point, the present government will receive the same challenge when, apparently, they do a legal offense against good morals with a lot of other activities. And it's very, very difficult for me to dismiss what I've already suggested that both Jobbik and LMP had a previous proposal for a solution. At today's meeting of the Justice Committee, an LMP proposal was off the agenda to pay the mayors of small settlements, and yesterday we spoke on the Committee on Agriculture about the proposal to abolish undivided joint ownership, also on the part of the government. Is it not against good morals that the question of the problems that are real takes them off the agenda with purely political intent, postpones them so that they can later be saved and defended in their daily political activities? My fellow Member, Mr András Schiffer, Mr Group Leader, has said our party's position, and we will, of course, support the motion, but we would like to thank you for considering all the positive opposition comments that have been made in part. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-16-60	Thank you very much. Mr Dániel Z. Karpát asked for a two-minute comment, Jobbik. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-09-16-61	Mr President, Dear House, I am very pleased that my fellow Member László Kiss has returned, so I can address my words to the Hungarian voice of the banks, because he has made a very instructive voice speech in which he has put all responsibility for the crisis which took place in 2008 and for the period that followed. At the same time, I would remind you that in 2008 there was the greatest lending tendency, but by now 98 percent of this type of credit has already been allocated. At the time, however, the Competition Authority indicated that the situation was unpredictable, unmanageable, and that the legislation should be adapted. In 2007, a bill was made on this matter. During your regency, this only became a partial-solution law in 2010. It should also be said that 40 percent of so-called foreign currency loans have already been well placed in the period 2007-2008. So in these two years, during your regency, it can be said that the abuses, the types of abuse, have been up and running, and they have been amazing. At the same time, let's see what you were telling the truth about. He was right about the 30-40 percent increase in payments after 2010, but if your professional suggestion is to return to a 2010 exchange rate, what do you do? The average price at the time of admission was 165 HUF. So the amount of money moving at the rate between 165 and you, so you'd leave part of the stolen property at the commercial banks. Anyone who says that is an agent of the banks. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-16-62	Thank you very much. Mr László Kiss has the floor, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-09-16-63	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Yeah, we're used to that. Of course, everyone who has a different position than Jobbik is some kind of agent. I am certainly not an agent of Moscow, as one of you is likely to be a Member of the European Parliament. Well, I wouldn't be pushing the agent question very hard if I were you, because if we put the word "agent" in Google, then maybe KGBela would be the first to come out. At the same time, I think that the story you keep telling about the evil banks and the naive client should also be observed more closely, because there are many representatives in these benches in Fidesz and Jobbik who have foreign exchange loans. I'm not one of these congressmen, by the way. In front of my mind, there is a picture of these otherwise well-informed, good people being forced by banks to sign these contracts. And when one of the newspapers was talking yesterday about how good this proposal would be for which Member of Parliament, I think the direction is wrong. However, it is certain that in many cases the banks have deceived customers, and that is why I say that everyone in this House is on the side of the deceived customers. Everyone. Please accept that there are considerations that are different from your solutions. This does not necessarily mean that anyone who says anything other than what you say is already an agent of someone, except Moscow, which we discussed earlier, but may have other considerations. Everyone's on the side of the credible, but you might want to find a different way to solve this case. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-16-64	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] No. Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. Proposals for amendments may be submitted by 16:00 today, according to a derogation from the adopted house rule. That concludes the general debate. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on amending individual laws in relation to budgetary planning and the more efficient provision of money market and utility services will follow up until closure. The submission is T/1271. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Speaker has appointed the Economic Committee to hold a detailed debate on this proposal. First, I give the floor to Mrs Lászlóné Németh, Secretary of State, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State has a maximum of 30 minutes. Here you go.
u2014-09-16-65	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill before you envisages a number of important legislative amendments which, taken together, are of overall strategic importance for the effectiveness of the country's operation. The provisions in the proposed amendment cover a number of areas, some parts of them implement operational experience and address problems that make daily operation difficult by eliminating rationalisation and interpretation uncertainties. In the case of other provisions, the proposals of professional and advocacy organisations were incorporated in this amending proposal. At several points, the amendment aims to ensure compliance with EU directives and the decisions of the Constitutional Court. [[13.10]] By fine-tuning the legislation adopted previously, the bill will allow the public institutions, professional organisations and other co-operatives affected by the amendment to carry out their tasks significantly more effectively in the future. [[In the notary seat, László Földi is replaced by Dr. István Tiba.]] And then about the amendment proposals themselves. The backbone of the bill is given by provisions of a financial and economic development nature. The draft law aims to amend the 2014 CXCV on public finances. Law. As a result of the amendment, the government has more time to submit the bill on the central budget to the Parliament, i.e. the deadline will be extended until 31 October, in the argument for the general election of Members of Parliament. The amendment requested by the County City Association also gives municipalities more time to prepare their budgets after the elections, and I think that this is a worthy request. With regard to the 98 per cent special tax, the proposal amends the 2010 XC on the establishment and amendment of certain economic and financial laws. a provision on a special tax governed by law. On 31 December 2013, the special tax rate decreased from 98 per cent to 75 per cent, so it became necessary to settle the situation of individuals subject to a 98 per cent tax obligation. On the basis of the proposal, instead of the obligation set at 98 per cent and the related consequences, it will set a so-called flat-rate public liability. This amendment takes into account the relevant decision of the EU Court of Justice and acts in a legally binding manner on the relevant legislation. CXXXV of 2013 on the integration of cooperative credit institutions and amending certain economic legislation The amendment of the Act allows Parliament to amend the law on cooperative credit institutions in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. On the basis of the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court, the bill will establish a new order of constituencies in the universality and clarify the question of the duration of the universality in respect of exits and exclusions. In view of the above, the proposal establishes a sequence of compliance, in line with constitutional requirements, by placing SZHISZ itself in the queue before cooperative credit institutions. The bill complies with the constitutional requirements that standard rules may contain only mandatory elements which are essential to the achievement of the objectives of the law or are intended to implement the law. In line with the needs of cooperative integration, the proposal allows a bank and a specialised credit institution to join the integration process by amending the credit institution law. In parallel, it seemed appropriate - and the draft was drawn up accordingly - to implement the cooperative credit institution law and to meet the needs of the cooperative sector in order to ensure that a cooperative credit institution and a non-cooperative credit institution can merge with the contribution of the integration organisation on the basis of the prior agreement of the Savings Bank. In addition, amendments have been made to make the activities of SZHISZ more effective and to sum up the experience of the last year of operation. Among the proposals to amend legislation on financial and economic matters, there is a rather clear line that focuses on improving the operating conditions of the state-owned entity. These are proposed legislative changes which indirectly provide easier access to services for businesses and citizens achieved by the companies concerned and contribute to the balance of the budget. Accordingly, the amendment of the MFB Act clarifies the concept of development capital financing, partly expands it and partly clarifies the conceptual separation of venture capital investment and development capital financing. This is primarily required by the new rules on forms of collective investment. The draft legislation also allows the MFB to pay dividends to the budget in the future. The MFB Act and the 2008 XL on gas supply. The amendment of Law allows MFB, a company owned by MFB, to obtain a limited natural gas trading permit. The Get. The scope of access to a limited natural gas trading permit may be extended, which has previously been unduly restricted. The Get. Moreover, the broader objective of this amendment is to increase the number of companies involved in the supply of gas, thus increasing the security of supply for the general public. At the same time, there is one thing that must be stressed. With regard to the natural gas trader named by the MFB Act, the government has a more important role to play in implementing the national energy strategy to the Development Bank. This energy strategy prioritises the issue of security of gas supply, and the government has already taken and intends to take more coordinated steps to this end. MFB Zrt. Thus, by establishing a 100% owned natural gas dealer, a natural gas trader with a public interest is created which can provide a financing background for the purchase of additional commercial natural gas stocks. The government is able to further increase the natural gas supply at Hungary's disposal and make maximum use of the commercial storage capacity at its disposal. However, it is important to note and stress that the company founded by MFB will not be involved in domestic security of supply at the expense of existing public companies and operators, but in cooperation with them. Another important thing I would like to mention is that the MFB has already been able to demonstrate its competence in similar transactions, it has taken part in the Hungarian Gas Tranzit Zrt., which builds and operates the Slovak-Hungarian connecting gas pipeline, and is currently part owner of the MMBF Földgázsható Zrt. The intention to streamline and improve efficiency is also behind the proposal to amend the law on Eximbank and Community Customs Code. The amendment makes it more rational to regulate Eximbank's senior officials, allows Eximbank's activities to be further expanded and the bank can also participate in the financing of the investment carried out by its customers. The proposal also provides for the possibility for Eximbank and Mehib to have access to customs secrets to the extent necessary for their activities, while also clarifying the scope of this access and the purpose of data processing. [[13.20]] The draft law amends the 2012 CLIX on postal services in several places. Law. Legal compliance, the efficient functioning of public bodies and alignment with EU standards are also the most important moments. The draft is the 76th Postal Act. It amends §2 of the Act so as to enable the central budget to reimburse the additional costs incurred by the public service provided by Magyar Posta in respect of the years 2013 and 14 respectively. A next amendment is that the privileges of the designated universal postal service provider are named as contracting rights with a partner organisation. However, it should be noted that the partner organisation, since the activity it carries out is fully defined by the universal service provider, is not subject to accounting separation requirements and that the revenue associated with its activity should therefore be reflected in the reporting of the universal service provider. When proposed amendments are adopted, certain activities carried out by postal service providers will be excluded from the scope of the Public Procurement Act, given that they are not subject to public procurement in respect of postal service providers under the EU directives. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The amendments to the post office are necessary because, as you know, there have been significant changes in the business environment of the public company in recent years. The liberalisation of postal services and the functioning of the competitive market justify the fine-tuning of legislation under EU law. I think that a profitable company with a 150-year history of continuing billion-dollar development from its own resources should have the right operating conditions. The 1991 XXXIV on the organisation of gambling also responds to changed market conditions. amendment of the law. Due to an amendment proposal, Szerencségy Zrt. On 4 October, EuroJackpot will be able to launch the EuroJackpot game in Hungary, as the amendment will not make the conclusion of intergovernmental agreements a prerequisite for the start-up of the activity. The aim of the amendment of the Waste Act was to eliminate legal uncertainties, technical amendments and rationalisation. So far, the collection of school and kindergarten paper could only be carried out with an official licence, despite the fact that there has never been any disadvantage to public education institutions, there has been no official proceedings against them and we believe that it is necessary to resolve this issue. The proposed amendment also includes the need to adapt the rate of the landfill contribution so far as from 1 January 2015 to the capacity of the public service providers. This means that it should be determined at the 2014 level. The legislative preparations for market changes explain the intention to amend certain legislative provisions on the National Asset Manager. As a result of the change in the Insurance Act, companies providing an annuities are not entitled to grant an annuity in their own right as of January 2015, and such an activity is considered to be insurance, so it can only be performed by an insurance company. On this basis, it may be appropriate for the State to take over the companies carrying out an annuity activity or their real estate cover for the benefit of the customers receiving the retirement benefit. This requires the amendment of the Net Act or the inclusion of this objective among the specific objectives of the National Asset Manager. The package of legislative amendments is CXXVIII of 2012 on interbranch organisations and certain aspects of agricultural market regulation. It would also change the law. The National Council of Mountains has requested an extension of the market organisation measure in order to manage Italian wine imports, but its fulfilment is hindered by a regulation currently in place. The repeal should be implemented as soon as possible as the extended measure could already have a positive impact on the buying-in price of the grapes. The purpose of the amendment of the Law on certain arrangements for the rental of dwellings and premises and their disposal is to clarify the rules of the Housing Act concerning the purchase of dwellings by legal and natural persons abroad, according to which the competent metropolitan and county government office of the location of the property is required to permit the acquisition of the property. The proposal deals with the 2013 CCLII on amendments relating to the entry into force of the new civil code. Amendment of Act XI of'98 on Lawyers to amend laws and related laws and to amend certain legislation on agricultural and environmental matters. The proposal aims to postpone the obligation of lawyers to use a serialised safety signal with anti-counterfeiting protection elements, so that the lawyer's staff can be better prepared and that there is sufficient time to implement the necessary IT developments. The proposal contains an amendment to Annex II of 2004 on moving images. by law, it clarifies the definitions of Hungarian film producer and Hungarian film producer. It amends certain rules for direct and indirect grants to film producers and film producers in order to create as many Hungarian-language works as possible and to allow as many Hungarian film producers as possible to participate in both domestic and international productions. If the proposal is adopted by Parliament, it will be possible for domestic film production capacity to operate with the greatest possible utilisation. The amendment of the Media Services and Public Communications Act has also become timely. With this amendment, the procedures of the Media Council and the Media Authority can be simplified, the rules of procedure become clearer. The proposal ensures consistency with European Union law and the practice of the European Commission in the event of events of major importance to society and related official procedures. The main purpose of the amendment is also to establish a government decree on how individual media service providers can enforce the programme fee for the content offered. With the proposal, it will be possible for content providers, after all, not to have subscribers pay the additional costs, as this would add to the burden on households, which would not be fair. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The legislative amendments I have listed serve to harmonise legislation, eliminate legal uncertainties and incorporate experience, relevant professional and interest representation needs, and make the operation of the State more efficient. As the amendment of the media law shows, the final beneficiaries of the amendment of the law before you are Hungarian citizens and Hungarian businesses in all cases. With their interests in mind, these proposals have been made to amend the law, which is why I ask you with all due respect to their adoption. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-09-16-66	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speakers will be held within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. I give the floor to Pál Völner, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. As I said, Congressman, you have 15 minutes tops. Here you go. [[13.30]]
u2014-09-16-67	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us aims to make a comprehensive amendment to the law that seems small and insignificant at first sight, but is vital for the Hungarian economy. Without the need for completeness, the proposal includes the amendment of the Savings Cooperative Act to achieve cooperative integration; the amendment of the Waste Act to ensure that the legal situation around the collection of school paper is resolved; the amendment of the Corporate Tax Act to provide more money for the production of new domestic films; the amendment of the Eximbank Act to stimulate exports; and, not least, the amendment of the Agricultural Market Act in order to stop imports harmful to domestic wine production. The proposal proposes that the central budget should be submitted not by 15 October but only by 30 October of the election year, in order to provide the necessary time for appropriate professional preparation after the election. I think that this is a worthwhile technical amendment intention. In this connection, I would like to interpret the Fidesz faction's proposal to exclude from the Public Finance Act the passage that, within 30 days of the submission of the central budget, municipalities should also adopt their own budgetary concept. It is not realistic for the local assembly to have the necessary information already in November, and I would therefore like to give this intention to support the faction. On this issue, the group will make use of an amendment motion. In view of the fact that the proposal amends 23 laws in total, allow me to continue to talk about only a few of the laws to be amended and to let my fellow Members have the rest. I'd like to start by amending the Eximbank Act. XLII 1994 on the Hungarian Export-Import Bank Company and the Hungarian Export Credit Insurance Company. The amendment of the Act allows Eximbank and the Hungarian Export Credit Insurance Company to finance the investments made by customers. The amendment allows for a contract with a natural person from abroad. It also defines investment to improve international competitiveness, investment to improve international competitiveness and working capital needs to improve international competitiveness. 6 and 7. § matches a new 17. §8 of the Exim Act, according to which, in the case of the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board and the CEO, any conflict of interest with the role of party office will be eliminated. The aim is to ensure that the position in the party is not an obstacle to the appointment of otherwise qualified persons. In many cases, it was not possible to appoint persons with years of experience or outstanding theoretical knowledge, even though strategic goals and other circumstances would have justified the appointment of such persons. Article 8 § 3 amends the provisions of the Exim Act concerning customs secrecy, which aims to bring the relevant legislation into line with EU Community law. Community law shall authorise the issue of customs secrets to a third country in a customs declaration only if it is authorised by law by that State. Accordingly, this provision defines the data scope for which Eximbank and Mehib Zrt. access and the purpose and duration of data processing. These are the data of the self-employed, the data of the legal person and, for both, the aggregated data on the value of the export. It is also important to amend the law on the rental of apartments and premises. The proposal amends the housing law in such a way that it states that a foreign national or a company can obtain ownership of domestic property only if the competent metropolitan or county government office agrees. This also applies to buildings for diplomatic purposes, of course on the basis of international reciprocity. The proposal also introduces foreign legal entities and foreign natural persons into the housing law. The 98th anniversary of the 11th century on lawyers The amendment of law also includes a number of small, but important, security guarantees, in particular, in the Bar Association system. According to the amendment, in the future, the rules of the Law on Lawyers concerning the countersignal of a lawyer will be amended in such a way that the lawyer will have to place on the document signed by the lawyer a serialized security mark, a sticker, with anti-counterfeiting protection elements, which must be activated. The proposal also amends the date of entry into force of the renewed rules on custody from 1 January 2015 to 1 May 2015. It also lays down more detailed rules for the obligation to send accounting reports to the Chamber of Territorial Lawyers in order to enable lawyers to fulfil this obligation without any legal uncertainty. XX. of 2001 on the Hungarian Development Bank Company The amendment to the Act is justified by the fact that, under the relevant law, MFB Zrt. the rules governing the management of investment or venture capital funds owned by it and thus does not always affect the investment activity of the funds. This is why it is necessary to tighten the rules on the acquisition of an investment ticket and a venture capital fund ticket by MFB. The amended 9th. § 2 requires that the capital invested by the MFB in an investment fund or venture capital fund may not exceed 20% of the own funds or own funds. The 2012 CLIX on postal services. The amendment of the Act allows Magyar Posta to conclude a contract with the partner organisation. It is necessary to specify that the partner organisation, since the framework of its activities is fully determined by the universal service provider, is not subject to accounting separation requirements, and that the revenue associated with its activities under this Act should therefore be reflected in the reporting of the universal service provider. Dear House, I believe that the considerations set out above justify the necessity of this law, and I therefore ask that, despite the fact that the amendment really concerns a wide range of areas, support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-16-68	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr István Tukacs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2014-09-16-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We don't usually like salad law. In this House, we routinely growl at drafts which, like now, for example, plan to amend 23 laws without having any logical connection to them. We do not like it because we know that they can be used for other things than to correct laws. I would just like to remind you of the particularly tragic case when the Fidesz government lifted the Fiscal Council and then forgot that it had to replace its President, it did so in a health salad law. So the question is, then, what can a salad law be used for? For good cases, of course, when legislative harmonisation is required, a legislative correction is necessary, so it has a professional basis. It can also be used to deal with political affairs, lobbying and a thousand others. I mention this because the proposal to submit a budget is a bit of a smile at the first amendment right here. May I remind you that the relationship between your government, Madam Secretary of State, to submit the budget is at least diverse. Let us recall when you have argued for a thousand reasons why the number of corners of the budget should be adopted in the middle of the year. Didn't you, fellow Members? And from the government side, they could support why it is so urgent to adopt the budget early: because it is good for those who plan, for example, the municipalities, which my fellow Member Völner mentioned, and so on. [[13.40]] And it is very adventurous to have an affair with the Fidesz government to prepare the budget, even if we recall that they managed to create, for example, the state of the first submission of a budget and then the laws establishing the budget were submitted; which in itself is comical, since the foundation of the budget, such as the tax revenues, tax revenues, other revenue in the budget, will be regulated in the law establishing the budget by the relevant majority of the government, and so on... - of course, everyone can see that this kind of error was nothing more than the deep down of Parliament. I would just like to add quietly that this budgeting was characterised by the fact that, after the last sea of amendments tabled, no one in this House knew what the budget actually contained. Therefore, it must be clearly stated that the rejection of the budget has served nothing more than not to mention the budget lines during the municipal elections. Don't make me talk about the cuts that have marked the budgets that have already been submitted. Because while we perceive that there is a sea of money - I would routinely mention stadiums, let us not talk about Mr Matolcsy's small budget, the 200 billion, which would be worth a mass in itself - Hungarian higher education, education, public education, health care and social care systems have already been deeply eviscerated, and you want to avoid the debate on why there will be no money in these areas next year. Therefore, I think that only for this political skill alone must all reasonable forces in this Parliament say that we do not accept this salad law. We don't accept it, because if you were confined to professional matters, I think about waste management, for example, because there's something in it and something else, then it would be okay. However, this political debauchery by submitting a budget undermines the belief that it is actually a professional matter. Of course, I believe that there is a need to regulate Eximbank and Mehib, but I can no longer believe, my honourable fellow Member Völner, that the rule that senior officials should not be party officials should be lifted. Here the thing has gone so far as not to have the opportunity, on purpose, to have party interests in these bodies or positions of leadership. However, if you are technically irreplaceable, consider whether you are a party official or not, what is more important to you. I believe that this is once again the moment which significantly undermines the credibility of the submitted salad law in this draft, since, together with professional regulation, we should no longer be dealing with such matters under one smoke, such as: why not be a member of the Fidesz presidency, but, for example, I say, of course, senior officer in these bodies? The next item is the Hungarian Development Bank, in which I understand the rules on venture capital investments, of course, but not this limited gas trade. So if the Hungarian Development Bank has been good for a lot of things, and they think it's good for a lot of things, the only bank in the state that should deal with developments, I still think that it should not be endowed with such matters, even if it is a company, and even if it has a similar profile of this company. Not good, because then there will be ideas about what the Hungarian Development Bank can use for, and I would be very unhappy if, let's say, other activities were included in the profile of this bank or its companies. Let me discuss, ladies and gentlemen of the House, the rules on the post office and savings cooperatives, as well as their bank or their integration organisation. I think this because during the mid-term period of the Hungarian Post, when the state stole the savings cooperatives and the Savings Bank, it became the owner of the Savings Bank and thus provided an indirect state influence in this, then the State Secretary General Fónagy, who is not here, and I am very much in favour of him, argued that, but, well, this is a natural thing, since the network of Magyar Posta, the traditions of the savings cooperatives are compatible and, of course, it is a positive thing that this has happened. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me just remind you again that the downsizing of the savings banks and the Savings Bank was a nasty thing to do. Even his reasons were quite infantile, for he stole a whole network because of two, otherwise unproven, malfunctioning savings cooperatives. He nationalised a savings cooperative system and its bank, the Savings Bank. The uglier thing came after him, because he passed on this nationalized sector to good friends, who, of course, were midwives in the area of nationalization. It has not been mentioned very much lately, but I would also like to remind you that, while in this draft, it lies ahead of us that, for example, the savings cooperatives and the integration organisation can now shape their statutes among wider options, at the time when this state expansion took place, the members of the savings cooperatives there who could decide on a new statute had a piece of opportunity to vote in this respect: yes. Because they could neither vote nor change the rules before them. Therefore, the suspicion of what the regulation before us means is hidden in one's eyes. In some respects, the post office is exempted from the rules on public procurement. What does this mean about savings cooperatives? Especially when the possibility of outsourcing financial services and other matters arises. Therefore, the ugly history of the expansion of the savings cooperatives again undermines the professionalism of the draft before us, no matter how much I appreciate the opinion of the Secretary of State and the rapporteur of the Fidesz faction. And then all these little things that you're thinking about right now is letting the author relax on the rules of gambling management. I understand, of course, that this is also a question of harmonisation, but if we take it as a basis that has happened here in all casino cases, for example, that he did not have to pay VAT after the concession fee, and if he cannot start his casino, who owns it, then he does not have to pay money in the Hungarian budget, Minister Varga argues that it is because he is doing well, because then he can work better, and then it will be good for everyone, even for starving children, so I think that the sum of such cases is not too elegant. Just as it wasn't elegant to impose a 98 percent penalty tax on the various benefits, it happens to be not on severance pay. Now, there is a legal solution before us, of course, with this legal solution, otherwise we would have no problem with it, only why we had to play this flea circus with people who, for example, worked as teachers and got their severance pay fired and then realized that they would not have any money left. We will support it, if there is a special plan to ensure that Hungarian culture, in order to preserve the Hungarian language, is given good opportunities for creating values, as well as good opportunities for Hungarian acting and many others. But it also reminds me, when I look at this draft, who now holds the vast majority of the funding of the Hungarian film. Well, the casino owner's, if I remember correctly. So if we say nice things about what we want to achieve about the Hungarian film, then let's also do nice things on the other side in order to make it believable. [[13.50]] Of course, for all cases that may be justified in a professional sense, our answer is yes, but I think that the draft before us is unclear in many respects. I have read the explanation section several times, and I have often met with this "because only'justifications, or when the rapporteur himself justifies the presentation. Perhaps this could be done more clearly, more clearly and more transparently. I am now going back to the beginning: this is particularly true of the issue of budget preparation, I mean, if we take it seriously, House, that the birth of the country's central budget is not a question of political play. At some point in this House, when the Membership had a little more ethos - sorry, fellow Members, I do not think of anyone who is in the Chamber - then the mechanism for drawing up the budget was a matter for all Members, and it is a matter of common interest. It began early so that everyone had the opportunity to consult professionally on these issues, to assess the problems of their own constituency or environment, or to make suggestions, to consider, to seek the opinion of all those who were professionally competent. However, this kind of way of drawing up the budget has disappeared from the Hungarian Parliament and has not been found since. He disappeared, of course, also with the old Budget Council; the only reason I am going to mention the matter again is because it was not only tragic that the president was replaced in a salad law, but also how deeply they tried to remove the sovereign organization that had a professional opinion on the Hungarian budget. Well, I think that maybe we should play this field a little more straight, clearer, clearer. There would be nothing wrong with either the governing majority or the opposition, especially if there were clear debates about how the Hungarian central budget is being prepared, how our country is preparing public expenditures for the next period, what the circumstances of this and so on are. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we will not support this draft, we do not know, but nevertheless we have tabled amendments to its fundamental points, and we look forward to their fate. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-09-16-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-09-16-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Speaker László Kövér promised to normalise Parliament's work on the 2014 term as early as last November, i.e. to reduce the salad laws, which, among other things, combine opaque, non-compatible issues. It seems that this intention remains a written figure, and we are discussing again a draft of the type " alarm, raisins, gas mask ', which puts as far as possible into a proposal, the details of which are not, let alone with each other, but also in the most vague context of the title of the bill. The title of the bill amending individual laws in relation to budgetary planning and the more efficient provision of money market and utility services is absurd. Budget planning has nothing to do with the money market or utility services, except for the one moment that the government considers these sectors to be milk cows and has supplied them with various new taxes and fees. The majority of the legal amendments in the salad can be classified into one of the incomprehensible, unnecessary and arbitrary categories. For example, it is completely incomprehensible why the Act on Eximbank needs to be amended in such a way as to allow for a contract with a natural person abroad in respect of the supplier's transaction or why banks should be granted wholesale natural gas rights. It is clear that here the state-owned Hungarian Development Bank is editing the legal background to its own natural gas trading company, but the question remains a question: What is the point? The State has already purchased E.ON's wholesale gas business for multiple market prices, and also the State MVM is engaged in wholesale gas. What's the need for a third state actor here? Who does the State want to compete with when market players are forced out? With himself? If you believe in the market and the competition so much, why don't you just let it go? If you don't believe in it, why are you trying to reconstruct it in state colors that were destroyed before? And how much will this cost taxpayers and gas consumers? We have already had the opportunity to experience how state wholesale works. The typical player of this is the company MET, a subsidiary of MOL, from which only 55 billion profits were made in 2012 among the sports friends of Viktor Orbán and the owners of the offshore-lovagi circle. This MET deals with the fact that one of the state wholesalers, most of all MVM, bought gas cheaply on the external markets, sells it a little more expensively to district heating companies and pockets profits. Of course, the public company could also do business with the teleheroes, only then would it not be possible to wrap the multibillion-dollar private profit in private pockets. With the fact that the MFB will now be included among state wholesalers, the sector's transparency will be further reduced and the chances of similar constructions that harm the state and consumers will continue to increase. However, we have not heard any argument, and I fear that we will not, which would explain why it is necessary for public gas wholesalers to multiply by dividing. [[Adam Mirkóczki will be replaced in the notary seat by Dezső Believing.]] Clearly, redefining school paper collection is an unnecessary category, at least if we attach minimal credit to government claims so far. There was no problem with school collection until the government announced in May that this activity would be prohibited under the new waste law from January 2015 and that schools would rather collect used batteries or rags. In the then government resolution, it was also stated that it is far more advantageous to collect paper instead of schools by non-profit service providers. In August, the ban was confirmed in another communication, but now the Ministry concerned claims that no one ever wanted to ban the collection, the Orbán Cabinet, and in evidence that no school has been punished in recent months for collecting paper. The obvious government and regulatory chaos is now being addressed by a provision that allows schools to do so twice a year for a period of 5-5 days, which has not yet been prohibited. There is probably no more eloquent example of how the law factory in Orbán solves its own problems. Then, for example, there is the arbitrary amendment of the media law from scratch, without any prior consultation and without consulting industry players, which would not allow the two major commercial TVs - RTL, TV2 - to ask for money for their broadcast from 2015. The government may consider the ban on paying business models to be an extremely popular, populist step for RTL Club and TV2. In fact, this can cause damage to the Hungarian television market which is difficult to remedy and can indirectly lead to redundancies in the Hungarian media. Less than a quarter of the currently available hundred channels are announced in Hungary, which is not a coincidence. In many EU countries, such as Britain, the Czech Republic, there is no or little need to pay broadcasting fees. [[14.00]] But here, in order to get the name of the channel up to an Excel board, because there is no other service for it, from smaller televisions to 40-50 million a year, from larger televisions to more than 100 million per year, the media authority asks for it, while the government tells them how much money they can charge for their broadcasts. Therefore, we would not be surprised if the remaining commercial channels, which were registered in Hungary, were thought about such a step and instead moved abroad. Although we know of a channel that would welcome the government's move abroad. Maybe that's the point. The policy that is formulated in the salad law goes against the previous government objective of a common good, which was to attract as many media service providers as possible to the country. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-09-16-72	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik. Congressman, you have 15 minutes. Here you go.
u2014-09-16-73	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, There's another salad law ahead of us. We do not like salad laws, and not because we are squeamish, but because they are trying to unite so many areas and they are trying to regulate an area that is not related to each other, which is difficult to follow professionally, either to the ministry or to the minister or secretary of state present here in the parliamentary debate. And you can hide things in there that might not be mentioned in the parliamentary debate, because, let's say, you didn't spot anyone, or maybe you didn't think any of the factions were important to mention, but that doesn't mean you stay in it and cause serious damage. So that's what we see in this salad law. I would go in line and highlight some of the main points of concern that we believe should not have been adopted in this way, not in this form, or, where appropriate, should not have been accepted or brought into this House at all. Firstly, I would like to mention the regulation on Export-Import Bank. It is quite clear that when we talk about an important economic function, the existing conflict of interest rules were not created by accident. Moreover, in the general statement of reasons, the legislator, more specifically, mentions that the board of directors and supervisory board member and, in the case of the CEO, conflict of interest rules on party administration will be mitigated. Unfortunately, if we're reading this, it's always come to mind who the Fidesz-KDNP majority is tailoring it to. I might as well say who this lex is going to be. Then it always turns out that after expressing the great protests and counter-opinions, I mean from the government side, a man will certainly appear, people will appear who are party officers, and then they could be placed in an important state position. There have been countless examples of this in the past four years. This process seems to continue. But if that wasn't enough, they would loosen the rules even for the qualification criteria. They state in the explanatory statement that there is no reason to lay down such strict rules of qualification. It's not a coincidence, I think it's been in the law so far. If this were not enough, so a relaxation of the rules would not be enough in general, an additional allowance will be added that the minister may also deviate from it, and not only 12 months will not be required for professional driving practice, but enough 18 months of other management practices. I think, let's say, in the case of a CEO, in such an important position, the Minister should not be given the possibility of a derogation. That is why there are laws to ensure that they are respected by everyone, and that is also true of the Minister. This is not a good direction. Of course, you can try to explain that, but not with success. Then, in the case of public procurement regulations, I was a little insecure when I read about the direction in which this would change the media market and the allocation of public funds. The fact that the performance of government communication tasks can be operational in the future under a centralised procedure, or that they can be allocated under such a procedure, is not yet exactly seen. The present representative of the government may be able to answer that there may be another chapter of the Simicska-Orbán war that does not exist, and may be another advertiser entering the market and being added to the list. Or maybe there are other reasons for this regulation. Here, too, the practice will show what you in the witch kitchens have planned in the background, but for now, we look forward to the next step with interest. In amending the Public Finance Act, the extension of the deadline for submitting the budget by 15 days in the year of the election may even be an explanation. Since the municipal election will now take place on 12 October, if the budget is submitted by the end of October, this will be acceptable to Parliament. However, it may arise that there was a year when this was presented in the spring. This is, of course, not in line with this, but in itself it is not the biggest problem of the law. However, to move to a very problematic area: postal services. The creation of EU coherence issues and compliance with EU legislation are, of course, nice and good, but there are more and bigger problems in the proposal. This is about it, and let us really put aside what the European Union expects and must be included in the Hungarian legislation, perhaps my fellow Member Völner said that there is a part that the European Union does not expect, but we are still installing it, and that is the outsourcing of postal services. The point is that Magyar Posta, as a universal service provider, can in any case manage to outsource, or privatise, the functions of collection, processing, delivery and delivery by 2020. It's issued to private service providers who will be able to do this. Now, this is where the problems begin, why this is necessary. Is this necessary because the Hungarian Post can't carry out its task? If that's it, write this down. But that's not what I think it's about. What's going on is they're trying to let buddy companies near the meat pot, they're trying to organize these services. Obviously, these companies will not provide them at a loss, they will not give them a price for these services that will cause them to lose. Obviously, these companies will be able to make a profit. Now, if they can make a profit, it is either that this is also working with profit at the Hungarian Post right now, or, if it does not work with profit, it will have to spend much more money on it after outsourcing, so taxpayers will also suffer. After all, the Hungarian Post, as I understand it, must also be supported by tax-paying forints. That is exactly what the European Union is talking about, the amount and the way in which a universal service provider can be granted State aid. And in addition, if that were not enough, the law basically states that these companies carry out the outsourced services on their own behalf, of course, there may be exceptions in some cases, but they are basically carried out under their own name, and this activity should theoretically appear at a similar level. But it will not appear to the people with the logo of Magyar Posta in most cases. By the way, the general explanation is so nicely formulated that people can easily slip over the essence, it is said that the bill outlines the possibility of applying the new operating structure of Magyar Posta's strategy. So, do you understand? This is a new structure that, just as the bus services at the BKV were outsourced, the property elements are sold, so we will now take this direction at the Hungarian Post Office. Of course, in the spirit that the government on all fronts shouts that the government is not carrying out privatisation, and even wants to recover the previously privatised public services in the field of public services. [[14.10]] Now, what we're seeing here is completely against this. And I do not know what the reason for this is, and unfortunately I suspect so, but we would expect an open and honest answer from the representative of the Hungarian government. And here I would like to draw attention to another danger in this regard. Because if we start to outsource, privatize - we use the word privatization, because that is what we are talking about, when we outsource an activity, we give it to private players, and they will also provide it with profits, certainly more expensive than we now call it privatization - that is why we are starting to destroy the Hungarian Post and the government is preparing for what will happen in 2020 if another universal service provider is to be designated. 'Cause what if these outsourcings go to a level that's going to affect a key field of activity in the post office? Why not, since the collection, processing, transport and delivery of shipments are a key task of the mail. The 2020 is coming, these areas have been outsourced 60 percent already, so how easy it will be to say that Magyar Posta is not actually performing the task it did a few years ago, or is doing it by installing private companies - this could be a few companies, so it doesn't have to be issued to many partners - and then it can be said that if these companies already provide more than 50 percent of the universal postal service, then why we don't give them the whole universal postal service. Why don't we do that? And then it will obviously be difficult to say, because on paper it will be very nice to show how bad the mail works, and how well these companies perform their activities. I am afraid, and in these cases it has always been true that we have been right, that Satanic logic is acting in the direction that Magyar Posta will be crushed, and in the medium term, there is no sure foundation on which we can say that it will work. Not to mention - now that the government, as I said, has always rejected privatisation - what will happen to the workers who are doing these activities at the moment. What about those who deliver, what about those who perform these functions at the Hungarian Post right now? I'll tell you what, they'll probably be dismissed. Or, better than that, they'll be employed by companies that take over these tasks. That's exactly what's happening at the BKV right now. Let us put our eyes on Budapest, because they seem to be ahead of the government in Budapest in liberalism and privatisation. There, too, they promised that there would be no privatisation, that the flights would be also outsourced, and that the operation of these flights would also be more expensive. Of course, it can be said that some new buses have been put into service, but the lease fee for buses is indirectly paid by taxpayers, since the outsourced companies have bought and validated these on credit to the capital, but directly to the BKV, BKK and then to the capital for which they operate and pay these loans. It is very good that there are new buses, but these will be owned by private service companies in a few years, while in fact the fees are paid by Hungarian taxpayers. We don't want to see that at the post office. It is bad enough that this practice was introduced in the capital of István Tarlós. And look at how interesting it is that not so long ago, the sale or exploitation of bus garages was also announced, because if there are no bus routes or they are outsourced to private contractors, then bus garages are no longer needed. That's a very good way to show it. These processes ring nicely, and will only remain in the hands of the capital or the state, which is loss-making, which is paying for it, and everything that is slightly profitable or adequately available to the buddy companies will be released and released. This is the process you're trying to prevent from doing the Jobbik. It is indeed the most eloquent thing that Paul Völner has said that we are not obliged to do so by the European Union. We are not obliged to have the universal service provider, the Hungarian Post, open certain business areas or to outsource certain activities. If we're not bound, then why are we doing it again? Or give an honest answer, if you know what the reason for this is, or if you do not do so, then obviously we have to assume that what I have said here is real and that the long-term goal is to destroy Magyar Posta through privatisation and outsourcing. That's the only reason we can't accept the salad bill. Of course, there is much more to talk about, and I have tried to highlight the most important areas. There are still some speeches to be made on the part of Jobbik. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-09-16-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, According to the decision-making rules, the first independent Member to apply may now speak in 15 minutes. On this basis, I give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsa Szelényi. You have 15 minutes, as I said, tops, Congresswoman. Here you go.
u2014-09-16-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman of the government! János Lázár presented an interesting, legislatively alarming text on behalf of the government a few days ago. It seems that some of the people who are sitting here have seen it, but I wonder what the Speaker of the House, worthy of the dignity and legislative responsibility of the Parliament, said when he met with this proposal. How could you even allow this incredible nonsense to come before Parliament? The 60-page amendment of certain laws before us and the rest of them, consisting of more than 110 paragraphs, would amend some 23 laws. Laws such as laws on credit institutions, the organisation of gambling, the post office, waste, rent of apartments and premises, electronic communications, gas supply, and very important laws in themselves. These things have nothing to do with each other. I would like to amend these in a package, in an extraordinary procedure. We are ashamed of this way of legislation. This Parliament acts as a parliament of a banana republic if it is willing to acknowledge that this fabric is being pushed through by the government under such a static procedure. Dear fellow Members, Parliament, if anyone remembers this, is a responsible, sovereign legislative body representing voters. You can throw back the bill, vote off it, say no in the spirit of human dignity and decency. Antal Rogán said in connection with the foreign exchange-credit proposal that the world of fine-letter texts in Hungary is over. What is this, if not Hungary of the fine print text? Let us look at some of the amazing things contained in the proposal. First of all, a cardinal point in the proposal, which would postpone the deadline for the submission of the Budget Act by 31 October. Is it clear that the government is not able to complete the budget for time this year? Or it may be that during the municipal campaign, it would be uncomfortable to come up with the new austerity measures to address imbalances. Or maybe during the municipal election he wants to hide the state of the economy in Hungary. The government doesn't want to tell us how much it spends on health care, public education, whether it continues to withdraw funds from higher education, whether the Hungarian people's slippage continues at all. He doesn't want to tell us how he's gonna keep the 3-percent budget deficit and how he's gonna cut the government debt. That's what the budget bill is about to be postponed. That's what the government wants to make invisible during the municipal campaign. This is a very serious problem, since pursuant to Article 36 of the Fundamental Law, the Parliament legislates on the budget. Not the government, the Parliament. The Parliament does not accept or take note of the government's budget, but our constitutional right is to establish the budget. [[14.20]] It is absurd in this proposal to continue. One of these, which has already been discussed by several people, but it is probably one of the biggest filths that Hungarian Export-Import Bank and the Hungarian Export Credit Insurance Authority can now have party officials in the management of the Hungarian Export-Import Bank. Where are your sensitive tastes of conflict of interest, dear representatives of the government? The government no longer seems to be taking action against a harmful merger between business and the political sphere, a captured state that directs public money towards private pockets. This bill openly breaks with regulatory practice that harmonises with the Basic Law and is very consistent. Article XXIII of the Fundamental Law According to Article 4 (8) of the Treaty, party functions are incompatible with a certain public mandate requiring political neutrality, and the management of state-owned financial institutions is clearly included in this category. It's an unconstitutional proposal. The attempt to serve the party interests of the leaders of public financial institutions raises very serious concerns about the responsible use of public funds and raises serious suspicions of open corruption. This proposal unwarrantedly disrupts previous uniform rules. Of course, the question arises as to which particular party person the proposer intends to put in this position. Obviously, this practice is unacceptable. A third point of the scheme extends the possibility for televisions to transfer part of their increased burden due to advertising tax to cable operators. It is quite obvious that this goal is intended to maintain the press's vulnerability, not regardless of the latest developments in the pro-government oligarchal war. We don't know who's gonna come out of this, but it's definitely not gonna be the people. Either sooner or later, everything will be more expensive, or there will simply be no proper taxes, because everything has a price. There's a price on the news, there's a price for entertainment, there's a price for orientation. This proposal aims at a clear reduction of freedom of information. The whole submitted fabrication, as it is, is completely unacceptable. I ask the representative of the government to try to submit normal European legislative proposals, until then, unfortunately, there is nothing to do with this. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-16-76	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. Congresswoman Anita Heringes asked to speak for two minutes, MSZP. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2014-09-16-77	Thank you very much for the floor. In recent months, we have repeatedly signalled to you where the poorly functioning waste management system is causing serious damage to municipal authorities, to the population that is paying more and more for the service, and to students who are excluded from school paper collection, and to waste companies themselves. However, we see that, although several times their State Secretarys and ministers have expressed several opinions... - there were people who told us not to destroy the waste management system by allowing school paper collection. Some said, Zoltán Illés, that children should rather collect rags and batteries at school, even though we know that the element is dangerous waste, the accumulation of which may not be lucky in the school area. As we can see in the amendment, it is just now changing the part about how acidic lead batteries will be used, as this cannot be done in Hungary. So it is interesting that Zoltán Elijah encouraged young people to do so in schools. Yet there is some joy in this amendment of the law, as we have repeatedly called your attention to the fact that collecting school paper is a very, very good tool for educating children. I am therefore pleased to note that the amendments that have been asked for have now been made, since we have tabled an amendment to the Waste Act on my behalf, which we have asked you to discuss. So we're happy to put it on the agenda on the committee tomorrow, where I'm sure my amendment will be rejected, but I'm glad to see you've been included in the legislative amendments. There is only one thing I would like to say about waste management. Due to the reduction of the costs, companies are still unable to pay the landfill contribution, so freezing at 2014 level is definitely not the solution. Thank you.
u2014-09-16-78	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. I would like to remind you that you have 15-15 minutes. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. First up, Congressman Dénes Pigeon, Fidesz. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2014-09-16-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, In his speech, Pál Völner indicated that 23 laws were being amended by the proposal before us, and several people spoke about why 23 laws were summarized and what the solution was. I think that the salad laws are generally not fortunate, but I say that there is no other option for us in terms of legal technicality and timeliness, and I think that, in the case of rules which are coherent in themselves, it must therefore always be examined whether there is coherence within that law, not in the whole of the 23 laws. Obviously, it has not been raised by fellow Members, but I think that it is not a devil's thing to use this legal solution in certain cases. What I would like to say now is two sub-areas and two pieces of legislation, very important areas. The second is a really topical question concerning the wine sector, and the first is about moving pictures and film. The 2004 II on moving images The purpose of the amendment of the Act is the new Communication on Film Arts published by the European Commission in November 2013 on State aid for films and other audiovisual works and the transposition of its provisions into the Hungarian Film Support Programme and the Film Law providing for its legal framework. To this end, a provision on ownership would be deleted from the definition of the Hungarian film producer and the Hungarian film production company, and the law would only link the definition of the concept to the Hungarian headquarters. These amending provisions provide for more favourable rules for film producers if the maximum aid intensity is increased to 100 per cent for films produced in Hungarian and for low-budget films. This will be a significant help for producers who face major difficulties in raising their own share of support, such as in the case of higher-budget films. In other words, it will be possible, where justified, to ensure the full amount of the budget of a given filmmaking. LXXXI of 1996 on corporation tax and dividend tax. In addition, according to the amendment of the Act, the level of indirect support for film production increases to 25 per cent of the Hungarian film production budget, which, with a few exceptions, is or should be applied to pending applications submitted to the Motion Picture Authority after 25 June 2014. Hungary has raised indirect support for film production from 20 to 25 percent so far. This means that every HUF 100 spent in Hungary will be returned to the film producer for HUF 25. Based on the experience of recent years, interest in Hungarian film production opportunities, locations, professionals, filmmakers, corporate studios has increased significantly, and Hungary is currently the most attractive shooting destination in the region. This position is strengthened by the introduction of 25 percent indirect support, with which the activity of film production in Hungary can be sustained and even stimulated, and the increase in the spending of film works here contributes to a further increase in the tax revenue associated with film production. According to industrial calculations, 36 percent of all funds spent on film production in Hungary increase the revenue of the budget. My second topic concerns the wine sector, and this is the 2012 CXXVIII on interbranch organisations and certain aspects of agricultural market regulation. the background and significance of the amendment of the law. As the Secretary of State said, statistics show that 500 to 600 thousand hectolitres of wine from Italy arrive in Hungary every year, largely as an unrealistically low-priced river wine. Imports up to 20 per cent of domestic wine production disturb the market and threaten to reduce the prices of grapes in the Kunság wine region. A number of measures have been taken to halt this process. [[14.30]] In June, the Ministry of Agriculture involved the National Council of Mountains, recognised as an interbranch organisation in the wine sector, in this field and a more organised and coordinated activity began in this area. With the current amendment of the agricultural market law, obstacles to the introduction of a price-refundable ticket for frequently dumped and low-quality imported wines can be removed. The changes could close the loopholes with which importers would have cheated the control ticket system, but the measure also increases the chances of detection of VAT fraud in the wine market. It is planned that the tickets to 30 forints per litre should be redeemed after 15 October, but the National Council of Mountains also provides HUF 22 forints of development aid to those members who make table wine exclusively from Hungarian grapes without a geographical indication, so this is a serious support and assistance, and it is currently affecting farmers in the harvest brigade and, of course, winemakers. I thought it was important to say all of this, even because of the impulses we are giving in the coming weeks to help the actors in the wine sector access to the market. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the above, please support the bill. Thank you for listening.
u2014-09-16-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now for Congressman János Volner, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-09-16-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that not only do we not love these salad laws, but no opposition Member likes them, because the government regularly distributes them by combining different, non-linked, completely different bill proposals in a single package, after which, when a opposition party says that I do not support them, but, say, vote no or abstain, I would support parts of them if I could vote separately, then the government would regularly use the dirty trick afterwards to start talking about how the opposition didn't support them when it had the opportunity to vote, but they voted against them or didn't support them, so they abstained. In this case, too, we are talking about a number of laws, various laws being amended within a single proposal, we do not have the opportunity to name certain parts of the law separately, and we are saying that we support them, not others, we will vote on them together at the end; and the government will - we can be sure now - abuse this situation and say that Jobbik or another opposition party did not support this forward-looking initiative. What's this all about? Right here in the first part of the bill, the bill provides for certain rules on the rental of apartments and premises and their disposal, and this bill also regulates, among other things, that a foreign person may or may not obtain land with the permission of the government office, and that alone was the question that Jobbik had shown a very strong opposition last year to the government side in the debate of the land law, when we said that it could not be that we were selling land to foreigners in Hungary, because then the land for which our ancestors fought for centuries was spilling their own blood to preserve this land, without fighting, will be transferred to the property of a significant part of foreigners in a short period of time. This is a question that we will never go without saying, because as a national party, we cannot afford it with a noble simplicity, listening to our conscience. And to think that this country has been standing here in the middle of Europe for over a thousand years, against much stronger military powers than Hungary, this land has been protected by our ancestors, and we are now saying that since we are members of the European Union, we are ready to allow this land to be alienated to foreigners. And under a government that defines itself as a Christian-national government, Fidesz and KDNP work together in coalition to achieve this step of treason. Obviously, we will not support this. Foreigners must not acquire Hungarian agricultural land, because otherwise, what will happen is that capitalised foreign buyers buy it out, take this country out from under us, and those vases who help them very often with political support are willing to cooperate to complete this process. Obviously, we're not gonna let that happen. I would also like to say that when the law on Eximbank is amended by the government, there will be steps that are very difficult to agree with, because so far the law has abolished the possibility for a party official to take the lead at Eximbank. Now - obviously not without an ulterior motive: we will soon see the people who come into these positions as political candidates - the law provides that these restrictions will be softened, and unfortunately, I am afraid that, like the last four years, we will be witnessing the government putting its own people, its own minions, into professional positions seeking independence. Here I would remind you of the endless series of events, such as the appointment of the chief prosecutor from the former Fidesz member, when only Fidesz was able to mark the members of the Media Council, and only fidesz delegates sat in the Constitutional Court, exclusive fidesz delegates sat in the various positions of the Hungarian National Bank; there was very little discussion about this, the government alone was able to implant its own potentates in positions that would otherwise require independence - and this independence is respected not only in Europe, but in the developed world. And what we can see now is that Eximbank is going to be another bastion of Fidesz, some of the people appointed by politics will be included in these positions. Obviously, this cannot be agreed. There is another very important point to be drawn when we are talking about Eximbank and we are looking at the different priorities for economic development. For obvious, not only political reasons, the government is primarily trying to promote export growth, although, given the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the economic policy toolkit, it may be more appropriate to support domestic production of imported products or domestic production of imported substitute products in most sectors rather than trying to gain space on the external market. What is the context behind this logic I have described and outlined? In our own market, where the legal environment is determined by the Hungarian Parliament, we can fight foreign companies more effectively and win chances, so if we spend money primarily on keeping our own market, so that Hungarian production capacities do not disappear permanently, we will use our resources more cost-effectively than if we try to break into one of the Western European markets with protectionist tools with very serious export subsidies. It is not in the government's interest to communicate more spectacularly with the exporting companies, which are not related to Hungarian economic operators, but primarily to the foreign companies established here; let us consider, for example, the acquisition of Audi, Mercedes. We are currently supporting the German luxury industry with the Hungarian taxpayers' money, because these production plants produce spectacular GDP growth, not by Hungarian economic operators, they do not employ more people - it is clear from the closing of last year's budget - but rather that it is good for the government to communicate this, and therefore economic development priorities do not act towards rationality, not by using taxpayers' money as efficiently as possible, but by following the way in which government communication is better supported by money. This is clear that it is a proposal contrary to national interest to cement the power structure of Fidesz. [[14.40]] When the law on public procurement is to be amended at point 12 of the bill, there is nothing more to be said than to change the regulation in public procurement in relation to the performance of government communication tasks in such a way that a centralised procedure must be applied. In other words, in the case of a pre-qualified range of candidates, the applicant himself can choose the company with which he will be contracted in the future without a competitive process. Ladies and gentlemen, let's think about it. They're classified as a circle, it's in this circle, say, seven or eight companies, it's in, say, one or two pro-government companies - what's a man gonna do, sitting in a position as a party? There's a very good chance, like the previous practice, that you're legally holding that company! - ordering whomever you want, an entrepreneur close to him, also in his party. This option is excluded by advanced democracies, ladies and gentlemen. Transparency and the enforcement of competition processes are one of the most important economic policy criteria. And consider that when the Hungarian state, as the largest customer of the Hungarian economy, spent about HUF 1600 billion a year in the domestic public procurement system, most of this money is spent without substantial competition, but within the framework of similar centralised and other procedures, protectionist distribution of funds to companies close to the policy to which it belongs. This is what separates an advanced democracy and a banana republic. And I respectfully ask the government side not to abuse the two-thirds parliamentary mandate. I know that with such proposals as those just tabled, it is possible to legitimise the dispersal of the country, but this means that Hungary will not be an advanced democracy, but a third-world banana republic, because the majority of the legislators are acting in the same way, it will create laws that will result in this. And it's a shame for the whole country. Even if you were elected by the people and gave the Fidesz-KDNP coalition a two-thirds parliamentary mandate. We also cannot agree that, by amending the Postal Services Act, the government will give way in practically before the liberalisation of postal activity. We are aware, of course, that there is an EU pressure on the government to liberalise this activity, to open up its own market and, of course, to say that there is no competitive advantage for an existing postal service with a national branch network. It is obvious that this monopoly - because it is a quasi monopoly that has developed in this area - is extremely difficult to break, but parts of it, as has been the case before, can be outsourced. And I am afraid that with this step, which we see outlined here, we will plant the initial germ of some of the most profitable parts of the Hungarian Post that will be outsourced later on and be able to function for the benefit of private interests. And in order to prevent this - not because we are anti-capital, but because we are protecting Hungarian national interests - Jobbik cannot support this part of the proposal, with a noble simplicity, because we want to keep this sector in community ownership. I also consider it very important to clarify what sectors, which economic sectors the government would like to gain ground in. I believe that, before a government cycle, even in the election campaign, it would be very important to define, for the sake of predictable economic policy, the sectors in which the government would like to penetrate what kind of instruments and frameworks it would like to apply in these sectors. However, even after four and a half years of Fidesz governance, this was not possible, or at least not done by the government. Now we can only speculate what will become of him that he wants to divorce - for example, the government wants to privatize postal services? They don't say it openly, but they're preparing it in the bill. They also do not openly say that media empires may want to be rearranged according to their own authority interests, but this ambition has already been published in the laws. If economic policy and social policy are not predictable, the country as a whole suffers from the fact that no one likes to invest in a country with an uncertain atmosphere, investment is not coming, investments that are of high national importance will not be made that could lead to a lasting welfare turn in the country. This salad law, which has been put forward in this way, at several points, unfortunately strengthens this government effort in the areas described above, creates uncertainty and serves the power interests of Fidesz. So, on the whole, Jobbik doesn't support it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-16-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. We now have Congressman Attila Szabolcs, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-09-16-83	Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, As my fellow Members have mentioned, the bill we are discussing now clarifies a number of important legislation. Allow me to say a few words on the legal background of the amendment of the Waste Management Act and the collection of school paper in this context, in the spirit of environmental awareness. The 2012 CLXXXV on waste. The amendment to Act 1 is justified by the clarification of the rules on collection and storage of waste, landfilling and by-products. In order to ensure uniform interpretation and application of the rules on collection, storage and by-product, the relevant provisions of the law should be made flexible. This can be achieved if the definition of collector is clarified, storage is distinguished from long-term storage and storage is defined separately, and rules on by-product are simplified and delegated to government regulation level. As far as collection is concerned, as from 1 January 2015, waste glass, paper, metal and plastic produced by the population in Hungary should be collected selectively in all municipalities. These objectives can be achieved primarily in Hungary through a constantly expanding house-to-house system, as well as through the establishment of waste collection islands and waste collection courtyards. The legal possibility of collecting school paper is also created by the amendment of the law. With the change, a legal anomaly of 14 years has been resolved, since the collection of school and kindergarten paper has so far been subject to a general rule, i.e. an official licence. However, during the 14 years, no government, including the Orbán government, has prevented the collection of school paper. Schools have never been disadvantaged in any way, nor have they been prosecuted by the authorities. Under the amendment of the Waste Act, institutions may collect paper twice a year for up to five days. They can then independently decide to re-sell it, from which they can obtain their own income. The government, including the Ministry of Agriculture, is committed to an environmentally friendly approach in which the collection of school paper is irreplaceable. The legal situation was needed to ensure that schools and kindergartens could continue this activity in a legally sound and orderly manner. This is also important because Hungary has to comply with very strict EU standards for waste collection, setting increasing recovery rates. In order to allow landfilling in Hungary to be an alternative to waste recovery within a relatively short period of time, while at the same time the strength of businesses should not be reduced by the amount of the waste disposal levy currently applicable, the amount of the landfill levy should be determined according to the domestic economic conditions and the current development of waste management. [[14.50]] Thus, the second amendment to the Waste Act freezes the amount of the waste disposal allowance at 2014 level. This represents HUF 6,000 per tonne and affects operators of significant public dumps. An amendment allowing an entity's collection and storage permits not to expire on 31 December 2014, but to use them within the original period of validity, constitutes a significant financial and administrative relief for an entity. Dear fellow Members, Now allow me, as an active mayor, to stand in favour of an amendment on behalf of the faction and myself. The Public Finance Act currently requires the municipalities to submit a budget concept, subject to the submission of the central budget. We mean intent, ensuring the conditions for safe planning, but we believe that this provision is not adapted to reality, so it is an unnecessary bump on the back of the municipalities. At such an early time, local authorities cannot predict how much money they can manage next year, since even the central budget is not accepted. In addition, various reports must be prepared and submitted by law during this period. The concept will therefore necessarily be general, without any concrete content, so I also support taking this pass out of the Public Finance Act. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-09-16-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member László Szakács, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-09-16-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We really haven't met a Member who wanted the salad laws, of course we haven't, because it has been said before that there are some things in which we can support, but of course we can't support the whole thing. I believe that what we have just seen here, and I have heard several times that harmonisation, correction, improvement of laws; I have not found one of these in this, and in the debate - I think - that perhaps there is none. However, Mr Secretary of State is in a difficult situation when everything needs to be protected from gas trading to Hungarian film through culture, from Eximbank to Mehib, Post, paper collection, broadcasting and to the conflict of interests of officials. I think there is only one reason for this: in this rainy summer, we can train precisely the changes in the central force field in this salad law. She's beautifully photographed. What I would like to highlight from this, in addition to the other momentary lobbying interests, particular interests that you now serve with this salad law, is the MFB. Some people have already yelled that the MFB could sell pickles now, but why the MFB will start dealing with gas, and as we heard in the expoze, what will make Hungary's energy supply more secure, when a mini MVM will be created next to its own, also owned by the state, as a competitor of MVM, as well as its own, I think that this can be considered no different than a beautiful picture of the changes in the central force over a summer, and the law will certainly try to follow it. This further internal diversification, which actually means creating another organisation that deals with it, means that the government can, of course, be given money and capital in two ways now, when it comes to gas trading and can earn income from both sides. This clearly serves individual political interests or certain partial political interests. Who's gonna own that other dump again, or who's gonna be the rooster on that hill that's gonna scratch this hill? I'll tell you the truth, there's nothing else you can see in this. What you can see, however, is how you now treat the MNB, the MFB, as a faith trust, because the MNB now has a portfolio that neither the law allows nor has ever been, nor has it been, anywhere else in Europe. As a reminder, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank now maintains a real estate portfolio, deals with historic protection and spends about 200 billion on economics education; it must always be said in favour, which is one and a half times the total budget support spent on higher education in Hungary. And now the MFB is gonna sell gas. So the Hungarian Development Bank will sell gas. I didn't like the explanation in the expo, so I'd like to draw attention to it. The fact that the MFB is already involved in trade in a neighbouring country or even more, and may be involved in public utility services, does not mean that they will not do this in Hungary. In Hungary, they will do stock exchange trading and wholesale. This is what you make your own little MFB instead of dealing with what - I think - will soon be more interested, especially in the light of the evolution of the eastern situation, that we are slowly here in mid-September, why the gas reservoirs are not yet charged. This should be addressed rather than serving the partial interests that these very, very unorthodox behaviours and unorthodox solutions represent. I'm not gonna tell you how dangerous this is for basic activity. I am sure that, at the expense of the core activity, every bank, including the MFB, will not be able to engage in any other business activity. This business obviously has a risk. Where was that risk priced? Where is this going to appear in the budget? And can the Hungarian Development Bank afford this? The rest of the talk before me, I think you've spoken nicely and for a long time, what's in this law, is, I continue to say, a lot of momentary lobbying interests that summer has brought together. What we see, what is not in it, is harmonisation, which is not in it, is a legislative correction; it is not a correction if we ease conflict of interest rules in order to appoint party functionaries to Exim. What is not yet said is that higher education, which we spent more on in 2009, which is not yet mentioned, is the healthcare that has a tremendously humiliating lack of resources, and that is, let's say, the social system that is now interfering in 56 percent of life in Hungary. This figure only shows that in Hungary more than half of the number of living situations in which this huge system, which we call the social care system, must be interfered because the others, because they are neglected, Mr Secretary of State, cannot be dealt with properly. To sum up my saying, I would like to say that once again we are sewing a coat for the button; we have these interests that we have, I believe that these interests and disputes of interest should be kept on your side, not raised to the level of government to bring them before the law-making process and serve them. Therefore, I can say with great certainty that the Hungarian Socialist Party will not be able to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-09-16-86	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There are now two-minute speeches. Congressman László Kiss asked for the floor, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-09-16-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I'd just like to take a quick look at the Eximbank case. [[15.00]] I think that my fellow opposition Members cannot talk enough about this issue. This law, which is in front of us, often raises the question of who is behind it, who is the subject of the rules. I apologize for the lack of confidence in you earlier, but there may be a dozen examples of you making a law like this. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] They allow party officials or party members to be executive officials of Eximbank, softening up this rule. We don't know why, what's the reason, who's the reason. In addition, the rules on qualifications are amended. These are questions, of course, which, if we hadn't already witnessed the first shift of a similar caliber amendment through the House, and then one of the fidesz cadres who took these positions would appear, obviously no one would be so suspicious. But we know very well, just remember what happened a few weeks ago, amend the qualification requirements for higher education leaders in the Higher Education Act, they are simplified, and then suddenly there is an application for the College of Physical Education, which becomes independent, leader. These are things that cannot be passed without a word, so I would like to ask you that such legislation should not be part of the system. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-16-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. Congressman László Kiss again? Please order repeated comments.
u2014-09-16-89	I'm sorry, I just thought [[András Tállai: Are you talking to yourself?]] earlier, that this will be a lively debate at the end, but, of course, I will not fill 15 minutes, I will reassure everyone. What I've been told is very important about the fate of the salad laws. You know, it's a situation where when you have elements in a salad that you like, there's elements in it that you don't like, the end of it is that you don't eat them. There are definitely parts of this law that I think are good. In response to the amendment tabled by my fellow Member, Anita Heringes, it is important that you raise the issue of collecting school paper, for example. I think it was a very good initiative for the Socialist Member, and it is wise of you to put it back, thank you very much. As a teacher and former school teacher, I know what these movements can mean in the life of a school, and I know that these can be important campaigns in education for healthy lifestyles and education for environmentally conscious life. Therefore, although this may seem to be a very small matter, I believe that we have made a step forward in this small matter, and that you have listened to us in this regard, so I should like to thank you, too. Similarly, if you look at what I would eat in this salad, if you would allow me to take this professional approach, I would say that, for example, the law on lawyers, which, in my reading, is in many cases protecting customers and helping to create the public, is a sympathetic regulation for me. If we had a separate bill before us, I would certainly vote in favour of these, because I think that this is a good step in the right direction. However, this simply shows how bad a form or method of lawmaking has been used, because if these things were regulated by a separate law, there would be a number of cases that the Socialist Party can support, or I can support as a representative myself. I also consider Mr Mayor's suggestion of what we have heard earlier, which concerns the municipal budget, to be such a suggestion. I've been a junior for eight years. district municipal representative in socialist colors, so I know exactly what difficulties local governments sometimes face by this dim ad hoc legislation and financial planning that the government has done in previous years. Therefore, for example, I accept the words of Mr Mayor with understanding, because I think that this, for example, would be a good initiative in the right direction. Too bad it's part of a salad that's completely inedible. I'd like to talk to you about media matters. Here, too, we have been used to the fact that there is a kind of craftsmanship in media matters in general, which is a bit like the clumsy car mechanic's case, when the result of the craftsmanship is that everyone will be oily to the neck, but the car won't work. We have a little bit of a similar policy ahead of us. What's desirable? It would be desirable for those people who are currently struggling with living problems to know that 40 percent of Hungarians live at a poverty level, below the minimum of living, to support at least the right of these people to culture by reducing or eliminating the fee for television for them. I think this is a good initiative, because it is not good to have physical misery followed by spiritual poverty, and I would therefore, for example, support such a government direction. With regard to initiatives on linear service providers, which is about not being able to ask consumers directly for money, I myself look at this proposal with sympathy, I tell you honestly. At the same time, however, I see some contradiction, as there are still linear service providers who have a living agreement with the government to ask for such a fee. Obviously, this agreement will be deleted and transformed. How exactly this will affect the budget and the people, I don't know. I would be pleased if, for example, with regard to media service providers, some of the amendments that have been made here would have been addressed, for example, with further amendments, which are affecting the direction in which the real problem is, that today, so many people are living in poverty in this country, for example, that they cannot pay fees for basic television. I myself believe that this is a task to be solved. I'm not sure this direction is right. Similarly, I was very sympathetic to the opinion on how good it was to increase the proportion of money spent on film production, and that it would support Hungarian film production. I am very fond of Hungarian films, I am sure that I am a friend of this initiative. However, I do not see exactly what makes these money not wander into Andy Vajna's pocket. So I think that if we operate a system that is not about quality Hungarian films, but about all kinds of ulterior motives, then such proposals actually serve these circles in the same way. With regard to postal liberalisation, I also think that it would be worth a great deal of thought in this House in itself. I do not consider the idea of the devil that you have brought here in connection with the reorganization of postal services, but I certainly do not consider this a matter of eighteenth rank. If we are serious about talking about the issue of postal efficiency, if we are serious about talking about the Hungarian postal system, we are sure that there is no debate in this House, then I think that would be worth a separate law, and it would be worth an individual opportunity to discuss this seriously. For all these reasons, I can say that there are some points in this law, which we consider, let us say, to be a step in the right direction, but in addition to the warranty elements, and to the burden of Andy Vajna and other matters, to be subtle, we cannot look kindly at the former bad practice of fidesz. There are cases, such as paper collection, which we ourselves definitely consider important, and thank you very much for bringing it here, and there are parts of this salad that are not edible for us. Please continue, I think it would help your work if you didn't bring in a salad half of which is edible and the other half isn't, because then we won't eat it all, but we'll split these salads into batteries, and then we'll certainly have a good heart to eat some of the salad, while in the rest of it we can carry out the professional debate. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-09-16-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Again, I would like to ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, who responds in a double function, partly as State Secretary and partly as rapporteur. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[15.10]]
u2014-09-16-91	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the Members who supported the proposed legislation and some of its elements. I would like to respond to some of the speakers. One observation was that there was no correlation between the elements of the bill. And I say that the intention connects the proposals, because this includes the experience gained during governance, the needs presented by professional organisations, and the problems raised as soon as possible, as broad as possible proposals for solutions. That is precisely the point of the government's practical activities: it responds immediately to problems. In addition, the consultation with professional organisations and a number of its elements have been incorporated into the bill. The other problem that arose was that of opposition representatives, representatives of Tukacs, Staudt and Szelényi, who, by the way, no longer in the Chamber, challenged the amendment of the deadline for the submission of the Budget Act. I'd like to tell you that you're making a significant mistake. It's always October 15th in the election year. So it's a false claim that we would adapt it to the municipal elections. In the year of election, the date is always different than in the general system. Not to mention that it is appropriate to strive to bring the proposal as close to the marketing year as possible, as this will make the analysis and the numbers containing it even more predictable. Ladies and gentlemen, János Volner spoke of earth law. It has nothing to do with the proposal, it's not about the land law. The law is about non-land real estate and contains a modification of the housing law. This bill is 1/A. § (1). So the speech by János Volner, who is no longer here, is based on a complete misunderstanding, but I would like to record it for the sake of the record. The better Members also mentioned privatisation in relation to the partner organisations of the post office. Here they serve as a delivery aid to the post office, and only in settlements where economic and organisational reasons exist. The aim is to ensure that the post office is able to perform its activities at a higher level, and the law states that the involvement of partner organisations should not be a violation of the universal service. As regards the speeches on Eximbank, there is some charm when socialist representatives, who have also exposed themselves to the party state system, are concerned about the relationship between the party state office and the executive authority. I think that we should always judge actors who are included in a system on the basis of expertise and performance, not of affiliation. [[Dr. István Józsa: Well, well!- Anita Heringes' intervention.]] You should have told me sooner, Congresswoman, you had the chance. Ladies and gentlemen, There was still a significant debate about the Development Bank. I think it can be stated that the MFB is not only engaged in banking but also in exercising ownership rights, since it is setting up and running a natural gas trading company. This also promotes transparency, as it is a public business ownership system, and its financing situation is public. The new company complements MVM's activities; MFB has already been present in the gas sector, is a part owner of the company that owns the gas storage facility in Festeg and participates in the gas transit company in the north-south. If we remember, a few years ago - to simplify - the Socialists handed over an empty register in the MFB, committed funds in advance, determined funds, and we use the Development Bank as the owner. It was the paper collection, I see, the biggest hit theme, everyone collected either pioneering or later when they were students. It was indeed a good party, as the students used to say, and I can say that I, who participated in it, was a joyful moment. He's never threatened to collect paper by any means, and we're gonna put the rules in this bill, and from now on as a student, everyone can collect as much paper as they can. The programme service award was also raised by Ms Schmuck Erzsébet and László Kiss. I would like to say that the awards for broadcasting services cannot increase, even if the media companies you favour wish to do so, be calm about it - this is what the bill serves. Ladies and gentlemen, We were talking about the media law. I told you about the Post Law. The substance of the amending provisions on the 98 per cent special tax is to harmonise with EU law and judicial decisions. The change in legislation on cooperative credit institutions ensures compliance with the relevant decisions of the Constitutional Court. The aim of simplification and rationalisation is the amendments on Eximbank, MFB, Szerencségy Zrt. and gas supply or the aforementioned waste management. At the same time, each set of detailed rules covers issues that are of strategic importance individually. By amending the law on cooperative credit institutions, there is an opportunity for the savings cooperative sector to become more competitive and even less likely to have accidents like those we all know about; even the Orgoványi Savings Association or other credit institutions could be mentioned. By changing the provisions on gas supply, as I have just responded to the speech, gas supply will become even more secure. Taking into account these aspects and the responses I have made, I ask this House to adopt the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-09-16-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that it is possible to submit amendments by the end of today's meeting, i.e. 25 to 30 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. For a post - agenda speech from the LMP Group, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck said: "To the margins of the world of ozone. " I give you the floor, please.
u2014-09-16-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The subject of my speech is a real XX-XXI. Story of the century, which could be a success story, but its significance goes far beyond this genre. The government should act. If you don't do that, it's up to us to draw attention to this. The point of the case is very simple to summarize. How do many or many environmental pressures that are considered to be of minor importance create a global threat that has a negative impact on us as well as harm to our health, or even a fatal risk? How could this danger be detected, reversed by cooperation and cooperation? What is the role of science, politics, the economy and civil society in this? How could we do this more effectively from a social, economic and environmental point of view? How can the present and future responsibility of the Hungarian government be expressed on this issue with a national and global outlook? But what is it really about? The ozone layer, which is an ozone-containing part of the stratosphere, is capable of absorbing ultraviolet radiation from the sun that is harmful to life. Without the high ultraviolet radiation mitigation effect of ozone, there would be no land life. Excessive ultraviolet radiation can break the DNA of living organisms to pieces, break the chemical bonds in our cells. As a result of industrial development and consumer society, a number of products that have led to the release of substances responsible for the degradation of the ozone layer in their production or use have become generic; as an example, aerosols, the production of plastic foams, cooling technology, certain solvents, soil disinfectants. [[15.20]] The problem was not necessarily with objectives, with goods to facilitate everyday life, but with how to solve it. Because the global release of substances has led to the thinning of the ozone layer that protects our lives, creating an ozone hole. The case of seals blinded by harmful radiation may not excite everyone, but it is true that skin cancer causes the deaths of thousands of our fellow humans, even now and in the future. There are many occupations where mere labour causes increased, dangerous exposure. The recognition of this led to the 1985 Convention for the Protection of the Stratospheric Ozone Layer, signed in Vienna, and to the ratification of the Montreal Protocol, resulting in a global cooperation. Following the political decision, ozone-depleting substances and products containing them were withdrawn from production and from circulation. The result speaks for itself: by the middle of this millennium, we have a chance to restore the ozone layer. This is good news, even if we now know that substitutes are strengthening climate change greenhouse gases, so we must now tackle this double impact with a joint effort. Yet in this case, an exemplary cooperation has been achieved for the benefit of everyone. Hungary was then among the first to ratify and implement the Convention. Would that still be the case? The doubt lies within us that there would be insufficient political will and that there is a lack of an adequate institutional system for the protection of the environment. The institutional system of environmental affairs has sunk to the level before the change of regime, not only is there no longer a Ministry of the Environment, but compared to the previous government cycle, when at least environmental protection had an independent State Secretary, it is now only one of the tasks of the competent State Secretary. But the saddest thing is that the administrative, institutional, research and civil system, which was built during the two decades after the change of regime, has been torn apart since 2010, and even a significant part of it has been destroyed. The current institutional and personal conditions for the environment cannot deal with the challenges of the future, but not even the problems of the present. Hungary is an excellent country with many natural values and talents, but with increased environmental sensitivity and vulnerability. Under these circumstances, environmental protection is now almost gone - but what can guarantee the right of our own and our children to a healthy environment? Not only are the interventions needed to improve, but there are no necessary conditions for the production of the basic data and information required for the decisions to be taken, not to mention the interrelationship of international cooperation. Maybe it's a success story for us... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]]
u2014-09-16-94	I'm sorry, Congresswoman, but the time frame is five minutes, and you've been over this for a minute. I've listened because I think the subject is important myself, but I'm afraid I can't give you any more time.
u2014-09-16-95	Excuse me. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-09-16-96	Ladies and gentlemen, The representative of the Government has indicated that he wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. Member István Ikotity also applied for a post - agenda speech from the LMP faction: "The LMP would ensure the participation of local communities and their right to have a say in education issues. " I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-09-16-97	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, In the municipal elections, the inhabitants of the settlements will decide what local representatives or leaders they choose for themselves. The municipal election provides one of the most important opportunities for communities to intervene in local policy, which answers to everyday problems affecting them. One of the most important conditions of democracy is that it can be cultivated at local level, defining the life of a residential community. The possibility of this involvement in the Possibly Other Politics would definitely improve our belief in participation: decisions should be brought closer to people. Unfortunately, however, the trend over the past four years is in the opposite direction. The institutions were taken from the municipalities, the local government was empty. This was also the case with educational institutions, and almost no educational institution could remain in the maintenance of the municipalities. It is true that the model of self-government school maintenance after the change of regime has created serious inequalities, mainly due to the continuing lack of money, which the whole of society is suffering in the tens of thousands of young people who are constantly leaving the school bench, and later in the labour market who are not or can only find themselves in difficulties and under bad conditions. Hungary cannot be a successful country until these inequalities are reduced. Among other things, the response to this unequal and unfair situation was the public reservation of schools. However, we managed to get across the horse, Europe's most centralised, over-nationalised education system came into play, instead of the gold middle road being reached by the government. According to the LMP, the solution to all this would be to ensure that, if they were prepared for this and wanted to do so, they could get their schools back, for which the state would, of course, have to provide adequate resources. The nationalisation of the last four years has also been accompanied by a serious withdrawal of resources, as regards operating expenditure, which is the only reason why the equalisation of educational inequalities cannot be successful. Severe quality inequality needs to be corrected, balanced, but it is not necessarily the only way to achieve a comprehensive nationalisation. Furthermore, an educational system that does not allow local communities to have a say in the lives of their own schools cannot be successful, at least to a certain level. Education is a public matter, and it is also a local matter. Local problems, needs and needs also need to be addressed to a certain extent by local solutions. You can't just run it from the top, from Szalay Street, decide everything in the Secretary of State's study. The too rigid and centralised education system slows down the process, kills the initiatives, does not give room for local innovation, which is very much needed by the education system. Without autonomy, freedom and trust, there is no successful education. You shouldn't tie the teachers' hands like you're doing with nationalizing the textbook system. Education policy cannot exclude local governments, local residents, teachers, parents and students. It is not only the principle of democracy, participation, that demands that we involve stakeholders in making decisions, but the experience of the past years has also shown us what it means to miss them. Think of the ongoing directorship scandals, the last time at the Kazinczy Ferenc School in Miskolc, but I could also mention Jelky András Szak School of Baja. This is why LMP has proposed and re-proclaimed the setting up of local education round tables. In view of the transitional nature of the current legislative environment, we at least involve all the stakeholders in education in making decisions; they can express their views and help each other solve everyday operational problems. This requires a common platform, a common forum. The government also senses the untenable situation, the restructuring of the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre is on the agenda, but wherever the KLIK goes, it doesn't mean anything if the local community's right to participate and to speak is not settled. In the absence of this, there is no successful education system, and ultimately there is no successful country. Thank you for listening.
u2014-09-16-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform the Member and fellow Members that the representative of the Government has indicated that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. For a post - agenda speech from the MSZP Group, Mr László Kiss said: "From Lajos Balázs, a true man. " Here you go, Congressman. [[15.30]]
u2014-09-16-99	Thank you for the floor. My comment will tell you what makes it a national matter I'd like to talk about. There are people who live in the age in which they are born, there are people who just survive everyday life, but there are also people who form the world in which they live. I would like to talk to this House about such a person, Lajos Balázs. In 1984, he retired as an engineer as an excellent employee of Ganz Electricity Industries. He lived in a county of peace, so he saw with his own eyes how they were poor, how the people who lived here were losing ground. In the late '80s, early '90s, there was a long-awaited unemployment in the region, and crime in Fékásmegyer increased. Of course, young people were still in the most vulnerable situation. Lajos Balázs saw this, so in order to stop the young people from breaking down, he thought he had to do it. He knew that knowledge could draw young people out of their position, so under the 11th edition of Hímző utca he created the modern-day Ganz Youth Workshop with the intention of making children wandering the streets aimlessly meaningfully spend their free time. The workshop became a modeling, modeling, electronic club, which merged in 1997 with the amateur computer club of the Békásmegyer residence. Here, interested young people could learn theoretical, technical and practical knowledge. In addition to everyday programs, he also organized summer camps, where those whose financial situation did not allow this to go on holiday. Although, after the change of regime, following the privatisation of the Ganz Works, the club lost its support for the parent company, Lajos Balázs' activity brought back new supporters, because they believed in Lajos Balázs's dream, the learned, working youth. How well this initiative worked is a good indication of the fact that Article III of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has been adopted. The district police department was constantly in favour of the initiative, because it was felt that the ability of young people to spend their time with meaningful activities had a positive impact. Its activities have become such a pattern that a similar youth club has been established in Canada, and this has become of national significance. After all, if you think that a country with a huge civil tradition can come to Hungary to learn, and even take Lajos Balázs on a study trip to show you how to offer meaningful work and a future for these young people is unique in this country. According to the statistics of the workshop, some 10,000 young people have participated in this activity over the years. Tens of thousands of young people have become open to technical sciences, and most of these young people still work as engineers, teachers, or people who are open to technical careers. In recognition of his activity, Lajos Balázs received a Pro Óbuda award in 2011 at the initiative of the Socialist MEPs in Óbuda, with the unanimous vote of the body of representatives. So I think it is fair to say that we are talking about a true man who has worked for the community at every stage of his life and at the last stage for the young people of Frog County. Without him, it is reasonable to say that these young people were orphans. Unfortunately, in 2012 Lajos Balázs finished this work forever. His view is well shown by the fact that, at the time of his death, one of his admirers remembered him; I would like to quote him literally, because I think it suits Lajos Balázs: " I grew up near the Ganz workshop by seeing him every day, admiring the window of the workshop. And then I had kids, and they were there every day in the shop window. Uncle Louis waved at them every single time, and when the children finally turned seven, they became members of that fine little community. " Dear House, I'm proud to know Lajos Balázs, the true man. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-09-16-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Demeter, Member of the MSZP Group, also spoke after the agenda: "To the margins of the NATO summit. " I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-09-16-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Csaba Hende, before his ministerial appointment in May 2010, said that the resources needed for operation are missing in many areas of defence. The extent to which the Minister's diagnosis was correct with regard to the assessment of the situation in 2010 could be discussed. However, it is beyond discussion that the defence budget has fallen significantly compared to 2010. Not only in real terms, but also in nominal terms, the Orbán government spends ten billion less on defence purposes than its predecessors did. The percentage of defence expenditure is astoundingly below 0.8 per cent of GDP. Powerful government propaganda is not able to cover up the sad consequences of the austerity policy affecting the Hungarian defence. This is the reduction in the number of military personnel, no substantial technical developments were made, and the asset park was further amortised. Unfortunately, what we have been drawing attention to for years now is today: the dramatic cuts in the defence budget have been extremely irresponsible by the current reigning defence political leadership. Meanwhile, the security situation in our region has changed significantly in recent months, and unfortunately it is not in a positive direction. This forces all countries in the area and NATO itself to reevaluate its strategy so far. In this situation, Hungary's security interest is to stop the further depreciation of the Hungarian Defence Forces immediately. If this elementary national interest had not been recognised by the government on its own, perhaps our NATO allies, who were more sensitive to security threats, would have realized that. It is probably due to this that, after the NATO summit in Wales in early September, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán announced an increase in defence expenditure. True, he did not mention the extent and timing of this, he merely said that this should be decided by the Hungarian Parliament. For years, the government has been covering up the budget by raising the budget by 0.1 per cent of GDP from 2016. This extremely low figure also clearly shows that the government is not aware of the serious damage it has done to the defence operation of the defence in recent years. An immediate increase in the defence budget is needed. He is keen to hide the continuing flaws and irresponsible decisions of the government and the defence administration behind sound words and reference to classified information. It's time for Homeland Security to finally make responsible decisions. In view of the changed security environment, the MSZP has long advocated an immediate increase in the defence budget of at least 1 percent of GDP. An appropriate government decision would be welcome. My fellow Members, Mr Fidesz, are likely to vote in the same way without saying a word about the proposal for an increase, as in previous years, the reduction of defence spending to a historic low point. Therefore, the only question remains: is the government really committed to increasing defence spending, not in a distant future, but in an immediate and meaningful way? We expect you to increase the amount of resources that can be spent on the development and operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-09-16-102	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to inform Congresswoman that the representative of the Government has indicated that she wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. Mr Lajos Kepli, from the Jobbik Group, spoke after the agenda under the title "Red Sludge Disaster - Counting Four Years. " Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-09-16-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I am very pleased that my speech after the agenda is still present as a representative of the government, Zoltán Kovács, who, as a government politician in Veszprém County, was there on the shore of the Torna Creek when the red sludge disaster occurred, and he flooded the settlements of Kolontár, Devecser and Somlóvásárhely as a flooded red river on 5 October 2010. [[15.40]] During the disaster - these numbers have often been described - we know that this toxic, alkaline liquid, red sludge, ten people have died, more than 200 people have been injured, and economic and ecological damage is simply invaluable. At that time, at the site of the Red Sludge disaster, pro-government politicians promised each other that sin should not go unpunished, but after four years, we still see to this day that there was not even a first-degree conviction in the criminal case. It is clear that this is a non-governmental competence - yesterday, an interpellation was rejected by the government on this point - but it does upset people's sense of justice that they can deliver judgments on matters of much lower gravity even sooner. Obviously, people are still waiting for some kind of criminal judgment in this case. And much more is expected, as more and more victims have won final lawsuits against MAL Zrt. in recent years, but the compensation payments have not yet been paid. MAL Zrt. is in liquidation and replaced by the National MAL Zrt. it is a state-owned company, but it does not consider itself to be a successor, MAL Zrt. MAL Zrt. is unable to assume financial and other legal responsibility for the compensations granted to its successor, MAL Zrt. The insolvency administrator is unable to provide information as to when the victims will receive the final compensation. We also know that the sum of HUF 2 billion collected in the Hungarian Damage Rescue Fund was received by the three settlements, and public institutions have been renewed, they have received stoning, parking and other infrastructure investments, but not direct compensation for the victims. My question is, what about these damages? Whether MAL Zrt. has or has the option to do so if MAL Zrt. does not. Is that why you can't stand it, so the government can stand up to the payment of the final amounts of damages? There is some responsibility for the fact that, after the red sludge disaster occurred, MAL Zrt. His account was only closed late, MAL Zrt. And the private property of their owners is not at all. This was clearly an opportunity for financial opportunities to deteriorate even then to pay future compensation. In addition, the victims are obliged to pay a fee of 1 per cent, up to HUF 200,000, even after non-financial claims, and they also paid expert fees, but still do not see the end of the tunnel. On the top of the list of liquidations are the various authorities and banks, the liquidation commissioner; the payment of the environmental penalty remains in the air, and the simple people, who have suffered damage without their own faults, are somewhere at the end of the line. Why are they at the end of the line, and why are they the last when compensation is due? Another question is whether the victims of the mud disaster may receive tax exemption in a lawsuit against the injured party, or whether they may be taken over by someone. Often or most of the time, these are people who are not wealthy, who are not in a good financial situation, so these questions, these suggestions, are certainly justified, because, even though four years have passed, these questions have not been closed, these are still open questions. If I am fortunate that Mr Secretary of State will respond to my speech after the agenda, I ask him that we ignore the often accepted catch that this would be a campaign on our part, a municipal campaigning, since we are on the fourth anniversary of the disaster, and I said every year around the anniversary, it is outrageous that there is no judgment and that there is something to be done about damages in the air. That is why I have stood up now, and in the interests of the victims of the red sludge disaster and in the interests of the Hungarian people, we will stand up until there is a satisfactory judgment and a satisfactory settlement of these damages. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-16-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[On Dr. Zoltán Kovács' signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-09-16-105	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I agree partly with what has been said here, with regard to their factuality. I agree that the lawsuit has indeed been going on for four years and there has been no judgment of first instance. But we know that there are also some other lawsuits in Hungary, where there has not been a judgment of first instance in four years. It's not the government's competence, it's the justice system. The government has done everything in its power to facilitate the speeding up of lawsuits. In this case, the Minister of Justice, László Trócsányi, in Be. and Pp. He spoke about his new codification during his hearing, according to which he intended to facilitate the acceleration of this after his entry into office. I would like to inform the Member that the state has done an extraordinary job with regard to Devecser, Kolontár and Somlóvásárhely, as he immediately spent more than HUF 30 billion on these settlements before the damages lawsuits. The actual damage has been paid; basically, the lawsuits that are the most difficult to judge, the lawsuits for non-material damage, are in progress. And I said, "MAL Zrt." He's going to be in liquidation, and there's no way to know at the time of the disaster. As far as the final judgment is concerned, indeed, some final judgments have already been made. The Damage Fund was also mentioned by the congressman. I would also like to say that the extended deadline for the Damage Fund, according to which it must complete its activities, has expired for more than a year. Moreover, the Damage Fund paid some HUF 300 million for personal damage, and the rest was Community damage. The Damage Fund as a body has acted in accordance with the legislation and the restoration that served the entire community has taken place accordingly. Honourable Congressman, I think it really needs to be considered what the next step is in the case of the remaining, perhaps the most personal, but perhaps the smallest volume of damage is, but I think that the government cannot be misworded for the state, because it provided immediate assistance, paid for the actual damage, built a residential park, fixed roads, and the damage relief fund paid for both personal and actual damage. And judging, I think, will have to be addressed to the President of the Supreme Court instead of to the President of the Curia.
u2014-09-16-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 24 September. Thank you for your work, thank you for keeping the record, for the help of the office staff. The meeting's closed. Goodbye. [[The meeting ended at 3:48 p.m.]]
