u2021-05-20-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 21st day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. I welcome all those who monitor our work and welcome our colleagues. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2022 follows. The bill is T/16118. and the opinion of the State Audit Office T/16118/1. can be found on the website. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain the distribution of the time frame of the factions available today. Mr. Messenger!
u2021-05-20-1	Dear Parliament, Today's 13-hour timeframe is divided into 268 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 122 minutes for the KDNP Group, 90 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 84 minutes for the MSZP Group, 66 minutes for the DK Group, 57 minutes for the LMP Group, 54 minutes for the Dialogue Group and 39 minutes for the independent Members. I would like to inform you that the unused time frame for negotiations available on each sitting cannot be carried over to another day.
u2021-05-20-2	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The opening speech, the speech by the President and the Vice-President of the State Audit Office and the President of the Board of Budgets, and speeches by keynote speakers and representatives took place at the beginning of the general debate yesterday. The further speeches will now take place in the time frame available for today. I would like to draw your attention to the possibility of proposing amendments by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, Before giving the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, will be given the floor.
u2021-05-20-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to a consistent economic policy over recent years, the epidemic was a strong, resilient, balanced economy last March. Based on the very good results of the Hungarian economy in the ten years preceding the outbreak, the strong fundamentals and the success of the government's steps to tackle the crisis, it is rightly expected that economic growth in Hungary will be restored faster than in other countries concerned. First proof of this is the first quarter GDP, as GDP increased by 1.9 percent in the first quarter; analysts, government, nobody expected such a good result. Obviously, there are reasons for this, and I would like to address this in my speech, among other things. What is included in the budget "22" in this regard? Dynamic, 5.2 percent GDP growth with moderate inflation of 3 percent. In line with the expected deficit reduction trend in EU countries, the deficit target is 5.9 per cent of GDP. It also provides a security reserve for the.22 budget, reaching 0.4 percent of GDP. In the next year, as a result of the expected economic expansion and disciplined management, after temporary growth, public debt will once again be on a downward path, falling below 80% of GDP, and this process will continue. Allow me to look back on the performance of the Hungarian economy since 2010. The Hungarian economy was able to make significant progress between 2010 and 2019. While our country was considered the world's most vulnerable country in 2009, and at the moment of the global crisis, the then government was among the first to turn to international organisations for credit, it was one of the European Union's engines in economic growth, thanks to the 10 years of Fidesz-KDNP governance. In recent years, we have repaid loans previously received from the IMF and the European Commission in the previous crisis, and Hungary is able to finance its operations mainly from internal sources. Contrary to the period of socialist governance, the economy is not characterised by indebtedness, but is based on stable and balanced fundamentals, where the level of debt was also on a downward path in the period prior to the outbreak. In 2013, the Hungarian economy was on a stable and balanced path for growth, and GDP grew by 30 percent and nearly 30 percent between 2013 and 2019. In 2019 Hungary's GDP per capita was 73 per cent of the EU average, with only 66 per cent in 2010. I would now like to talk about what the crown virus has caused the Hungarian economy. Unfortunately, the pandemic has halted earlier positive trends. But not only in Hungary, but in the whole world. In 2020, the performance of the Hungarian economy fell by 5 percent, but it proved more resilient to the crisis than the EU average. Thanks to the consistent economic policy of recent years, Hungary faced the challenges of the pandemic, equipped with strong fundamentals and sound public finances, as a multi-legged economy. Although the Hungarian economy continued to expand by 2.1 percent in the first quarter of 2020 with the epidemic, in the second quarter the GDP decline was 13.3% as a result of the restrictive measures. As a result of the forced decline in demand, services have suffered a decline: accommodation services, catering, transport, entertainment and leisure sectors. Production in the manufacturing sector has fallen far behind the year before, after the first wave of production in several factories has been interrupted for weeks. But the investment rate has also decreased, but it has reached 27.3%, which is still high in the European comparison, but if we look at our own processes, this is a decline. Dear Parliament, The epidemic also affected the consumption choices of economic operators. Previous dynamic growth in household consumption has been broken. [[8.10]] The country is also in a difficult economic situation. Obviously, the government had to decide how to protect Hungarian people, how to protect the Hungarian economy. What has the Hungarian Government done in this difficult situation? In order to mitigate the negative economic impact of the pandemic, the government decided to launch measures covering the economy at the time of the outbreak. The size of the entire rescue package, such as health expenditure, family support, economic protection, job protection, job creation, non-budget financial measures, credit lines and credit incentives, was close to 30% of Hungarian GDP in 2020. The consistent economic policy of the years preceding the pandemic has ensured that the reserves accumulated in previous years leave room for large-scale crisis management measures. In addition to the corporate sector that was negatively affected by the crisis, households and families could expect comprehensive help. Almost 90 percent of the allocated direct financial resources have reached economic operators. Over the course of more than a year, the effects of both fiscal and monetary measures have been significant, and crisis management measures have proved successful. In the framework of the economic protection action plan, temporary tax reliefs for companies amounted to HUF 420 billion. As a result of the credit moratorium, a deferred repayment of HUF 1700-1800 billion could remain in the real economy. Discounted loan schemes help to maintain liquidity in the corporate sector. This contracted loan has already exceeded 3250 billion, but households, families and people have received a discount and assistance, such as the automatic extension of children's, children's and children's care during the emergency period, the retirement of the 13th month's pension, large-scale home-building programmes or the wage increase of doctors and nurses. Thanks to the wage support programmes, 1 million 159 thousand Hungarians received labour market or training support. Our support programmes, employment protection programmes and tax contributions protected over 770 thousand jobs by the end of May. Dear Parliament, There is a lot of criticism from the opposition about the crisis management activity of the country, the government. Allow me to make some macro-comparison with regard to tackling the economic crisis in 2008-2009 and to compare it with the current situation. Perhaps it is only natural for everyone that the country is still functioning, that there are no liquidity problems, that the economy is recovering, that there is no significant unemployment, that the country's perception of credit rating agencies is also positive. This may be natural for all of us, but if we compare what happened in 2008 and 2009, we may understand that this is not a natural thing, because of the government's thinking, the government's decisions, that the country is now so stable from an economic point of view. I'd just like to compare unemployment figures. While unemployment has increased by some 150 to 200 thousand people from 2008 to 2010, and the number of unemployed has reached half a million, 500 thousand people, the crisis has been going on for over a year in the context of the current crisis, with employment figures showing that the same number of people working as when the crisis began. While in 2008 a prolonged multi-annual unemployment process was developed thanks to the crisis management measure of the then socialist government, unemployment is now returning to its old state following a temporary wave. Therefore, the measures taken by the government did not negatively affect the unemployment process. But this is equally true in terms of GDP, economic growth. While there were no measures to stimulate economic growth in 2008 and therefore the country faced a prolonged economic growth problem, we can now see that a year after the crisis, we are talking about Hungary being among the first in terms of economic growth in the European Union. After all, as I mentioned earlier, the country was able to show a 1.9 percent increase in the first quarter. The same is true of the budget deficit. At the time of the then government, the situation of the budget deficit could not be improved in one year, and now we can see that there is a budgetary deficit at an average level of the European Union. This is also true of debt, as socialist governments were not characterised by an increase in debt due to a crisis, as the current government was forced to do, but by a continuous increase in debt at the time of their governance, thus increasing the debt to GDP above 80 per cent. But I could tell you this, because we can also compare the trend of the decline and increase in taxes. The Socialists increased taxes during the crisis, which is characterised by raising the VAT rate from 20 to 25 percent, while the current government reduces taxes: personal income tax, social contribution tax. This is also true of people's obligation to manage their credit. While socialist governments brought millions of families into foreign exchange loans, during the crisis, no treatment or assistance was shown, the Fidesz government was able to help hundreds of thousands and even millions of families through the introduction of the credit moratorium. I could list the line down to the decline in incomes, I could list the line by taking the 13th month pension allowance, all suggesting that crisis management at the time made the country's fate difficult, and the current decisions are a way out for the country, a re-launch for the country's economy, people and families. The economic re-launch action plan helps Hungarian businesses, Hungarian workers, in three stages. The whole point of this action plan is to reboot and put people in a position like that before the crisis, or perhaps even in a better position. It is therefore necessary to provide jobs for everyone, and this process is currently taking place. Dear Parliament, Hungarian economic policy remains committed to the catching-up process, and the government intends to achieve this goal unchanged by improving competitiveness, continuing tax reductions and maintaining responsible budgetary management. This objective is also reflected in the budget of.22. I ask the honourable Parliament to continue its negotiations and to adopt the budget for 2022. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[8.20]]
u2021-05-20-4	Thank you very much, Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State. I give the floor to a spokesperson, Mr Péter Ovádi, Fidesz. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-20-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the history books, I'm sure the last year will have a place. A pandemic has swept across borders that has put all states on the continent in a difficult situation. Fighting a virus, fighting for the economy, fighting to get our old lives back. There is no doubt that the Hungarian government's measures, the Hungarian vaccination programme, have performed outstandingly and are at the forefront. We have taken up the fight, and we will not allow families and lives to be destroyed, since the coronal virus epidemic has already caused too many casualties. Instead of a welfare-based society, we believed and continue to believe in work. The amount of jobs the virus took, we create the same. I am very proud, because the corona virus epidemic has proved to us that in the 1st constituency of Veszprém County there are employers, small, medium-sized and large companies who not only care for their employees, but who see the future in the development. The data of Veszprém county are telling: 36 companies, 42 billion HUF investment volume, 15.6 billion state aid, 9683 retained jobs. And this is only the year 2020, because the investment spirit didn't stop in 2021, and two companies started to develop with state aid this year as well. Based on data from the period before the Crown Virus crisis, Hungary is one of the most dynamically growing economies throughout Europe. Following the halt in 2020, the Hungarian economy will be able to increase its performance by 4.3 percent in 2021 and 5.2 percent in 2022, thanks to government measures and the economic recovery after the coronal virus epidemic. Ladies and gentlemen, The development of the countryside continues to rumble, including the Hungarian village programme, which gave small settlements a chance to go through unprecedented development. The programme creates an increasingly attractive area for young people. Renewed roads, kindergartens, medical clinics, community squares, church institutions, and local civil society associations provide funds for the care of local identity. This will be no different in 2022, as 93 billion HUF will be allocated to the programme. The village CSOK has given many people the opportunity to build their lives in a rural, family environment. Families have been given an opportunity in recent years that is unique throughout Europe. The most important thing is that during the trials of the corona virus epidemic, these subsidies remained. As long as the Fidesz government provides substantial support to families for childbearing and child rearing, the GyurcsányBajnai government has hit children in addition to the work with a high tax rate, there has been no family tax relief, they have reduced the risk from three to two years, they have doubled the cost of living and they have eliminated the opportunity to create a reduced home, driving thousands of families into a currency trap. Families and children are the future of a nation. Since 2010, the government has increased the support of families by nearly two and a half times, one of the highest in Europe, with about 5 percent of GDP. In the budget, nearly HUF 2780 billion is available next year to support Hungarian families. Today, the family and the child have become valuable again in Hungary, there is a future for our country again, and young people feel it and know it. Childbearing has increased. For example, there are settlements in my constituency where the population of the settlement has doubled and the kindergarten is outgrown, and it has become necessary to expand it. But let us not forget the cities, because neither did the Government of Hungary. Veszprém county-righted city has started to invest in the project, which has never been seen before. The new sports swimming pool will be inaugurated soon, since the stress testing will begin and the public will be able to take possession of it afterwards. The gymnast is building, and the south evasive is making good progress. We set the foundation stone for the national Szakipark Veszprém Industrial Park. The Szakipark investment is a unique merger that takes place with the cooperation of Veszprém Municipality, Veszprém Vocational Training Center, VSZ Zrt., Pannon University and local entrepreneurs. The investment by reviving the centuries-old industrial traditions of Veszprém, the XXI. In response to the expectations of the 20th century, it intends to operate a sectoral training centre for the labour force adapted to real market needs, which constitutes a living bridge between businesses and learners. Within weeks, the reconstruction of the first phase of the Veszprém Petőfi Theatre will begin. In next year's budget, HUF 50 billion is earmarked for the programme "Modern Cities." The city is booming and is preparing for 2023, because then we will be the cultural capital of Europe, Veszprém and its region. Not only quality cultural programmes, but also infrastructure developments, so the long-awaited, once more beautiful buildings get a new look, interior and task. The former Heim Pál Children's Hospital is renewed, but the Ruttner House also has a new function. Digital museum, community spaces, early development center are also planned. We should also not leave the retirement age behind, as they are the ones who gave us the basics, who owe us much. The retirement of the 13th month pension will continue in 2022, and all our elderly countrymen can count on the pension premium. Next year's budget allocates HUF 160 billion to the second stage of the 13th month's pension and more than HUF 68 billion to pay the pension premium in 2022. The amount of pensionable budgetary resources will increase by HUF 255 billion to more than HUF 4162 billion this year as well. This affects more than 16,000 pensioners in the 1st constituency of Veszprém. Ladies and gentlemen, Due to the epidemic, the most important element in the draft budget for 2022 is the re-launch of the economy, the protection of families, the support of children's educators and the appreciation of the elderly. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-20-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Preliminary speaker Mr Brenner Koloman, Jobbik. You have the floor.
u2021-05-20-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The budget always shows value, so let's see what the government of Fidesz, which has built 11 years of one-party overpower, has intended for the Hungarian university world in this budget. We know that there was a transfer of foundations and that all sorts of long-term development funds were promised to the Senate, who then, so to speak, voted voluntarily and singing to support them in the form of foundations, both by the Hungarian budget and by the European Union's money. Even István Stumpf, as a fig leaf, was reactivated by the Fidesz government, one of the flag bearers of the long-tossed civil flag, who also played the remains of his credibility by deceiving the Senates in this glorious role. After all, we can see that the European Union's money, since it would be examined by the European Union's anti-corruption office, does not even ask for Fidesz, so the Hungarian university world will fall from a serious thousand billion. However, let's face it, after 11 years of Fidesz administration, a university assistant, who, by the way, I remember him a few years ago, made HUF 113 thousand net as university leader, sometimes with a doctoral title, is now worth 145 thousand forints. This is your choice of values. We, the People's Party Jobbik, treat the university world and education as a major nation strategy sector as the only right-wing, centre-right party of the opposition, since we know it is modern, XXI. As a party of the century, the knowledge centers of the XXI. In the centuries of knowledge and information, they are also of paramount importance from a social point of view. [[8.30]] Since universities translated into foundation forms have practically been removed from the scope of political decision-makers in this form, we hope that the National Unity Government, which was set up in 22 will correct this, so our amendments to the budget concern only the elementary budget for the remaining few universities with a state reserve, in order to finally ensure, in particular, the high pay of young, talented teachers and researchers working in the lower ranks of the university rankings, which would be very much needed in the Hungarian university world as a result of the discipline. And if we're talking about value choice, let's look at how many billion forints Fidesz spends on the Chinese Fudan University campus for half a sentence; that's your choice of values and nothing else. Hungarian universities deserve significantly more than that. Mr President, Dear House, The workers of the cultural sphere have recently lost their status as civil servants due to Fidesz's system of one-party overpowering. I also stated in the debate at that time that this shows your choice of values. I'll never forget that story when a national archivist told me that he was invited into the ministry by a Fidesz boy in tube pants, and he ordered that he write in half a page the next day what the archives are for. Dear fellow Members, This is how you estimate the cultural sphere. They have no idea what the archivist is doing! This is your choice of values. In addition, the very few, but still some kind of security-giving civil servants were withdrawn from the highly underpaid workers of the cultural sphere. I have therefore tabled amendments to the budget in order to finally remedy the extremely low wages of the day laborers of culture and to raise them strongly; as many times these excellent colleagues, librarians, archivists, cultural managers, sometimes together with a doctoral title, or at least with a high university degree, I think that if we look at the median wage or the minimum wage, or the average wage, outstandingly and low wage for their social appreciation. We believe that this should be changed urgently. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Sopron region, my constituency, has an incredibly rich cultural and natural heritage, the protection and development of which I think we can all stand out clearly. Since 2018 on the shore of Lake Fertő we have called a residential forum on my initiative, because only those involved knew nothing about the details of the previously planned giga project since 15 years, including boat owners, operators operating outside the Lake Fertő, yacht owners, and so on, well, we have been constantly working together with the civilian movements also fighting against the huge investments made on the Austrian side. I am the founding member of the Hungarian Group of Friends of Lake Fertő and on the Austrian side with the same name, Freunde des Neusiedlersees, in very good cooperation and joint fight for what the Sopron region, I would say, is rather the common treasure of the citizens of the historical Western Hungarian region, whose tourism development needs to be supported in particular. Make no mistake. At the same time, the huge investment that Győző Orbán is building from Gánti's stones Lőrinc Mészáros, with plans for such a large hotel and a yacht port of 150 people, I indicate that this is a lake in Steppe, if you look at it a little bit, which sometimes dries out, so to design such a yacht port here... well, that man wasn't very much in the vicinity of Lake Fertő. My father used to fish there and there, so I know this lake a little better than most of my fellow Members do. In addition, after 8 o'clock on the shore of Lake Fertő, there are so many mosquitoes that on the terrace of the hotel who can stay outside after 8 o'clock, I will congratulate you. By the way, there are four large, unused and non-functioning hotels in Sopron County, so I think there is a great need for an impact assessment here. That is why I have submitted to the budget my amendment to examine in detail the priority tourist development in the vicinity of Lake Fertő, and not only by building a large hotel on the shore of Lake Fertő with Lőrinc Mészáros, but also Balf, Hegykő and so on, the other settlements are normally developed so that the inhabitants of the region can finally... I would point out that we have been unable to go to Lake Fertő for two years, and security people who speak the dialect of Sopron prevent us from going there with a parentheses closed, so that we should practically assess it with a fair impact study on how to properly revive the pile houses belonging to UNESCO's World Heritage region, which are now being demolished at their own expense by the esteemed Fidesz comrades, so that we can do a well-thought-out tourism development that fits the traditions of the historical West-Hungarian region, the reed-covered pile houses, and so on and so on, and make good investments that preserve local biodiversity that are needed very much on the shore of Lake Fertő. My next topic is wind power. We in Sopron know where the wind blows from: always from the northwest direction and constantly. This also applies to the entire Kisaland. That is why, together with my better friend Zoltán Magyar, who is in the constituency of Mosonmagyaróvár, I presented a proposal for a resolution in which we draw the Fidesz government's attention to the fact that new wind power plants have not been built in Hungary for ten years. Since 2016, it has practically been prohibited by law to build wind power plants in Hungary. This is a very short-sighted policy, according to Jobbik, because according to all scientific research, solar energy and wind energy complement each other very well just because of environmental backgrounds, and there is indeed an area in Hungary in which the Kisaland and the Sopron region are particularly such, where continuous and excellent northwest wind flow can ensure that we can finally start thinking in this renewable energy source. After all, we all know that climate change would require this in our entire energy mix. The next question concerns health, social and child protection institutions in the region of Sopron, which have been torn apart by a coronal virus epidemic, as we can see that your policy has been to remove very serious resources from the municipalities, because it was difficult for them to bear that, thanks to the cooperative opposition parties in the autumn of 2019, a lot of local governments have finally created fresh colors, and at last a number of Hungarian citizens have been liberated from Fidesz' one-party powers. As a punishment, you also took hundreds of millions of forints from a town with Sopron county rights, although this is, of course, a Fidesz-led settlement. But it didn't matter. That is why I have tabled amendments to remedy the incredible damage caused by the Crown Virus in health, social and child protection institutions. I therefore urge the amendments to this effect to be supported with respect. Finally, but not least, thank God, ten years late completed the motorway of M85 almost to the border; not yet, it will have to wait a year or two, but it is ready for Sopron. [[8.40]] But with this we have not solved the very important problem of the 30 settlements in the region and in the constituency, in which good progress has been made in recent years, but there are still an awful lot of settlements where the roads are simply in a ignominious state. Usually in these settlements, residents in Austria do not buy jeeps for pleasure, but because if they didn't buy jeeps, they would end up breaking a shaft every day. That is why I proposed a more serious item as a model for the renovation of the road between Gyalóka and Szakony. It's just a little color for this, too. When I was with the mayor a few years ago, he asked me when Mr. Brenner thought this trip had been renovated here last time. I did say spontaneously that 1975, by the time the mayor turned pale, and he said, how do you know, Mr Brenner, that this road was last fully renovated in 1974. So, in this respect, I have tabled an amendment, as a kind of pattern, and to draw attention to the fact that very important improvements have been made, indeed, in terms of roads in the region, but there is still room for improvement. I mean, then Magyar utca is another such neurological point in the city of Sopron. Here because of increased traffic, and because due to wage differences not only the Sopronians, but also the Hungarian citizens who are forced to leave their homeland are already passing through the eastern regions of the country to work in Austria, Magyar utca is a street on which there is very important transit traffic, so I also proposed to renovate this street. That is why I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect to support these proposals for the benefit of the citizens of the Sopron region. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-05-20-8	Thank you very much, Congressman Brenner Koloman. I now give the floor to Vice-President János Latorcai, my fellow chairman, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2021-05-20-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Whether you like it or not, it is clear that the budget for 2022 is the budget for restarting Hungary, as a result of the discussions, comments and analyses that have been held so far. There is every hope that, thanks to the resources provided in the budget and the successful vaccination programme, we will be among the first in the European Union to have a normal, long-established, growing economy that will bring prosperity. Of course, we do not know exactly what the future holds, that there will be another wave of the coronal virus epidemic, but the draft budget also provides a reserve for such an unwanted occurrence. We have heard from the expozee that the budget has taken into account the national and social impacts of today's Covid-19 pandemic, the conditions for re-launching the economy, support for businesses and families, investment in job creation and the necessary health improvements. In total, more than HUF 28 500 billion will be available to achieve all of these goals, the majority of which is guaranteed by our country's internal resources. Based on the strength of the Hungarian people, as Parliamentary Secretary Tállai has said here today in his Kisexpozé, the draft expects an economic growth of 5.2 per cent, moderate inflation of 3 per cent, deficit-to-GDP deficit target of 5.9 per cent and a reserve of more than 0.4 per cent of GDP. There is a legitimate question as to how far these numbers can be achieved when the third wave of the epidemic has not yet ended. Therefore, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is not a very friendly institution with close friendship with our country, as well as large international financial analysts and credit rating agencies will expect GDP growth of between 5 and 6 percent in Hungary next year following the projected rebound in the second half of this year, as it is considered that the Hungarian economy held well during the second wave last year, and this quarter, as we have heard: 1.9 percent growth figures are much better than in most EU Member States. These forecasts support the government's objective of returning Hungary to the course from which the coronal virus epidemic derailed it in 2019. Last year the total domestic product increased by 4.6 percent, the total value of the investments was 28,6 percent of GDP, while in the other Central European economies and in the Baltic region in our region it was only 20-some, rather 21-22 percent. However, in order to be back in the lead, in addition to the protection of the economy, it is essential to focus on long-term measures to improve competitiveness. This is fundamental and extremely important. This is why the government decided to prefer investment, measures that underpin the economic growth of the economy, rather than the US type of helicopter money-shopping or the decisions that over-emphasis on Kurzarbeit, and to follow the same spirit next year by developing a recovery plan covering 13 percent of GDP, which aims to successfully tackle the challenges of the Hungarian economy and to return to its dynamic growth path in the shortest possible time. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that the budget provides more than HUF 7300 billion in 2022 for priority programmes, development, investment and measures to promote employment. Some of these will be directly invested in job creation, while another significant proportion will be spent on tax and contribution-related measures. Speaking of the latter, it should be pointed out that the government will continue to represent the tax reduction policy next year. The employer's tax burden on wages will be reduced by 2 percentage points from 1 July 2022; the vocational training contribution will be derived and the social contribution tax will be reduced by 0.5 percentage points. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to some of the priority programmes of the Economic Re-launch Action Plan. One of the most important is the support of Hungarian businesses, which provides significant resources to protect the sectors most exposed to the economic effects of the coronal virus epidemic. These sectors will be supported by investment support programmes, preferential loans, support for infrastructure development and tax reductions. Within the framework of the economic re-launch action plan, the investment fund will continue to invest in education, health, transport, cultural, leisure and sport, tourism development, ecclesiastical and environmental areas, and there is already significant further economic and social investment in the preparatory phase. [[8.50]] The third is digitalisation, in which the government is committed to the wider possible use of artificial intelligence and digitalisation. Agricultural and rural development is one of the most prominent economic policy goals, there will be significant resources available to increase the competitiveness, added value and income-generating capacity of Hungarian agriculture and to reduce the increasing impact of climate change on agricultural production. This is also where environmental and climate protection is to be addressed. In the framework of the economic re-launch action plan, the construction of the green energy and circular economy and the full digitalisation of the Hungarian economy will start from the second half of this year, in line with Hungary's climate protection objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, Achieving all these priorities is of real value to Christian Democratic policy when its results reach all members of society, but especially families. Since 2010, this position has been consistently expressed by the Hungarian government, and it is due to this fact that we are now using one of the largest amounts in Europe, some 5 percent of GDP, for family support. In practice, this means that next year nearly HUF 2780 billion will be available for this purpose. The government intends to complement the best practice of family taxation and the advantages and subsidies introduced earlier this year and next year in order to strengthen our country from the economic downturn caused by the Crown Virus pandemic. Since our greatest value is that of the family, in this situation too, the assistance tailored to the individual situation, as well as the support of childbearing and child rearing, can serve the real purpose of our country. As of 1 January 2022, the exemption of people under the age of 25 will help young people start their own lives and start their own families by HUF 140 billion. Family formation and home creation will continue to be supported by the baby shower loan, which will be used by families for nearly HUF 1670 billion by the end of next year. This amount of up to HUF 10 million per family can help Hungarian children to be born and grow up in quality homes in combination with the facilities provided by the HUF 380 billion home creation programme. Unfortunately, there are also children who are not allowed to grow up in families. This is why the government has decided on the priority support for single-parent families, while simplifying and speeding up the recovery of alimony and making it more efficient. Ladies and gentlemen, The coronal virus epidemic has raised the government's awareness and responsibility for special support for single-parent families where one parent unfortunately lost his life. The minimum monthly amount of 24 250 HUF increases from 1 January to more than HUF 50,000 per month to help these families restart. I trust that this, together with the support of the foundation that the President of the Republic and his dear wife have brought to life, will at least be able to provide financial support to all of them. The support of the family for us Christian democrats is, of course, also the support of the older generation. For this reason, HUF 230 billion was allocated in the budget to the second stage of the 13th month pension and to the payment of the pension premium next year. It is very important for all of us that the government will provide a record amount of resources for health care next year, which will exceed this year by HUF 769 billion. Next year's budget also covers the first and second phase of the three-year wage development of doctors working in basic and specialised care last year, as well as the further increase in wages for health professionals. Dear Parliament, After all, the question arises as to how these truly significant expenditures affect deficits and public debt. As I have said, and as the Secretary of State has given special emphasis to this, the government is expecting a deficit-to-GDP deficit target of 5.9 per cent next year, which, in particular, cannot be considered to be low in terms of expected economic growth. The Fiscal Council has also indicated that there could be a greater scope for reducing the deficit. However, recovery from the crisis does not require austerity, but an incentive, supportive fiscal policy, which, of course, involves increased public spending. The practice that has been followed since 2010 is also clear in this respect: fiscal stimulus should not lead to an increase in public debt. In this context, it is important to note that in recent years Hungarian debt has decreased by more than 10 percentage points, from 80% of GDP in 2010 to 65%. As we have seen in other European economies as a result of the coronal virus epidemic, this rate has risen, but this year it has started to decline, with debt falling to 79.9 percent of GDP this year and 79.3 percent next year. The constitutional obligation to reduce the sovereign debt indicator is therefore fulfilled, the revenue and expenditure estimates of the bill are well-founded and can be achieved, and the State Audit Office of Hungary's report on the fulfilment of public tasks is sufficient. The report also underlines that the central reserves are sufficient to cover other expenditure risks and exceptional measures related to the start-up of economic recovery, economic security and disease control tasks, as well as other expenditure risks and exceptional measures that arise during the year. Ladies and gentlemen, Based on what has been said, it can be concluded that the budget submitted by the government for 2022 is capable of relaunching our country's economy and life, and that our country is one of the winning countries of the new world economic era after the epidemic. The budget reflects the fact that families and children are the real future of a nation, but also shows that pensioners, working people and businesses that employ them can always count on government support. The opinion of the State Audit Office confirms that the draft budget law 2022 is sound and complies with the legislative requirements defining budgetary planning. On this basis, on behalf of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I propose that it be adopted. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-20-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We also have a preliminary speaker, Ms Zita Gurmai, Hungarian Socialist Party. [[9.00]]
u2021-05-20-11	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. The chapter on local governments in next year's budget is characterised by degradation and revenge. There may be some growth in one way or another, but this is only an illusion, because remember, you said that next year there is a 3 percent inflation plan. If we add to this the decline in the forint's exchange rate, unfortunately we can say that the value of unchanged subsidies compared to last year is a decreasing amount. Plus, there are places where you can see a step backwards. For example, the amount spent on the programme of modern cities. In 2020 there were 135 billion forints, and now there will be only one third, 50 billion forints. It is not difficult to see from this that Fidesz has renounced the development of settlements, at least as far as opposition-led municipalities are concerned. This includes the result of the municipal elections two years ago, as Fidesz lost it, and now they're taking revenge on the municipalities. It says that the local government figure called the solidarity contribution was raised from HUF 43 billion in 2019 to almost three times HUF 129.8 billion. The 40 percent of the amount received from the car tax is also lost to municipalities, which means a loss of HUF 35 billion. They also punish people by halving the business tax, as they could use this money to develop settlements. Of course, the Fidesz municipalities are compensated, but many opposition-led settlements, including Tatabánya, have not received any compensation to offset the losses. Yet, the people of the city have received countless promises about developments other than government, and then nothing has come of it. I think the Fidesz government has a lot of debt to the people of Tatabánya, and now it's time to cash in. The most important ones include financing the temporary accessibility of the Tatabánya railway station. In the last ten years, it has been said many times by your politicians that there will be money for the complete renovation of the railway station and the Consum. They pour the new billions into the handball hall, but there was no money to make it safe and easy for the elderly, the mothers, to get to the platforms, and not to have to take the stairs in a stroller. It's a shame and inhumane! It has also been said from your side as a promise that the municipal part of the road and railway project connecting the towns of Bánhida and Sárberek will be taken over. If one forint has not been returned to the municipality of Tatabánya, at least in this project I could help! The people of Tatabánya also rightly expect an ex post payment of HUF 1.38 billion which they already received from the government in December 2020, but not Tatabánya. I ask you to consider this amendment and to accept that the Tatabánans feel that you are here for them. My other amendment concerns the region, to be exact, the city of Tata. Here, too, several improvements are timely. I would describe what these are: one of them is the opening of the reconstruction of the section of the Budapest-Hegyeshalom 1 main road between Bicske-Tata and the construction of the southern bypass section of Highway 1 Tata. In these cases, the necessary changes to the planning plan have already been made. There would also be a need to support the renovation of local roads in a similar design as the previous TEUT tender, and to increase and extend the application envelope for local transport aid to local authorities in the area of cost accounting for inter-urban flights. Since Tatán alone represents HUF 5 billion in local road renovation delays under the Orbán government, I believe that the request of the Tata people is also appreciated and worthy of support. In addition, I also tabled amendments to the preparation of the northeastern bypass road Hajdúnánás and to the renovation of the 16 km section of road 471 between Nyírbátor and Nyírmeggyes. I'm confident that I'll find understanding ears this year. In Nagykanizság, I have proposed long-planned improvements such as the renovation of inland roads and the water tower, the implementation of the southern bypass road, the launch of the rehabilitation programme in downtown or the construction of a new swimming pool in the city. With all due respect, I would like to ask you to be kind enough to support my amendments to the municipalities. Then I'd like to move to another area. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. who's busy right now. For ten years, Fidesz has lied about the state of health in Hungary, but the epidemic has shown the truth. Since March 2020, it has been clear to everyone that Fidesz has put Hungarian health care on the ground. Turns out there aren't enough doctors and there aren't enough nurses, funding hospitals isn't enough, and the system is wasteful. The long waiting lists of kilometers, the absence of treatment for other diseases during the epidemic, and the first mass vaccination weekend, which failed, also indicate the inadequacy of the Fidesz health government. And the overload of doctors and nurses was even added by the Orbán government to the fact that in the midst of the raging epidemic, almost 5,000 doctors and nurses were simply driven away from public care. Plus, Fidesz doesn't want to correct mistakes, it wants to hide them. Independent press has been banned from the hospital in order not to find out what the real situation is in today's Hungarian health care. And doctors and nurses banned from the declaration are being held back by secret wiretap and surveillance to tell the truth. In these circumstances, it is almost a miracle that Hungarian health care is still working. This miracle is created by dedicated and self-sacrificing Hungarian health workers. I would also like to express my deepest gratitude and thanks to them. I think it is the least we can do now to ensure the best possible conditions for healers and patients. This is what led me to do when I submitted a number of amendments to the budget health chapter. The first is related to St. Barbara's Hospital in Tatabánya, and this is related to Tibor Nunkovics. Since the merger of the health institutions in Tatabánya and Tata, the financial burden and capacity needs of the institution have increased; its debt, I think, could be a waste of time, Mr Secretary of State. This has been further enhanced by the fact that this institution has been designated in Komárom-Esztergom County for the treatment of coronal viral infections. The staff of the institution literally suffered from this period, as many of them became ill, and a nurse working in the hospital passed away 20 years ago, leaving his wife and daughter behind. This situation was exacerbated by the fact that the Fidesz government also blackmailed the hospital workers in Tatabánya in connection with the medical service and, as a result, the institution was pushed to the limit of its inability to function. Because of the Fidesz government, all the civil servants in the emergency department of St. Barbara's Hospital have resigned. Several left radiology, including the head of the department, and the head of the department in cardiology, apart from the chief of medicine, there were only two residents. A lot of nurses left the psych ward, too. The only way to remedy all this was to transfer doctors from Tata, where, of course, there were problems with care. With an adequate financial reserve, this operational crisis situation could have been avoided, or at least I think it could have been reduced. I believe that with a larger, one-time, HUF 1.2 billion, it would be possible to stabilise the situation of St. Borbála Hospital in Tatabánya in the long term. This assistance would also be useful to the institution because it is reported that the planned development will in all likelihood avoid the construction of the medical pool, which was still included in the previous plans. My proposal for an amendment could also remedy this. Please accept that this amount will be transferred to a more important, life-saving area instead of government communication. The other institution where there is something to be done is László Elek Hospital in Orosház. I also have a bond with the county of Peace, since my mother was born there. [[9.10]] This hospital provides health care to almost a third of the population of Békés County, about 100,000 people, and this centre is the same. Since the 1968 handover, only in the second half of the nineties was a comprehensive reconstruction, which served to preserve and repair the hospital building. Since then, however, almost a quarter of a century has passed, which is significantly felt by the institution. The Central Technology Block, which was transferred in 2016, resulted in an increase in the hospital's energy use of roughly one-and-a-half times compared to the estimated zero energy consumption. This is only partly offset by the solar panels installed in the meantime, which is, of course, useful. Gas boilers currently providing heating and the entire heating system are outdated, not cost-effective at all. Obstacles due to rain drainage and roof insulation are regular leaks, which, of course, also affect artificial capital. Bird carcasses in the ventilation system are a serious hygiene problem. The openings of the hospital in Orosháza are not suitable for thermal insulation or patient safety. The facade of the hospital building falls with fistfuls of concrete, so repairing the building and external thermal insulation are essential only to prevent the risk of accidents. There's a very significant basis for refurbishing hospitals at the Ministry of the Interior. I think it would be worth considering that not only painting, but also fixing them. Only a few of the wards have air conditioning and global warming, which is what Vice-President Latorcai said is important. In recent years, extreme heat waves, i.e. insane heat, have become increasingly common in recent years. This poses a serious risk for elderly chronic patients. That's why the air conditioning of the entire building can't keep you waiting. The HUF 2.5 billion required to correct these conditions would represent only 2.5 percent of public media support, which I think is a negligible item, especially in the light of the fact that the current errors and deficiencies pose a threat to the safety of patients and healers, so please accept my amendments. In conclusion, I would like to talk about another matter, if I may, my fellow Members, which is clearly linked to the coronal virus epidemic, this blood donation, if you give blood, will give birth. For this reason, Ágnes Kunhalmi, co-chairman of the MSZP, presented a proposal for a resolution in respect of which I am confident that all Members of Parliament will support it. This is basically about getting every volunteer blood donor over 65 years of age who can prove at least a hundred blood donations for 50,000 HUF a month's pension supplement. I think it's important because we need a lot more blood right now. These people are really doing everything they can to give blood. I would also like to thank all the blood donors for the sacrifice they did during the coronal virus epidemic. So, once again, I would like to ask my fellow members of the Government, with respect, that my amendments tabled both in the local government and in the health care sector, which I have not submitted alone, but which we have submitted together, be so kind as to consider. I've marked the source of the source where it can be taken from. I think that instead of propaganda, we should focus on the real improvement of people's living conditions. I would like to thank you, Mr President, and my fellow Members here, with all due respect, for listening. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2021-05-20-12	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. The next speaker is Mónika Bartos, representative of Fidesz.
u2021-05-20-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, In my speech yesterday as a member of the Defence and Police Committee, I highlighted that the values that the government intends to protect and create, and the budget assigns very serious resources to them as support for families, support for jobs, re-launching Hungary in the field of the economy, protecting communities, well, this will be effective if we can protect our country against external threats. This is why it is very important that we also have the resources to curb mass illegal migration and to curb terrorism, and it is therefore outstanding that the Hungarian government also provides important financial resources in the areas of police and defence. At the same time, I also pointed out that these objectives will be effective if we work closely with not only neighbouring third countries, but also with countries that are issuing countries and where irregular migrants start. I am Vice-President of the Hungarian National Group of the Interparlamental Union and participated in several international conferences. Based on my own experience and talking to other delegates, even representatives from developing countries, I see that people do not want to leave their homeland, they do not want to go on the road, but they want to get along there. As a result, for example, the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and their achievement have shown that by joining forces and grouping resources where we help where there is trouble, we can help, because together we have achieved outstanding results in reducing malaria, reducing the number of mothers who died of child bed fever and in infant and child mortality. The Hungarian Helps program is connected to this current because we help where the problem arises, which operates on the basis of a unique humanitarian model, so it does not maintain an independent and costly international organizational structure, but helps in crisis zones with the involvement of local churches and credit organizations. This model means that we do not need to spend very substantial amounts on operating costs, but that we can provide fast and effective assistance in regions where this is needed. The program has been operational since 2017, and since then we have been able to help over 100,000 people. Until April 2021, the total amount of aid granted amounted to HUF 20 billion, and this year, too, HUF 3.2 billion, and the following year, 2022, too. I would just like to mention a few examples to you, where we have achieved outstanding results. One of the examples is, indeed, because many cities, settlements or communities could be mentioned in the municipality of Telskuf, where thousands of families driven away by the Islamic State were able to return to their homes. Since then, this Iraqi settlement has been referred to as the daughter of Hungary. Besides Telskuf, we have also been able to contribute to the reconstruction of many other Iraqi settlements. Then mention is the Virgin Mary School in Erbil, Kurdistan, Iraq, where we help children of not only Christian but also other religions to receive proper education. Indeed, it is not just Christians, since we also supported the Iraqi Yazid community, who has suffered genocide by the Islamic State, by launching projects to help rehabilitate victims of mass rape, and to contribute to the development of a decayed infrastructure with very significant damage. Similarly, within the framework of the Hungarian Helps program, we were able to help twenty thousand Syrian Christian families of different denominations to stay in their homeland by developing housing, church and educational infrastructure. [[9.20]] The Holy See has launched a very important program called Open Hospitals, which Hungary also supports. Within the framework of this programme, we will launch humanitarian and health projects in Syria and provide funding for the operation of three Syrian health institutions for one year. We used to say that people who give fast give twice. We did so on 4 August 2020 as we were able to provide EUR 1 million of emergency aid to the Lebanese Maronite Church's charity mission in 20 hours, that is, within 20 hours, within a day. So we could be there quickly, right after the trouble, and we could do better. The initiative entitled "The Christian Youths" is also helping a number of young people in Hungary at the moment, with 170 people getting the right knowledge and returning to their home countries to strengthen the communities there. We can say that faith has a preservation force, and this is not only true in a spiritual sense, because a community that is organized around a temple, listens to its members, can provide them with better support and thus save lives. This is also true in countries where many religious communities and many times Christian communities are threatened and attacked. But the conservation force of the community is also true in our country: within the framework of the Hungarian village, we invest a great deal of resources in supporting, strengthening, developing and rebuilding church communities; but also the communities are strengthened and supported by the programme "Modern Cities" or the funds spent on cultural value-saving investments. For when we are talking about a community, we are talking about the fabric of society, families, friendly societies, religious congregations, sports teams, local communities are all the foundations of our society, and they can help people, we can count on these communities, they can belong to them, and they can belong to them. We have seen the example of this saving force now during the pandemic. I thank the Government of Hungary for focusing on the very important resources, not only financial resources, but also intellectual and spiritual resources, for building a community. But we can see that this is manifest not only in words but also in actions, and this is also seen in the 2022 budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-20-14	Thank you very much, Mónika Bartos. The next pre-notified speaker was Klára Dobrev, Member of the European Parliament, who spoke about the pulpit. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-05-20-15	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. I welcome everyone who listens to this debate here in this room or at home, in front of the TV. Even because I have learned and taught that, as the celebration of democracy is the election, so is the debate on the budget. You know, I've been teaching finance law at the Faculty of Law of ELTE for years, and when it comes to budgetary law and public finances, I've seen in my students that it's not exactly understood, it's so far away from them, they're 21-22 years old; what's it got to do with me, they asked me. And when we started to look at the budget law in detail, it was still on paper, thick, thousands of pages, later on on computer, and we started looking at chapters, titles, subtitles, appropriations, and it became easy for them to understand that the budget was about their lives, about how they were going to renew, say, the high school gym in their former high school, or about how much they were going to have a scholarship or their tuition, about how much pension their parents and grandparents were going to get, and how they would have enough money to redecorate their apartment. So, the budget is about our lives. But there was a more important message that I always wanted to give to my students that the budget was even more. You, ladies and gentlemen, are sitting in this Parliament, in this house, and I am going on, because many hundreds of years ago, there were brave people who told the governor that it was enough that you couldn't spend the country's money freely on what you wanted; they told the governor that you had to control it. Yeah, going back to the Magna Charter, or rather around 1265 when they first let the public in the meeting. That's why Parliament was established, which is why you're sitting here to always and always control the governor's arbitrarys. Well, not a lot of people here have anything to boast about right now. Not for 133 people. For years, you have voted and voted for the budget to know that almost no limits are imposed on the governor's self-consciousness; you know perfectly well that you are desecrating one of the most important acts of parliamentarism, the budget law itself. They've been giving the government authority for years, and they're planning to do it now, spending hundreds of billions of forints without knowing what they're going to spend it on. There are 233 billion in general reserves or security reserves and nearly 550 billion investment funds. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's terrible!]] And the worst part is, unfortunately, they might know what this money's going to do. Because at the end of last year, for example, 1,400 billion were spent in a month without reason or reason, but really, it's messed up for all sorts of investments. Without your permission. I can also say, ladies and gentlemen, that 133 of you give a blank cheque to the government every year. I don't think that's parliamentary. I have another general problem with the budget before I get to the specifics of how you will adopt this budget in the April-May area. We don't even have the base data of the previous year from an economic point of view, it's completely nonsense! The State Audit Office has not yet drawn up the discharge law, and in the next six months, Hungarian economic processes and international conditions will change so much. So I just told you that you guys give the government a blank check, and then you sign this blank check with your eyes blindfolded. Now, this isn't a celebration of parliamentarism. So I can tell you, and I promise the voters that in 2022, after the election, with an elegant handshake, we will throw this budget where it belongs, into the trash can. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Family support.]] This budget will not be the only one, because there will be, say, the Paks loan agreement, the fund of the Fudan University, the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, and I could tell you more. We're gonna need a big paper basket, and I'm gonna look at my opposition fellow Members here. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai nods.]] We may have to bring a container, but we'll figure it out. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Family tax relief. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Be quiet!]] Because there is no story, not only does this budget lack its democratic legitimacy, its professionalism is missing, and if we keep going, it's pretty amazing what's in it. Then I'll talk about what's not in there later. The 783 billion forints of blank cheques I have already mentioned, or this we have no idea what will happen, or, unfortunately, we know that they will spend it without reason and reason again, I see that, for example, we will spend 100 billion forints on the lying public media next year. Probably more than that, because I know very well that, hidden among the appropriations, there will be a billion or two forints for this hatred. And, of course, I could continue the line. On the lake and other items, nearly 300 billion forints for sports support. And before they think that this will serve exactly the purpose of making unsanitary Hungarians play more sports and live healthier: unfortunately, we have learned in the last ten years that this money, of which hundreds of billions of forints, will become a luxury investment again. [[9.30]] I really can't understand with any sense that when a sports hall was built on the edge of the small village, a football stadium was built more precisely, when it already has a covered runway, when it already has a boiler room with a Makovecz style, when it already has a small lake with a large island or a large lake with a small island, God knows what it is, then it must be spent in any way on a football stadium lawn sunbathing system. Really? In 2021-22, the effects of the pandemic and the economic crisis? Is that what you're spending money on? I can't believe it. Is that really the most important thing for you? Of course, I could continue with the church support of more than HUF 50 billion, which does not yet include what we are taking across the border for church and sports support, the 270 billion of Paks, which I have already mentioned, is going to the same place as the budget, the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which we do not know exactly how much, because they put it in a big hat again, and the communication that we all like, 30 billion, is planned for. Here's the rusty prick that's gonna double that at the end, because we really need giant posters, because that's gonna stop every imaginary enemy. That's all that's happened hundreds of years ago. A few brave people told you to stop, not to let you spend our money all over the place, let's say, I don't know, on tournaments of knighthood at that time, not worth a lot of stadiums and World Hunting Exhibition today; to spend our money, I don't know, wars, today's muzzle room, which, by the way, is the form of the billboard. We won't let you spend our money, I don't know, on furs and jewelry, and today, on luxury watches and luxury clothes, yachts, airplanes instead of carts. Nothing's changed. So we have one task: to return the celebration of parliamentarism and return the budget holiday to Hungarian citizens. What we've collected in the last few days is nearly 2,000 billion forints in the budget. Two thousand billion forints of total support. If only part of this could be spent on meaningful purposes, this would be a normal, viable European Hungary. Because you know, ladies and gentlemen, the biggest mistake with this budget isn't even your democratic legitimacy, not even your incompetence, although it hurts a lot, but even what's in it, but what's missing from it or who's missing from it. And those who lack it are the many Hungarys. I can put this budget in one sentence: 133 people with fidesz vote in favour, so that the few, the fidesz oligarchs, can bring many billions more home next year. That's what it's about. You know who it's not about? Let me tell you some stories. You'd hear it if you could talk to people a lot more. For example, it does not mention the woman who works as a waitress, or more precisely, she is an all-rounder in a small restaurant in Budapest, raising both her children alone. The reason we got in touch and started talking was because he rescued himself and his children from an abusive marriage, an abusive family relationship. It's worth a single mass over the last ten years what you've done to the Istanbul Convention and its associates. We'll talk about this separately. So, he was running away from an abusive relationship, and he's been living in a flat for years. Of course, like many others, he lost his job during the crisis. It's been over a year now. For more than a year, this woman has been trying to keep her two 11- or two-year-old children out of the family allowance. I can tell you to try to raise two children out of 29 600 forints. And perhaps he received some kind of aid from the municipality here in Budapest. Over a year. Well, he's missing the budget, for one. What I can tell you is that in April 22, after the elections, we will double the family allowance you did not raise ten years ago, and for those who are single or have a disabled child, three times. I'll tell you how much it's gonna cost, because I've calculated, calculated everything, and I'm still a financial lawyer. It will cost about 400 billion forints. We didn't even spend half the money you threw away in November last year, and we've already made life easier for thousands of families and thousands of children. Then I missed out on the pensioners, and I feel like they're being treated as second-class citizens, and they're gonna get an Elisabeth voucher before the election, or they're gonna get a drip for it. Yes, pensioners whose pensions have been stagnating for ten years now say you are falling, I say, because the inflation that raises pensions is not in a thank-you relationship with the increase that pensioners experience, because the basket does not look the same and does not look the same as the rate of inflation. Last summer we were in Pope's family, my mother-in-law was a papal, and I had some things to do. We ran into an ex-coworker on the street, and he's approaching 80. He worked at a textile factory for three shifts his whole life, then at home cooking, washing, cleaning, raising children, and now he's retired. She was close with Mama Katus, and she went to the senior club together. He tells me at ten o'clock in the morning, near the main square, that his days are spent getting on the bus or walking around Pope's food chains, you know, there are quite a few, I don't know, Tesco, Lidl, Spar, Aldi, God knows what's going on to collect food that he can buy cheaply because they're out of warranty. He worked three shifts his whole life. CHAPTER XXI 1st century, 2021, Hungary. And he smiled because on that day he was able to buy a chicken breast on sale, a chicken breast that expired on that day, because meat, by the way, could be bought once a week. And that made him happy! This makes a pensioner happy in Hungary, because he can buy chicken breasts for himself. I'm telling you in numbers. I'm telling you in numbers. In 2010, 4.6 percent of pensioners lived below the poverty line. Now ten years later, as the world economy is growing, as you claim, Hungary's economy is growing, ten years later 14.3 percent of pensioners live already [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] income poverty. The pension of our 600,000 retired countrymen is below the social minimum. We have to make this right, so in the next April, after the change of government, we will return the Swiss indexation, because that is what holds the country together and holds society together, and a one-off HUF 150,000 supplement, if you will, we will make amends to the pensioners. Not before the elections, as you do, but after the elections. That's a huge difference. It's also time that the overhead money you're used to saying doesn't serve the richest at last. Let us not be proud to support those who can fill two pools for the price of one, but to go to those who need them the most. Not the richest, but the honest Hungarians who would like to pay their normal electric bill and their water bill at the end of the month. Yes, I would like it to be free up to a certain level of consumption in Hungary, then much cheaper than today, and who has a pool, one, two, sauna, Jacuzzi, I don't know what he runs or has a huge house, and whether he has a right or a left, pay more. Because it's fair. I have already calculated it before I mention it: the addition to pensioners and the Swiss indexation would increase the budget by 450 billion, not even the reserve has been spent in full, and the fact that the most wealthy are not finally receiving the rent will cost about HUF 100 billion for the budget compared to what we are spending on it today. There's money, nearly 2,000 billion, and it would just be nice to spend it on people we can really count on in trouble. The taxi driver with whom I spent a little longer in Budapest traffic last week was also left out from the budget. We started talking about raising teenage boys, he has a 16-year-old son, I raised three teenage boys, and I think I've got another teenage boy in front of me. The conversation revealed that his wife had been depopulated eight years ago. [[9.40]] They inherited an apartment in a condo in Budapest, and he tried everything with a very high rent so that he could at least replace the windows. And what I can tell you is that he's the one who can't use a CSOK, who's been through everything, doesn't have a few million forints in his pillow pants, and all the banks are fired for not being able to pay. Well, he's not in the budget either. That is why I think that, for example, the panel programme should be extended to condominiums, and, most importantly, it should be possible to finally renovate this broken-down housing stock, which is in Hungary. On the one hand, to reduce people's rent and, on the other hand, because this is what the fight against climate change requires of us. This is what the new programme of the Green Hungary will require of us. And do you know how much this costs? If we were to renovate about half a million, five hundred thousand homes in the next four years, for which EU funding can also be given to a significant part of it, I also do not understand why it has not been used so far, then it would be about HUF 60 billion that the state would have to take over. I think if we're smarter, we're even less. There's a job here, there's a thing here, all that's missing from the budget. And I have to say a few sentences in the end about the most dramatic situation that's affecting all of us right now. Right or left, liberal or green, we are all people here in Hungary, Europe. How many times have we told each other that, oh, we're gonna fix everything, just health? That's one of the most important sentences. I used it a lot, too, and I admit to you, sometimes it seemed a bit of a cliché until last October, when death started walking around us. Over 30,000 of our countrymen's families are in mourning. There are thousands of people who can't live a full life either because of the consequences of Covid or because of the medical procedures that have failed. There's not much of a family that hasn't been touched, one way or another, this epidemic has made me think about a lot of things. But perhaps, what we have learned most from painful experience is that we can spend money on expensive medical devices, hospital renovations, equipment in 2021 and even in the year 22 - humans can heal. If we don't have enough doctors, nurses, we won't have enough workers, we won't have enough cleaners in hospitals or nurses, then thousands more people will die in Hungary than in other countries of Europe, in diseases that can be cured and survive. We've talked a lot about how many doctors and nurses leave the country almost every day for the last ten years. But do you know that I'm telling you that there are nearly 250,000 employees who have a degree in health professionals today, and there are only 107,000 of them working in health care? The other half is gone, I don't know, IKEA, Tesco-loader. We need to call back doctors who have fled abroad, and we need to call back to health care those who have left and are absent from health care or do not work in health care so that we know what a terrible shortage of workers is. Ten percent of nurses, 25 percent of midwives are missing, 13 percent of rescue officers, 1400 settlements have no general doctors. And it's only gonna get worse if we don't take much, much bigger steps. Of course, I see they panicked during the plague, but that's not enough. That's not enough. There is a systematic need to start thinking about rebuilding health care. I calculated that if we could lure 3,000 specialists, 500 GPs and nearly 9,000 employees back to health care in the next ten years, and I had already calculated the extra wage increase that would be needed, it would cost nearly HUF 160 billion more in the budget. And, you know, it's not a question, and we're not gonna start arguing about whether it's a lot or not. This budget must be thrown into the trash can because they did not understand what XXI was about. In the century, a successful, strong Hungary. It's about the people who live there. All they've been doing for ten years is constantly chasing numbers, and of course, the numbers are important, GDP is important, the general government deficit, the public debt, the balance of payments, inflation, as a development policy expert, that's what I've been doing. As a politician, I learned something else: that these are just numbers, 1, 2, zeroes, and behind the numbers are people in the country. Behind the numbers, there's the cab driver, there's the waitress, there's the pensioner, there's the nurse. And see wonder, those countries who understand that not only concrete, square stone, stadium, church, I don't know what to spend the money, spend it and pour it into people, but I translate it into: education, health, housing, a healthy environment, social security, in countries where they understand XXI. The challenge of the century began to be spent primarily on the people living there, to see wonder: the numbers also began to improve permanently. Because this is the 21st. In the century, competitiveness. And yes, I am sure that in April 2022, after we have defeated the Orbán system, we will prepare a budget and we will adopt a budget together with organisations, citizens, people that is capable of creating a united, solidarity-based, mutually-observing Hungary. Because this is what we call a Hungarian nation, and we will work on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2021-05-20-16	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Klára Dobrev. Péter Harrach, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also came forward in writing. [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, but before that, Mr. András Tállai, State Secretary.
u2021-05-20-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In the last 20 or a few minutes, we were able to hear a speech from a presidential candidate in the pre-election campaign. Well, there's a lot going on in Parliament, a lot of campaign speeches, and we've just heard the campaign speech of the wife of Ferenc Gyurcsány Klára Dobrev. [[Gergely Harvestó: He has a name, remember. The president's ringing the bell.]] In particular, the MEP highlighted what is not in this budget. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk about what he didn't say in his speech. He didn't say anything about programs, like the fact that the housing stock is bad, and it needs to be renewed that the current government may not know exactly what you're doing. This is exactly how it helps families, through the home creation program, with other benefits, so that young people can buy used apartments and renovate this used apartment. So the fact that you just realized how bad the housing stock in Hungary is is is a great thing, but the government has prevented you from thinking about it as well. He was critical of the health situation, but he said little about what the government had done to settle the wages of doctors and nurses. He did not mention that the 2022 budget contains nearly HUF 500 billion in wage settlement. Once again, it has revealed a problem that the current government is dealing with, and the current government is trying to solve it. Then he didn't talk about the taxi driver, either, that this taxi driver had, at this time of crisis, received a full tax reduction, and he didn't have to pay taxes. I understand you were talking about the cab driver's child, but, well, let's talk about the cab driver. The taxi driver was helped by this government by exempting him from paying taxes and contributions. [[9.50]] And then he didn't even talk about when he accidentally met the papal pensioner on the street, who was a friend of Aunt Katus, who was short of his pension, that he retired just when your husband, Ferenc Gyurcsány, was the Prime Minister. [[Intercoms from opposition lines. Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] , and it is precisely because of the regulation that was put in place at the time that his pension had become so low. But speaking of retired, are you serious? ! Are you serious that this government has left pensioners out of this budget? [[Intercom from opposition lines: That's right!]] He didn't leave it out of this budget, he didn't miss it at all. The last ten years have been about what your husband has never been able to achieve to preserve the real value of pensions. We have kept it every year in the last ten years, eleven, and you and your family have failed to manage it. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] You also need to know that when your husband was the Prime Minister and your family governed you because you've been in government, only now the wife wants to govern, and so far the husband has been governed. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai keeps interrupting. Nacsa Lőrinc: Calm down!]] You also forgot to tell me that you took away the 13th month's pension, by the way. [[Gergely Harvestó: But we gave it to you. You forgot that. The president's ringing the bell.]] Retired people. Now, of course, you would like to give this back in a great way, because you are giving two and a half million forints to two and a half million pensioners in Hungary, it is really a great thing, but let's not forget about those who are producing this source, what you want to give them; because you didn't talk about those who are working, who are workers, who are family. He spoke of only one example, but there are not one example, there are millions of families in Hungary who are raising children, who do have an advantage by receiving tax benefits because they want to work and work. You were talking about the people who need to be given, who are no longer able to work, or who are in a position to want to, but cannot do so. You come in the old-fashioned way to raise the family allowance, but you don't say that the price of this, raising the family allowance, is that the family tax allowance must then be abolished. [[Interventions from opposition lines: Why should I?]] It's gotta be erased. Are you serious about giving me $400 billion a year to raise family allowances, giving me $400 billion for a one-time pension supplement? Then you want to increase Hungary's debt to 100 or 200 percent. By the way, I believe you because your husband already did. [[Uproar, outbursts from opposition lines.]] And when they asked him what he spent it on, he said, please, for pensions and for raises. Is that what you want again? [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Lőrinc Ripper.]] That's impossible. By the way, I'd like to tell you that you've already made a family budget, not what you'd like to do in that budget. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] In this budget, it was necessary to take away the 13th month's wages for civil servants and civil servants, to take away the pension, to abolish the home creation programme and to borrow foreign currency. [[Crying out of opposition and pro-government lines. The president's ringing the bell.]] This was your program. They talked people into borrowing currency loans. Then, when the problem came, they forgot about these families, and in 2010, after the change of government, they had to deal with these problems, the problem of pensioners, the problem of families and the problem of foreign exchange credit or a significant increase in fees. So you've given a very sentimental speech, people, and I will help you, but remember that what you say has a history, a family history, that during exactly the time of your husband's Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány, what you said happened the opposite. That's what God saves us from. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-20-18	Thank you very much, Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State. The next speaker was Peter Harrach, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2021-05-20-19	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I am here for a budget debate, and I also feel that the speech of Mrs Ferenc Gyurcsány Klára Dobrev [[Lőrinc Nacsa to the intervention of Dr. Agnes Vadai: Why, are you ashamed?]] It was a campaign speech. The campaign speech contained the same elements as the opposition's speeches in Parliament and showed the same political culture in feminine orchestration. The political culture that has ruined Parliament's atmosphere because of the drastic opposition speeches has now appeared in a kind, feminine arrangement. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk about the budget we have ahead of us, the budget for the re-launch of the country. We know that in our individual lives, as well as in the life of the community, there are situations that cause us to be restrained and restricted. Just think that the loss of family income or the agony of a generation in front of us during a war period makes a person feel restrained and limited. But there are such events in the life of the community, and such was the pandemic. If we manage the period of restrictions well and find a way out, then we can go back to the preventive states, and here we are, we have a reboot budget ahead of us. The social area and the family chapter are important areas for us. But since it is true that the best social policy is good economic policy, a few words should at least be used as a signal for economic issues. The series of economic measures we have provided for the preservation of jobs and the cost-saving support of companies were crucial. For families, it was obviously a moratorium on repayments and wage increases that helped and, of course, a tax reduction. It should be mentioned that we have HUF 7300 billion available in the economic re-launch action plan. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk a little bit more about the budget's two areas. Support for families raising children, facilitate their home creation, support for large families is one area and the other is support for raising income, consider wage growth, tax reductions and the return of the 13th month pension already mentioned. In 2022 there is HUF 2780 billion available for family support, which represents 5 percent of GDP, which, I believe, is also significant in European comparison. Here, the new elements need to be mentioned in particular for such a budget, in particular for those under the age of 25, which will be introduced as of 1 January, and for the part of the 13th month pension that is due this year. But we also need to see that there are significant subsidies in the budget that are now only mentioned in the headlines: children's meals, for which there is HUF 87 billion; car support for large family members HUF 12.5 billion; free textbook support 13 billion; children's home care fee 43.8 billion; housing subsidies 382 billion;, Women's 40, this is also part of the pension system; family pension allowance 315.5 billion [[László Varju intervenes.]] and the tax relief of those under the age of 25 has been set at 140 billion. [[10.00]] What does the increase in wages mean in the last year or in the following year? In 2020, average earnings increased by 9.7 percent, and here we should mention that the health wage increase has increased the wages of doctors by two and a half times in two years, and will increase the caregivers in the same proportion to 22 times. And, of course, we should mention again the 13th month pension, which is HUF 160 billion in the following year, which is linked to the pension premium with your 68 billion. And if you look at the period after 2022, it is planned that wage increases can be set at 7-8 percent per year. I have just highlighted two areas of budget that are important to us. I believe that this entire budget must be preserved and voted for, because it supports Hungarian people, the Hungarian economy, and restores what is necessary in such a reboot, because we will leave behind a period of restraint that will give us the opportunity to return to the state that was before the pandemic. I believe that this budget must not be thrown out, but must be respected, because in this budget, too, we can see from the examples mentioned above, there is family support and support for the relaunching of the economy that cannot be spared, which must be kept, and which we hope this Parliament will vote for. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-20-20	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Harrach. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that those who have applied for or applied for a two-minute comment will be able to do so after the pre-scheduled speeches by Erzsébet Schmuck, István Vitányi, Bence Tordai, Imre Ritter and Tibor Bana. I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP.
u2021-05-20-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now evaluate the budget from the environmental side and present the LMP's comments and suggestions on this. We know that the central budget, its way of planning, its values and coherence clearly shows that the government is able to draw up a proposal for the use of public money that serves the well-being of society as a whole, while ensuring the environmental and economic conditions of this, in the spirit of sustainability. This, we know, is not an easy task, given the diverse needs, limited resources, the need to coordinate short- and long-term interests, and in particular it is not easy when the Covid epidemic has been paralyzing the country's normal functioning for almost a year and its effects on society and the economy are still very difficult to estimate. At the same time, such an epidemic, like economic and financial crises, acts as a kind of shock therapy. We need to think about the reasons that led us here, how we were able to handle the situation, and what lessons can be learned from all of this for the future. Following the past period, we have actually reached conclusions that have been the principles of green policy for several decades, that only a healthy, creative society can adapt to changing circumstances, restore our operation and build the future. Therefore, everything needs to be done for education, health, social policy, housing, livelihoods, livable landscapes and liveable settlements, preparing society for the various challenges facing us, such as climate change, that in the long term we need a self-sufficient economy that meets real needs, which responds to the challenges of the age, so that we can eliminate a number of factors that affect health and the environment, which limit a sustainable green economy and are also vulnerable to the country. But we're already late, and we're on the wrong track because of the government's misguided policy. And yes, it has already been recognized worldwide that the natural environment and natural resources are the basis for our existence, and it must finally be recognised that the protection of nature and the environment by preserving countless and irreplaceable ecosystem services is in fact the protection of human life and the protection of family silver. The LMP called for a real green light last year, but instead we had to suffer a black, ominous turn of events, not only because of the epidemic, but also because the government wasted resources on self-serving, self-serving and often meaningless things, instead of trying to solve the most pressing problems and invest in a future for public welfare. Unfortunately, we have experienced this government, and we have seen this very well in recent weeks, that it really has a strategy for overcoming, it does not have a strategy for country building, and here I also refer to the creation of trust funds in the public interest. This budget, either in relation to what is expected or in relation to previous years, which has also been poorly planned for years, is even less likely to fulfil its real function. This budget is characterised by headings of chapters hidden, missing or unrecognizable, covering the substance and explanations on hundreds of pages. There's no way to read where the country will be able to get ahead of it. The government is playing to give Parliament a blank cheque by voting on this budget. This is particularly dangerous now, when the revenues of the central budget appear to be uncertain, inflation seems to be getting out of hand, and public debt is quoting the height of the 2010s. The budget documents have so far shown at least in relative detail what the government is planning to spend on from the central budget. At best, it can be speculated, just as it will be when the budget closes, about what all this money has gone to, where, for what purpose and with whom it has been used. The government has changed tactics, and it's best that almost no one can see through the financial maneuvers. There is no chance that a national idea of recovery, adaptation and development is combined, particularly because the government is making plans for the use of the Hungarian annual central budget, the five-year recovery and adaptation plan and the seven-year EU support framework, without a clear vision. Ladies and gentlemen, They do not allocate resources to goals, but seek the easiest way to use resources for their own sake. Well, let's turn it around. If it is no longer written, we are not yet bound by the small details of ourselves, by elected representatives, or by specific measures, such as environmental and nature protection as a whole, in a single heading, or by how much we will have in particular, we are obliged to ask here and now. [[10.10]] What about the remediation of pollution as a ticking chemical bomb, the removal of asbestos in buildings requiring lives, the substantial implementation of the developed yet government-evacuated national air load reduction programme, the preparation of environmental health to address new risks as a result of climate change, and the management of expected exceptional weather situations? What about adaptable forest management, soil protection, when it is known precisely that the present production structure of Hungarian agriculture is unsustainable, our existing forests are dying, the chances of planting new ones are reduced due to drought, and that our production areas are losing their productive capacity year after year because of the farming in the wrong direction. What about the water retention projects in the hills and plains, instead of which the government is only trying to meet the needs of the oligarchs in violation of the public interest? Where is the promotion of sustainable landscape management delayed? Where will our settlements be more livable if the government loses us than gives us the chance to cope with the consequences of climate change, and that every year we lose a lot more relatives than the victims of the current epidemic, even though government statistics have kept quiet, for example due to air pollution or unmanageable and persistent heat waves? The planned expenditure is far from proportional, for example, in the area of the reconstruction of water utilities, where some HUF 1500-3000 billion is missing in the medium term. When, what does this money come from in time? Moreover, the government is still not willing to lift the water utility tax on service providers. While a series of urgent measures are needed, the government again calls for Paks II. He spends 270 billion forints on his support and capital increase. However, the proper uploading of the Central Nuclear Financial Fund has not done anything for years, such as the disposal of small, medium and high-activity waste will again be at the expense of public funds. And hold on a second. What budget is it where HUF 14 billion is allocated to support car-motor sport when the government plans a total of HUF 10 billion for regional development tasks and HUF 35 billion for energy and climate policy modernisation? It's simply unacceptable and shocking! It is also difficult to understand that while more attention should be paid to the protection of our natural values at risk of climate change, budget support for national parks and boards will be reduced. You talk about the preservation and importance of biodiversity, but when resources should be spent on this, whether from EU sources or from home, it does not appear there. That's the danger. It also shows that you only paint yourself green. Perhaps it is not a coincidence that the support of the Agricultural Ministry, which is undermining the environment many times, is one of the lowest of all wallets. Then let us consider how little there is for environmental protection. All these were, of course, the most fundamental questions, to which virtually no answers were received from the draft. Such a draft budget always says everything about a government's economic, social and environmental policy. But in addition to the main signs, consider some interesting examples that are included in the justification! While the government has now given green light to the large drainage of both groundwater and surface water for irrigation purposes, on the other hand, what is the implementation practice of this plan proudly states that under Title 17 of the National Earth Management Centre, it is assigning 4 or 4 persons to carry out the tasks of professional authority in relation to the licensing of water facilities for irrigation in agriculture. Let us think about what those four people will be able to do and how well they can really control the issue of appropriate aquatic rights. That's basically not enough for anything, and you're telling me everything. And we have been saying again for years that the 262 people operating by the national park directorates note this, and the capacity of 262 people in nature protection guard service is limited. After all, their territorial competence extends to the entire administrative territory of the country. Their activities include a protected area of national importance established by specific legislation of nearly 850 000 hectares, the conservation, conservation, damage and endangerment of the 2 million hectares of Natura 2000 sites that overlap. Dear House, I ask: why is there no source for this if we consider it necessary and important to preserve natural values? Dear House, This budget shows that, not only does the government not want to take a green turn, but it is simply pointing back on sustainability, climate protection and environmental issues. This kind of incomprehension, insensitiveness and cynicism is unworthy of the Hungarian people. Hungarian people have a constitutional right, you might say, to a healthy environment, to preserve natural resources and values in the present and future. This budget, on the other hand, ignores all of this and therefore violates the interests of Hungary. Therefore, LMP will not be able to support this unfounded, unthinkable and irresponsible draft. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-05-20-22	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. The next announced speaker was Mr István Vitányi, Member Fidesz.
u2021-05-20-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In my speech, I would like to go through two areas, to be more precise. First, I would like to talk about the budget of the judicial authorities, and secondly, I would like to describe the possibilities of rural Hungary in the light of the 2022 budget. Justice is an independent, independent branch of power, which Aristotle and Cicero have already emphasized in their works. One of the pledges of independence of judges is that they are not financially and existentially vulnerable. As in the past, this requirement is met by the proposal for a budget law before them, which provides the necessary funds to cover the expenses of ordinary courts under a separate chapter. It is essential to mention the other main contributor to the judiciary, the prosecutor's office, which is not an independent authority, but, as our Fundamental Law states, is an independent and independent constitutional institution. One guarantee of independence in the case of the prosecutor's office is that there is budgetary provision in separate chapters. Ladies and gentlemen, The continuous development of the judicial organisation system is of particular economic and social importance in terms of both human resources and infrastructure. The budget for the chapter for 2022 includes the financial coverage of human resources to improve the operational standards of the courts, to achieve the objectives of improving efficiency achieved so far, and the material conditions necessary to improve the effectiveness of the case-law work. Among the investments planned to start in 2022, which have been going on for several years, we can find, for example, the complete reconstruction and expansion of the buildings of the Szeged Tribunal and the Szeged District Court, for which HUF 1.3 billion and the first phase of the total reconstruction of the buildings of the Miskolc Tribunal and the Miskolc District Court, to which the government intends to dedicate HUF 150 million. HUF 258 million will be available for the necessary IT developments resulting from the amendment of the restructuring law and HUF 144.8 million will be available for the development of a single legal register. In 2022, the next rate of the increase in the judicial salary base will amount to HUF 11.6 billion, while the increase in the salary of the prosecutor's staff will amount to HUF 5.6 billion. [[10.20]] It can therefore be concluded that the 2022 budget also provides both courts and prosecutors with the necessary funds for high-quality work and improvements in working conditions. Dear House, Now I would like to move on to a project close to my heart, the Hungarian village program. I would like to point out in advance that the Hungarian village programme is a package of measures defining social policy, national policy, development policy and demographic objectives, which in all its sub-programmes fully expresses the government's commitment to the development of Hungarian settlements, especially in this case the development of small settlements. The Hungarian village program is unprecedented, as since the change of regime, the first important programme launched to raise rural Hungary and small settlements is entirely from Hungarian sources. Based on the experience gained so far, it can be said that the challenges raised by small settlements are constantly being responded to, and the government is also trying to create a legal environment in such a way that the Hungarian village programme allows small settlements to develop even more rapidly, so that rural life is not between quality of life but between lifestyles. In my constituency, almost all settlements of the 4th constituency of Hajdú-Bihar County have developed in recent years. The hardworking rural communities have been very successful in the development so far, so they deserved the high-quality services. I am proud to say that 37 out of 41 settlements in the Berettyóújfalu constituency have successfully applied for different health, infrastructure, ecclesiastical or local identity developments. The other 4 couldn't apply because they were settlements over 5,000 inhabitants. I welcome the government's HUF 93 billion budget for the Hungarian village programme in the 2022 economic re-launch action plan, whose broad support system now relies on four pillars, since from 2021, the market players in the villages will have access to support. In this framework, it provided HUF 48 billion in support of the small village shops, while HUF 25 billion in support of the business start-up programme for rural micro-enterprises. Dear House, One of the most outstanding parts of the program is the village CSOK, which is a motivation and also provides additional support for couples who think about settling and buying property, who want to start a family and raise children in a rural environment, not in a urban environment. It should be noted that from 1 January this year, the circle of assisted settlements has expanded by 192, so that support can be obtained in 2678 settlements, which account for more than 93% of the settlements of our country of less than 5 thousand inhabitants. In many respects, I could also commend the programme, which will make a significant contribution to the economic development of the countryside and increase its population retention. It is good that we will have more resources for the most important areas this year, as we have seen each year. As a representative of the Bihar region, I continue to strive to increase the quality of living of people living in our region with the tools available to me and the opportunities offered by the Hungarian village programme. Dear Parliament, I don't want to multiply the word any more. To sum up, I believe that the draft budget of 2022 will help to overcome the negative effects of the trying times caused by the epidemic, and will significantly ease the burden on the shoulders of Hungarians. At times when there is a crisis all over the world, it doesn't matter what means we use. In closing, allow me to quote the thoughts of an excellent statesman, our late Prime Minister, the Nobleman of Bihar, István Tisza; it begins with a quote: "We are thrown into the pan of world history, and it depends on our own weight how the pan will produce. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-20-24	Thank you very much, Congressman István Vitányi. The next scheduled speaker was Mr Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue.
u2021-05-20-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, After submitting the draft budget for Fidesz 2022, I already gave my opinion on this. This budget aims to further increase the wealth and power of the 1 percent budget, the Fidesz elite. And, of course, it is also an election budget, because next year is an election year, but it serves the interests of 99 percent only in so far as Mihály Varga and his colleagues believe that it can serve to save the power of 1 percent. In the general debate on the budget, Timea Szabó and Tamás Mellár have already presented their position in their speech, so I would not generally like to look at what this Fidesz draft budget of 2022 means for the future, but my constituency, the parliamentary single constituency of 4 in Budapest, means the II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. From the point of view of the inhabitants of the district, from the perspective of the citizens of Buda, I will tell you what next year will bring, if everything goes according to Fidesz's plans and what we propose instead, what the measures would be, what would be the budgetary amendments that would really serve the interests of 99 percent in Buda. First of all, it must be said that this budget is based on the principles of revenge and dictatorship. We see that Viktor Orbán and Mihály Varga swore revenge against settlements whose inhabitants did not vote for the governors they designated in the municipal elections in 2019. And the thing is, in Budapest and Buda, the second one. and III. Viktor Orbán's men also failed in the district. The power of the people of power has been swept away by the power of the people, and the anti-democratic, arbitrary leaders who are trying to control the fate of Hungary today cannot bear it. So they take revenge on the citizens, avenge their votes, avenge the districts, avenge the settlements, but the fact is that they take revenge not only on settlements that choose an independent or opposition mayor, but also on all Hungarian settlements. The enemy of the Orbán regime that centralizes power is the local government; its enemy is all that creates the possibility of wise decisions that have been made locally. But let's look at this in the language of numbers. Fidesz withdrew approximately HUF 80 billion from Budapest this year [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] , Annex II and III. The Fidesz government took approximately HUF 7 billion together from the district. And let us not believe that only the metropolitan city or the better-mode settlements are being punished, because the latest news is that the development of the most disadvantaged settlements will take away HUF 143 billion, because Viktor Orbán will not allow the Union to control the use of the funds allocated here. (Lőrinc Nacsa: It's not true!) By giving up the larger half of the recovery fund, the Fidesz government also agreed that there would be no money for the catching up settlements program... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Credit...]] There will be no money... - 143 billion forints were taken from the most miserable settlements, and, yes, 80 billion were taken from Budapest and about 7 billion from the II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. District. That's why I'm saying this is a budget for revenge and dictatorship. Compared to this, it would be necessary to have a budget for reparation and inclusion. It is necessary to make amends to the citizens of Hungary, to make amends to the Hungarian municipal authorities, which serve the quality of life of local residents, because there may not have been a government that spent so little in such an amazing debt to protect people during the crisis. In Hungary, the government debt increased by HUF 5500 billion last year alone, and this trend continues, and it is only a few ten billion forints that have gone to create people's income security, income replacements and wage replacement subsidies last year and this year, and this attitude will not be changed again. The crisis was also used to fill the pockets of the Oligarchs near Fidesz with hundreds and thousands of billions. [[10.30]] So it is necessary to make amends, and there is a need for involvement, because, listening to the opinion of the people, it is only possible to draw up a really high-quality budget, so that we can find out what aspects are really important to the residents of Hungary or to the citizens of Hungary in general. Yesterday, in the social media, I asked the site's followers what they would spend money on, what they would take money from, and what they would spend more on, and I will also take these proposals into account in my proposals for amending the budget to be submitted today, because I think that the budget is perhaps the most important law for the country in that year, and that in particular people should be consulted. [[Nacsa Lőrinc showing his phone: 20 comments!]] It is not about national consultation on how, in what order and in what timing professional steps should be taken, let us say, in the disease management, to ask people what they would spend money on in the common register, as Gergely Christmas has already done in Budapest. Budapest and many opposition-led districts and settlements already have participation budgets [[Nacsa Lawrence laughs.]] Because we believe in participatory democracy, because we believe that the needs of the people must be served, and not that of the privileged one-percent interests, as did my laughing pro-government fellow Members, along with their other 132 brave companions. Compensation is also necessary because the political vendetta led Mihály Varga to withdraw nearly HUF 10 billion from his own constituency, his medical offices. Perhaps there is not yet a historical situation where a single-member constituencies representative, who is also a finance minister, has long promised health developments in the middle of an epidemic, obliterates and removes all resources from him. 9.3 billion has been confiscated by Mihály Varga in II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. The development of district health clinics, because the districts of Budapest are very behind in this case, the EU money has not yet reached this point. Now it would have finally come to the health preservation of the Buda people and to a better standard of disease treatment, modern health care, but no, Mihály Varga betrayed his own voters and took the money from the Buda people, and I will tell you this again and again even if he punishes László Kövér for 8 million. So we will return this 9.3 billion to the residents of Buda, if they do not now, if they do not accept our budget amendment this year, then after the change of government. In the same way, it is necessary to make amends for the missed programmes that Mihály Varga has promised to the locals in recent years, which would also have served to improve the living standards of the locals, the quality of life of the citizens of Buda, and that, before the elections, this was a nice matter for their hearts, and that it has been cancelled ever since. It's the school bus program. One of the biggest problems in Buda is the terrible traffic jams and the resulting air pollution, which seriously harms the health of the people here. We know that there is an infringement procedure against the Fidesz government in the European Union because the air pollution values in Hungary are very high, and this is particularly true of Hungarian cities, including Budapest. A person who spends his life in a large city in Hungary can expect a three-year shorter life span due to poor air quality, 12-14 thousand of our countrymen die every year due to air pollution-related diseases, and you do nothing. And when someone finally has a good idea, not in the government, but perhaps they heard the words of the citizens of Buda for a moment, they promise this school bus program, which would otherwise have been extended to the whole of Hungary according to their claims and promises, then it will go to nothing. On December 18, 2018, two ministers and two Fideszes in Budapest promised that the school bus program will be launched in 2019, the school bus programme has passed in 2020, we are here in May 2021, and there is no news of the school bus program. This also needs to be changed, and their betrayal must also be corrected, and money for this programme should also be spent in the budget, because this would have been an exceptionally correct idea by the Fidesz government. But in general, much more resources need to be spent on roads not used by anyone, such as motorways that can only be used by Lőrinc Mészáros's company, but also to support traffic reduction, to build bypass roads that really serve the interests, health and quality of life of residents in the settlement. This would be a great need in Buda, which is why I have already proposed to redirect budget resources to plan and launch traffic reduction investments worth billions of HUF. Let's see if he supports the Buda people's legitimate needs this year or not. It would be such a case, which I have proposed before, and I will resubmit this year as a budgetary amendment, the issue of the expansion of service dwellings, because the underpaid Hungarian public servants who, although working in education, health care, social care, often simply cannot afford to live near their workplace, and the Hungarian government's housing support system does not help them at all, not to mention their wage policies. Therefore, it is important that Annex II is amended as follows: and III. In the district, the local government is standing behind this case, trying to help public servants who make the lives of local citizens easier with a wage supplement and access to housing. This is what resources should be spent on, not taking rent homes from local authorities, as you are now planning to do in your scandalous decree or bill for the benefit of the housing mafia, but just to expand this system and spend much more on the housing of those in need and, unfortunately, the majority of those working in the public service, who are themselves in need and who live in poverty. Public transport should also be developed, as continuous withdrawal from the capital will result in the lack of capacity to maintain the quality of services and, in the meantime, the government will even try to develop them, but the government will also prevent them from doing so through borrowing, so there are no new buses and trams in Buda. This is why more must be devoted to the development of public transport, to the development of public transport and to the promotion of environmentally friendly mobility in general, which means: [[Nacsa Lawrence: Anything.]] bike rides or pedestrian friendly urban planning, actually. We need a lot more resources for these purposes, too. So it is not in the failed investment of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant that we need to water public money to a hundred billion, not the Budapest-Belgrád railway line that no one has asked for from a thousand billion forints, not the Fudan University serving Chinese interests is the investment that serves the quality of life of Hungarians, the success of Hungarian society and the economy, but the investment in the future, the investment in man. That is why education, culture should be promoted more, in particular, as I suggested in my previous budget amendments, the dissemination of environmental education, starting with young people, which is completely lacking in today's Hungarian government, while it is quite clear that in the years 2020 this is the greatest challenge facing humanity and, of course, Hungary. If we cannot respond well to the ecological crisis, the climate crisis, then we can close the blinds at about the height of 2050, so it would be good if they grew up with this responsibility and supported all the related goals, including strengthening support for school environmental education. My fellow Member, Mr Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP co-president, has already said that your plans are to reduce the budgetary allocation to national parks in 2022. That's pretty amazing. Once the system of environmental protection has been destroyed, after trying to treat national parks as an economic enterprise, this sector is hit with new withdrawals, which again means that they are not in the interest of greening, greening, but are bleeding out the remaining environmental or national park care system. The opposite would be necessary. I have already tabled a budget amendment, such as Annex II, which has been published in the Official Journal of the European Union. in the districts and in the III. increase the resources of the Pilisi Park Forest in the district; the resources of these types of public forestry and national parks should be greatly increased and should not be reduced in the least. [[10.40]] In recent news, we finally managed to get him out of the government to tear down the 2 thousand square meters of his former buddy, his steward, the investor who made him a billionaire, which was built again on a forest area, destroyed our common forest assets when he expanded beyond the boundary of the land, by thousands of square meters, a natural-destructive investment was carried out on Mount Three. It took ten years for the demolition decision to finally appear to be valid. But this just draws attention to the fact that there are many of these investments linked to Fidesz, which damage the green one in Buda, which destroys forests in Buda and green areas. The removal of these damages and the recovery of environmental damage in general would also require much greater resources. For example, after nine years of fidesz domination, we looked at what the Óbuda Swamp Suite and its surroundings looked like. Slowly, it is possible to take the view that full soil regeneration is needed, that the amount of garbage was accumulated there, that the green areas of Buda under the leadership of Fidesz had become illegal landfills, that the local authorities had done nothing, and that István Tarlós had done nothing until he could do with the government's support. This is why not only local governments, but not only the Metropolitan Government, must wipe out the Fidesz powers, but also in 2022 at the parliamentary elections. That is why it is necessary to choose a government committed to the service of sustainability, justice and 99 percent, which is why the alliance of democratic parties still in opposition today should be entrusted to finally resolve such ordinary matters, for example. So we need to make amends, we need to make up for what they have done to the people, we need to make up for what they have done to the municipalities. Therefore, it is also justified to establish a municipal compensation fund, which is the hundreds of billions of forints withdrawn from the Hungarian settlements, which would have been used locally to serve the quality of life and quality of life of the Hungarian people, the local residents, because this is in the interest of the 99 percent, and this is also in the interest of the local citizens in Buda. I will present appropriate budgetary amendments, and I hope that they will find their common sense and support these well-intentioned proposals. If not, we will be able to endure the remaining one year on one foot, because this budget is not for the whole of 2022, because you will well deservedly fail in April 2022, and the new government will first have to prepare a new supplementary budget that will finally serve the interests of the 99 percent of society rather than the 1 percent Fidesz. Thank you very much. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]]
u2021-05-20-26	Thank you very much, notary Bence Tordai, Congressman. I give the floor to an independent Member of Tibor Bana, who is speaking about the pulpit, for a preliminary speech. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-20-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, As Chairman of the Joint Vas County Association, and as a member of the Joint Szentgotthárdért Association and the Everyone's Hungary Movement, I submitted 43 budget amendments to the budget next year. I would like to present these proposals. But before I go into the details, I would also like to talk overall and comprehensively about some important issues that are important both for Vas county and primarily for the constituency in Körmend, but I also think that they are important at national level, because I am also trying to draw your attention to problems that are also problematic in other parts of the country. One of these is the lack of building a sewage network, which many villages still struggle with in Hungary, including in Vas County. Similarly, it is important to say in the case of lower roads that in many cases these roads are not in good condition in the area of villages, especially small settlements. This should therefore be substantially changed. But the same problem is the drainage of precipitation water, and this affects not only the villages, but also, where appropriate, cities. During the period of the coronal virus epidemic and now slowly moving out of it, I think it is important to talk about the issue of tourism and to give substantial support to the various accommodations, especially to boost rural tourism. Allow me to be biased, since both in the Vendék region and in the Guard, they need substantial support. This has happened, but overall, it can be said that there is still plenty of substantial support that will give us a substantial boost when the epidemic period is fully over. We are talking about beautiful areas, and we can find such places everywhere in Vas County, both in terms of natural values and in terms of historical monuments. So we look forward to a lot of love for everyone, and I hope that there will also be some shifts in this area. I also think it is important to note that the wage arrangement of municipal joint office workers is also an important task and that an effective, substantial wage increase should be given to those who do this work. And while I was talking about road improvements in terms of lower roads, I would also like to mention that it is certainly to be welcomed that the Szombathely-Egyházasradóc section on Route 86 can be completed soon, in due time, that is definitely a positive one. The same can be said for the section connecting Szombathely 87 with Kőszeg. But not about the condition of the old 8th, because now that the works of the M8 are taking place, unfortunately, I have received a number of such signals, but I myself drive a lot on this road, so almost every day I find that there are some parts of the old 8th road in very bad condition. And in the case of the M8, I would like to say that it is completely unacceptable that, after Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has promised on several occasions that the motorway will be built in Körmenden and that there will be two lanes for driving, but we have to face the fact that there will be two single-band improvements in the M8 only in this section, and there are also signs that this will be a paying phase. I think that this is completely nonsense, because making a double one-track section pay is certainly unacceptable. Of course, the development itself represents progress compared to the previous ones, but this is not what they promised, and I have been confronting you with this promise over the previous years. I regret that, after all, this is not done in the way that Prime Minister and, by the way, local politicians promised to the people in the region on a pro-government basis. And if there are roads, I also think it is important to underline that normal, quality road improvements are needed, not only in Vas county, in the constituency of Körmend, but also throughout the country, and proper implementation, because in many cases we can see that the condition of these roads leaves much to be desired even for a few years. The interests of locals should be taken into account to a large extent, and I will provide concrete examples of this. Villages, small settlements. In recent times, a lot of people have talked about the withdrawal that both Budapest and the metropolitan cities have faced and the difficult situation they are in. I think it is also important to talk about villages, because in their case, these withdrawals have also appeared and the reduction of powers, and their opportunities are completely limited. This should therefore be changed and further opportunities should be provided for these municipalities. For example, there are 127 settlements in the Körmend district, among which there are a lot of villages, and there are many small villages and even small villages, and they should be helped, even in terms of applications, as there are many times when the management of the settlement is trying to raise its own share, but then there is a high price offer, and so they can no longer produce additional self-esteem and very important improvements are missing. Therefore, this should also be considered when we talk about the opportunities to boost rural Hungary and the quality of life and improvement of people living in villages and small towns. I would now like to turn to the specific amendments, Mr Parliament. As regards Apátistvánfalva, I submitted the renovation of the road connecting Szentgotthárd-Apátistvánfalva. Certain stages of this have been renewed, but it can still be seen that this section of the road is in very bad condition. This is not only used by the locals, but, fortunately, because of the Vendék, tourism is also significant in this area because of the beautiful properties of Apatistvánfalva and the other vend settlements. So it's important to have a meaningful road development here. [[10.50]] In the case of Csákánydoroszló, I would like to bring here the renovation and expansion of the bicycle route, because this road is no longer in good condition and in some places there are dangerous accidents, so enlargement would also be important in this context. In relation to Cák, which is part of the constituency in Sárvár, but there are important developments that I would like to talk about, such as the construction of new roads, the renovation of existing ones, then the construction of the utility network, the construction of public lighting, the expansion of the roof structure of the community house, the purchase of communal equipment and the new settlement plan should also be provided with substantial assistance to the settlement. I am referring to it here, and of course I am now giving concrete examples, but I would also like to point out that a lot of these villages, a lot of them small towns, are struggling with the problem that they are unable to raise adequate funds for improvements of this size. This is also the case with Döröske, as we are talking about a small village, where the renovation of the former school building is absolutely necessary. This is not an isolated case. I think that many examples could be listed in connection with their exploitation and its importance, since municipal property is lost if this does not happen. Csénye is also part of the Sárvár district, but I would like to bring here the case for the construction of the sewage network, because I am convinced that in settlements where this is not yet the 21st century. In the 18th century, there should be substantial assistance for this. This is also true in the case of Felsőmarác, where the most pressing problem is the lack of a sewage network, and the management of the settlement wants to achieve it, and the locals want to reach it. I would note here that, of course, I have consulted mayors, local associations and various important actors in the context of the amendments. With regard to Highway 76, it must be acknowledged that there have been substantial improvements in recent years, but the post-Hegyhátsal phase should be renewed, since unfortunately there have been several fatal accidents in the Hegyhádás area over the last few years, and this is a good indication that this section should be broadened and modernised. With regard to Jánosháza, I bring here the importance of modernising the producer market. I've been here many times myself. I think that the people of the Yánosháza and the people of the area deserve to be able to market under truly worthy conditions. I therefore also call for the support of honourable Members. In the case of Kissomlyó, I would also like to talk about a road development, which is about the creation of a cornering lane on Highway 84, as we can also talk about an accident risk section here. This development would not be large, but I still think that if it were to happen, a significant part of the accidents could be prevented. In the case of Körmend, the positive thing is that progress has been made in relation to cinemas, although I think it would be important that this really works as a cinema, as is the case with our city, Gotthard, for example. The cinema bearing the name László Csákányi is more than 100 years old. Of course, we welcome the Körmendi here, but I think it would be good if they could go to the movies on the spot and not go to Szentgotthárd, Zalaegerszeg or Szombathely for such a purpose. Progress has also been made on the mobile barrier issue. I am talking about these because I have put forward proposals over the previous years, as well as the 5/A and 5/B blocks of the Bartók colony, which is welcome, and this is the case with the expansion of the cemetery. I would like to bring here the section from the intersection of Hunyadi utca-Rákóczi utca to the cemetery, which is used in a very large number of young and old people alike. His condition is already very bad, so he could use a substantial renovation. The construction of the Bartók, Bartók-residential playground fence is also an important development requirement, since this playground is complete. Young children have an opportunity to play sports, but this is an accident-threatening part, because if they run out of the ball and run out of Körmenden, in many cases after basketball, there are cars there, and this can cause serious problems. Tragedies should be prevented, so I tabled an amendment to this, as well as to the development of the sports centre, which is in the field of law school. Since the city has a long history of sport, I think it would be important to make a substantial contribution to this, both for the people of Körmen and for the people of the area. I would also like to talk about the drainage of the railway station, as this has happened, as the development of the railway station itself, the bus station is there, and there is also a pedestrian overpass, which is positive, but yet such a question has not been resolved, and the people who live there find it difficult. I think we should change that. In the case of körmend, I would also like to bring here the renovation of the old-town façades and the restoration of the water mill, which is Batthyány-lordmalm mill, by the way. Miklós Auer, an independent municipal representative, has the heart of these issues, but I also consulted him on the other proposals. I very much hope that progress can be made. In the case of Kőszeg, Kálmán Rába is a local government representative who has also submitted numerous proposals over the past few years. For example, the development of downtown roads, the expansion of the cemetery, or even tourist developments in the city. Fortunately, these are progressing or have happened, but I think that, for example, the issue of the beach bath should be mentioned. It would be important that Kőszeg has a real chance to beach, and there are obviously good bathing areas in our county for this purpose, or to use Austrian bathing areas if possible, as there is not yet a complete possibility of doing so. I would also like to bring here the construction of Lócs, which is part of the Sárvár district, and also of the waste water network, which is an important development need. This shows that there are still problems in many places. Nyőgér: The case of the doctor's office is certainly positive that it has progressed, but the renovation of roads, sidewalks and the small amount of modernization of the cemetery would provide substantial help to the settlement. I trust you'll consider that, too. As a member of the Sárvár, Celldömölk district, I will also bring Ostffya tree, where I spoke with Mayor Hajnalka Mihátsiné, and, like last year, I would like to bring here substantial help in the purchase, renovation, recovery of the Petőfi Sándor peasant house, the preservation of the mansion of his lips, as well as in the maintenance of the war prisoner cemetery. I think, Honourable Parliament, these are all matters which may be important for safekeeping, regardless of the political side. Of course, there are opportunities to consider, even with Austria, because, for example, regarding the POW cemetery, it should be said that we are talking about one of Europe's largest prisoners of war cemeteries in the case of the POW. I'd like to take the road to the Őriszentpéter-Chörött. This also has a lot of risky stages, many people also use it, as well as those who come here in connection with tourism. So this development would be worth doing. It is also to be welcomed that the Pankas Daycare Kitchen was able to win, and so my last speech and amendment could contribute to this in some way, which I am very pleased about. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) In the case of Rönök, I would like to take the road to the Church of St. Imre, which is in critical condition. Just next year there will be 30 years of renewal, and this temple has been rebuilt from its ruins. Let me also make a personal comment, since my grandfather, who was late in the renovation work, was also involved, so that's why it's my concern. In addition, this happened with Austrian-Hungarian cooperation. So I think it would be important to do this, that the believers, or even those from far away, can approach this beautiful church in a proper way. I would like to bring here the renovation of Szentgotthárd-Máriaújfalu-Szalafő út, which starts from Lake Hársas and goes to the settlement of Szalafő. This one could use some renovations, too. And I am bringing the road to Szalafő-Hodos here as a cross-border road because, on the one hand, this development is important for cross-border cooperation and, on the other hand, we are talking about a fun road. So I think it is absolutely important to ensure more proper connections between Slovenia and Hungary, so Szalafő-Hodos Road belongs to this category. The development of the Szentgotthárd-Keszthely bicycle path through the Guard is also an important issue, a larger volume of development, which I would like to bring here. It is also used by tourists, where appropriate by Hungarian tourists, but foreign tourists, mainly Austrian tourists, would also use this route. So I'm asking you to consider this possibility. With regard to Satta, I would like to bring here the case of the construction of the sewage network, of course, in line with the needs of the population, as we are talking about a small village. I think that we should not put too much pressure on the Sattans, but this development is waiting for itself, and I would also mention road renovation, because the road through Satta is in very bad shape. [[11.00]] With regard to our town of Szentgotthárd, I would like to note that both in terms of the restoration of the environment of Lake Hársas and in the case of the scythe factory, which was a decade-old problem, substantial changes and progress have been made. These have been proposed and encouraged by the Association for the Szentgotthárd, so we can definitely welcome them. However, it is important to set up a nursing home. The movement has already started in this regard, which I can certainly rejoice about. But Andrea Bartakovics and Viktor Orbán municipal representatives have indicated that, for example, I should also bring the case of the Jewish bicycle and pedestrian lane here, because there is a promise, but there is a need to make another signal in order for this to happen. I would also like to mention the development of the athletic field, as Szentgotthárd boasts Olympic champions and Olympics in the field of athletics. It is therefore also important to consider this development. The development of public roads. There has also been progress here, for example in connection with Kossuth Lajos Street or Hunyadi Street, but there is also a section of Füzesi Road that has not been renewed, and now this has come up even more as a problem with the development of the M8; but I can mention Árpád Street or even May 1st Street. So these are all problems to be solved. Finally, in the case of Gotthárd, I would like to bring here the question of the so-called Romhotel, the purchase, renovation and exploitation of which would be extremely important, since it is eloquent in Deák Ferenc Street, the disgrace of Szentgotthárd and, unfortunately, life-threatening. Therefore, this should be changed in any case, providing substantial assistance to the municipality for renovation. I'd like to go to Vasvar, where the 74 bypass road should be built. In this regard, the plans have been completed, but this should be accelerated, as the situation is very bad in this context, and this also affects Vasvár's centre, as well as, where appropriate, historic houses. It would therefore be important for the people who live there to make this development possible as soon as possible. I have consulted members of the Vazsvár Chronicles Association in this context. And last but not least, I would like to bring here the Őrség Velemér settlement, which is a small village, but very famous, since it has an Árpád-era church, who may not have been there yet, I can recommend it to that. But it would therefore be important to develop the local history museum here, or the road connecting Magyarszombatfa with Velemér, even because, fortunately, more and more people, beyond the locals, are using this section of road, those who would like to see this beautiful settlement or the Árpád-era church, which is fortunately famous not only in Hungary but in the whole world. In order to do this even more comfortably, it would also be important to prepare a new bridge towards the Árpád-era church, as the present one is in very bad condition. So I would very much ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to consider these improvements as well. Of course, I have not been able to give a full picture, but I think that I have been able to show many important needs for development that could be a meaningful step forward for the people in the region. Finally, I would like to note that, fortunately, my speeches over the last few years have been successful in many cases, since certain improvements are being made, and my proposal for the renovation of the Baroque church in Szentgotthárd was adopted earlier in 2010. I trust that this will be considered now, and that some proposals will be supported, so that we can talk about a success story for the region, to which I will make every effort to contribute. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-20-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. I am now speaking to Imre Ritter, a representative of the minority. The Member will also speak from the platform. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-20-29	Thank you very much. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten meine gestrige, 20-minütige Rede bezüglich des Gesetzentwurfs Nr. T/16118. uber den ungarischen Haushalt im Zusammenhang mit dem Nationalitätenbedarf übergreifende Teilen weiter treibei. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to continue today my contribution to the draft central budget law of 2022, which started in 20 minutes yesterday. T/16118. The draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2022 compared to the adopted budget law of 2021 for the 12 Hungarian nationalities on the one hand, is set out in Annex XI. Chapter 30/1/31/1 The number of national professional grants was reduced by HUF 37.2 million. On the other hand, XLVII. Chapter 2/2/7 of the Economic Protection Fund funding for ethnic institutions has been increased by HUF 663.2 million. For the 12 nationalities, the 2022 budget bill contains an increase of HUF 626 million compared to the adopted budget law in 2021. In the case of Roma nationality, Article XIV is replaced by the following: Chapter 20/5/1. In the area of Roma ethnicity professional and investment grants, it contains HUF 411.2 million in the area of accumulation instead of HUF 363.2 million in 2021, which represents an increase of HUF 48 million compared to 2021. As a whole, a HUF 674 million increase in the 13 nationalities is reflected in the 2022 Budget Act as compared to the 2021 Act. The budgetary needs of Hungarian nationalities in 2022 were drawn up on the basis of very detailed and thorough surveys and analyses, some of which were not included in the budget law bill for 2021, but unfortunately for the reasons known. We also had preliminary discussions with the national national minority self-governments, with the purses responsible for nationalities. On this basis, the 13 Hungarian nationalities are T/16118 in 2022. A total of HUF 2 billion HUF 970.3 million would be proposed for the Budgetary Act. The need to change 13 nationalities is one of the smaller areas of focus this time: the operation of national minority self-governments and the support of institutions maintained by the media and national minority self-governments. It should be noted in advance that the last three years ago, in the 2019 Central Budget Act, there was an increase in support for national minority self-governments. However, since then, a series of legislative and economic changes have taken place which objectively justify the increase in aid. I would like to talk about these in more detail. The first area is the operation of 13 national minority self-governments and the support of the media in 2022 by HUF 388.8 million, on average by 18.2 percent due to the following four factors. On the one hand, according to an objective principle of uniform professional evaluation for all, we examined and compared the operating costs of the general assemblies of national national minority authorities on the basis of the facts of the last full year of operation prior to the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, we would like to add to the budget of the national minority self-governments operating at the lowest unit cost of the general meeting up to HUF 100 thousand per member of the general assembly per month. This includes fees, all wage costs and their contributions, costs in rem, expenses, all other expenses of the general meeting. This affects eight out of the 13 national minority self-governments, and the others still have more than 100 thousand forints per person in the monthly general meeting. This requires a total extra payment of HUF 76.2 million. [[11.10]] On the other hand, at the national minority self-government elections in 2019 an assembly of eight persons had to be elected on the basis of the number of persons registered in the national minority register in Croatia, Germany and Slovakia. For their part, the addition of the operating costs of the general meeting will amount to HUF 28.8 million in additional support. Thirdly, the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Following the amendment of Act No. 1 January 2018, the national minority authorities took over the right of trustee of the building and building stock of the public education and cultural institutions maintained by them, and after the amendment of 1 September 2020, the national minority authorities also took over the ownership of the national minority public education institutions they maintained, or are in the process of taking over. By taking over ownership, the national minority self-governments are charged with the property insurance fee of the institutions they reserve, which requires an additional payment of HUF 18 million per year. Fourthly, the national minority authorities and the media require a 15% increase in the budget for 2021, reduced by the costs of the general meetings, of which HUF 265.8 million, since the operating costs of the national minority authorities have not been increased since 2019. All of this together results in an increase of HUF 388.8 million to 13 nationalities, i.e. 18.2 percent in support of the operation of national minority self-governments and the media. As a second area, we want to raise the support of national minority authorities and their reserved institutions by HUF 581.5 million. The increase in aid is justified by the following five factors. Firstly, by taking over the ownership already mentioned, the annual depreciation obligation of 2 percent will be a minimum of HUF 231.1 million for the institutions already received, which will require an increase of the same amount of aid, given that the national minority authorities do not have their own revenue and that the maintenance and renewal of the institution is a task taken over by the State. In total, 39 institutions have a book value of more than HUF 11.5 billion. Secondly, in five national minority self-governments, Bulgarian, Croatian, German, Ruthenian and Slovak authorities, ten new ethnic institutions have been created in the last three years, or significant scale improvements have been made in existing institutions, the annual operating costs of which should be ensured. This is a total of 138.1 million forints. Thirdly, the five permanent so-called stone theatres maintained by national minority authorities, Bulgarian, Croatian, German, Serbian and Slovak, have received part of their operating costs through individual grants, the possibility of which does not allow the theatres to operate in a planned, economical and efficient manner. We therefore consider it necessary to plan these individual grants, which amount to HUF 99 million. Fourthly, the XXXII of 2020 adopted on 19 May 2020 on the transformation of the civil servant status of those employed in cultural institutions and the amendment of certain laws on cultural subjects. By law, civil servants employed in the cultural sector had to be granted 6 percent back-to-back wage development and their status as civil servants as of 1 November 2020. This was compensated for by all the maintenance members, but unfortunately, cultural institutions with nationality reservations were accidentally left out of this. In the cultural institutions maintained by national ethnic authorities, the 6 per cent wage development amounts to HUF 12,6 million, which should be guaranteed in the same way as the other maintainers, with the same amount of support as in 2022. Finally, we consider it necessary to increase the overall operating support of national minority authorities and reserved institutions by 7.5 percent, which is HUF 107.7 million for the 13 nationalities, since, as I said, no increase has been made since 2019. These five factors make up the need for a total increase of HUF 581.5 million in support for 13 nationalities in the national minority self-governments and their reserved institutions. Thus, national minority authorities and the media, as well as their national minority self-governments and their reserved institutions, provide a total of HUF 970.3 million for the 13 national minority self-governments, with an overall increase of 27.9 percent. In addition, we intend to raise the Prime Minister's Office by another HUF 550 million. Chapter 30/1/31/1 For the following three specific uses, the heading of the operational expenditure of the national minority professional grants. On the one hand, we intend to provide an extra HUF 50 million for the scholarship of the minority educator from 1 September 2022. On the other hand, we intend to provide HUF 150 million to ensure the staff and material conditions necessary to improve the quality of the training of minority educators who are expected to be much higher as of 1 September 2022. I'll talk about this in more detail tomorrow. Thirdly, the necessary HUF 350 million is necessary to support and finance the operational and management tasks of the ethnic public education institutions. I will also discuss this in more detail tomorrow. Finally, the majority of the need for an increase in aid is the Prime Minister's Office XI. Chapter 30/1/31/4 Forints of 1 billion HUF 450 million for investment, renovation and tendering. I would like to highlight and anticipate that, in the case of national minority public education institutions maintained by national authorities, the increase in aid is objectively required by the new ownership and management conditions that have changed through the legislative amendments adopted in 2020. As I have already mentioned to the national authorities, the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law 25 § (6) of the Act adopted in the summer of 2020 I quote, along with the transfer of the right of maintenance, the movable and immovable property for the purpose of carrying out the educational and educational tasks of the public education institution shall be transferred to the property of the national minority self-government, without delay, but not later than the beginning of the education or school year. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the case of local minority self-governments, this amendment concerns 69 national minority public education institutions in four nationalities in German, Croatian, Romanian and Slovak, 51 municipalities, while in the case of eight national minorities, it concerns 35 ethnic education institutions in the 27 municipalities. [[11.20]] To sum up, we are talking about 104 ethnic educational institutions in 78 settlements. According to our most recent full survey carried out in April 2021, the transfer of property rights is based on the following: in 39 cases of free transfer of property from 69 national minority public education institutions with local nationality reservations, this is 59 percent, it is already in order, in another 25 cases, this 36 percent, is in progress, the transfer is expected to be completed within days, within a few weeks, and in only 4 cases, this 6 percent of all institutions, the transfer-take is expected to take even longer, for legal proceedings, heritage protection or other reasons. The situation is not so positive when taking over the free ownership rights of 35 national minority public education institutions maintained by national ethnic authorities. In six cases, this is 17 percent, the handover has already taken place. In 25 cases, this is 72 percent, in progress, the delivery is expected to be completed within weeks, within a month or two. And here, in 4 cases, 11 percent, the transfer-take is expected to take longer; here, too, legal proceedings, a significant number of member institutions and other reasons. From this point on, there is a clear, clear, clear situation in these public education institutions, since both the right to maintain and property rights have been transferred to the national authorities, so all tasks related to operation, maintenance and renovation and investment have been transferred to the national authorities. These are public tasks taken over from the State, which are otherwise the responsibility of the State, and since the municipalities of nationality do not have their own revenue, so the State must provide the necessary budgetary support for the performance of these public tasks. After the takeover, it is no longer the Klebelsberg Centre, not one or another local government, but the responsibility of the maintenance minority municipality from the State, if a storm breaks the roof, if there is a leak, if the windows need to be replaced, if the outdated, accident- or even life-threatening electrical network has to be renewed, if the outdated social block has to be renewed, because the SAO will not allow further education if the boiler fails and the heating stops, and so on. Of course, this radically new situation not only means the necessary restructuring of funding and support, but also requires serious organisational and regulatory changes, but I will also want to discuss them in more detail in the 20 minutes to-morrow. In conclusion of my speech today, I would like to say, in summary, that on behalf of the 13 Hungarian nationalities, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, on the basis of the above detailed reasons and areas, requires a total of HUF 2 billion HUF 970.3 million in additional support. Submit to the bill on Hungary's central budget for 2022, for which we ask the understanding support of the factions, all the representatives and, of course, the government. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-20-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Now that the round is down, two-minute speeches would follow, but on behalf of the government, Secretary of State László Mosóczi asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-05-20-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Several issues have been raised here in recent speeches, which have affected transport, and I would like to briefly reflect on them. For road: Hungary's road network is 32,000 kilometres long. Since 2010, the civilian government has fixed nearly 6,000 kilometers of these, with an amount of HUF 755 billion, and I would mention that the road network was not 32,000 kilometers long in 2010, as the Member mentioned here that it was built, for example, between Győr M85 and Sopron and many other motorways. So within the framework of the road programme, which we can be truly proud of, and especially the fact that much of it was financed by the domestic budget thanks to our economic results, our country's road network has approached and even exceeded European standards, and now the construction of the circular elements can begin instead of the jet highways. The Hungarian village program was also mentioned, so that the basic goal of the Hungarian village is to ensure that the rural quality of life is the same, but that the lifestyle is different. There are also very significant road renovations in the framework of the Hungarian village. This year, with an investment amount of HUF 313 billion, nearly a thousand kilometers of this amount has never been renewed in recent years. So I have to say, we hear a lot of demands, and we hear a lot of complaints, but with these results, this disadvantage can be overcome. The railway station of Tatabánya and the railway line of Budapest-Hegyeshalom were also mentioned. Here too, thanks to EU proposals and EU grants, we have provided resources to the MÁV for the design of the Tatabánya station, and in both stages we plan to renovate the track on this railway line in the near years, in order to provide shorter travel times for local transport and international relations. We have started the design of the M81 expressway in Komárom-Székesfehérvár-Sárbugárd-Kecskemét in order to avoid international transit traffic and domestic transit traffic in Budapest, so the agglomeration traffic in Budapest is better able to use the sections of the M1, M0 and M5. The preparatory work has also started with regard to both the construction of the high-speed railway and the design of the so-called V0 railway line, which escapes Budapest from the south. All this serves to avoid transit in Budapest, which is a very serious item in Hungary's transport, and here agglomeration and local transport can use roads in a significant part. With the support of the Hungarian State in terms of environmental protection, Volán spends significant amounts on buying modern buses. A tender for nearly a hundred electric buses is being issued today, with which we are also unique in Europe, so we are taking a major step forward in terms of emissions of harmful greenhouse gases. We know that 25 percent of these, including 98 percent of road transport, are responsible, so the government is also doing so in order to lower air pollution. In public transport, I mentioned Volán's bus purchases, and at the MÁV there are 40 double-decker trains for other motor trains, IC + wagons, so the government has taken and is taking steps to significantly improve the quality of public transport. At the bike routes: 150 km in 2021, 180 km in 2022, a new bicycle path is established, and I can also mention the renovations for the previously completed road sections. After giving the parts of the bicycle roads outside the settlements to the Hungarian Road in operation, they perform these tasks more efficiently and quickly with the right target machines. As regards both road and rail, I believe that these improvements ensure that both local and local transport can be conducted in a more environmentally friendly and faster manner in Hungary and that we can be proud of the fact that we also have a very serious road network in international comparison and that we have an increasingly modern rail network. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-20-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Three of them applied for a two-minute speech. First, I would like to address Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[11.30]]
u2021-05-20-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Lake Balaton belongs to everyone, even if you forget it many times, because in the last decade there have been investments on the shore of Lake Balaton that are suitable for talking about it. They exploit, expropriate the Balaton, and if that were not enough, even ecological disaster threatens the Hungarian sea. We cannot allow this, and I therefore tabled an amendment with my fellow Members Lajos Rig and Ádám Steinmetz, who are also representatives around Lake Balaton, and we have asked Mr Mihály Witzmann, Károly Kontrat, Jenő Manninger, Zoltán Fenyvesi and Attila József Móring, the five Fidesz MPs and KDNP who are active in the Balaton area, to provide a source and additional resources for the rehabilitation of Balaton. We have just determined the HUF 19.1 billion, exactly what the stadium in Nyíregyháza costs, because we believe that if there is money for stadium development, then there must also be a source for the rehabilitation of Lake Balaton. Because when the head of the Balaton Limnological Institute also says that the handbrake must be pulled in and the processes that are there at Lake Balaton must be stopped, then it is our duty to protect the nation's wealth, our common Hungarian treasure, our Lake Balaton, and to provide all the resources for this. Of course, I would also like to tell you where we got this source. From the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, because we believe that this is an investment that will never be repaid, but we care about the rehabilitation of Lake Balaton, because it is our responsibility that future generations find the same natural treasure in which we are, so this source is extremely important. I hope that my fellow Members will join us in this, and today they will be able to sign for 15 hours and 50 minutes, and what is more important to them is the stadiums, the Budapest-Belgrád railway line or the rescue of Lake Balaton. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-20-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2021-05-20-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I will respond longer to Klára Dobrev's demagogic, lying, anti-church and anti-family speech, which he has done here in Parliament. We know the old communist saying: "Delete the past completely." The post-communists have now chosen a slogan to rewrite the past, as Klára Dobrev gave her speech in the ring of three people, the secretary of state who closed the school, the secretary of state responsible for the wrong and austerity economic policy and the secretary of state responsible for the demise of the defence, and she also said that she taught a budget to many students at the university. We also apologize to students who had to listen to this unprofessional presentation, since Klára Dobrev said that the State Audit Office is preparing the budget and the accounts. Obviously, he taught me that, too, if that's what he thinks. Of course, this is not true, the State Audit Office has an opinion, and the professional opinion is always very well taken into account by all governments, and that is correct, but the government also prepares the budget and closing accounts so as not to leave bad information to students because of this bad performance. I would also like to respond to my fellow Member, Mr Potocsány, that no matter how much I looked for it, I could not find press conferences from a representative woman at the time when Siotour, Zalatour, Balatontourist Kft. were privatized by Ferenc Gyurcsány for HUF 8 billion, while only Siotour had a plot area of one and a half million square meters in Balaton, so that they would not develop anything, leave it down and sell it at a price. At the time, the congresswoman was not so enthusiastic, I wish she had defended the Balaton. 'Cause it's obvious now that we're washing the Gyurcsány era here from Jobbik. I consider this to be an unfortunate development in the light of the speeches made in recent years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-20-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next two-minute speaker from the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-20-37	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I see that our MEP Klára Dobrev, indeed, as a candidate for Prime Minister of the Democratic Coalition, has made quite a speech if he is making Fidesz's representatives so angry. Moreover, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, immediately jumped up and began to say what he thought was going on. But, Mr. Secretary of State, you should know that when you and Mrs. András Tállai are doing the budget at home, then there are some things that need to be taken into account. They may also have noticed what Klára Dobrev said before 2010 was 4 percent of people, pensioners living below the poverty line, and now 14 percent. That's a difference that you might even notice, and that's what this message was about. But it is in the same category if the housing crisis, which you have produced in a significant part, is added to the fact that the municipal tenements are being sold, and essentially the farming, the opportunity that young people can take to start their lives, to start their careers, to prevent you, and to act in this way. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of Mr Secretary of State to the fact that, when he spoke about health care, he should never forget, after some part of it, the workers who have been tricked, to whom they are not insured; I have in my hand the letter in which they are asked to draw their attention to how he was cheated and, yes, they must also ensure that the wage increase is raised. So, on behalf of the people in the car of the previous government in the corner, I would like to say that this budget is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-20-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the proper speeches. First, I give the floor from the Fidesz Group to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-20-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not recall a budget debate since the change of regime that did not say the small farmer's position in that debate. It's no different now. For the past 15 to 20 years, it has been my duty almost regularly to do so, so I am perhaps disappointed that I do not wish to speak in detail about agriculture, not even about the environment, but rather about this budget itself. If we hold a small rearview mirror, we can see that two budgetary years followed after 2010 when the budget had a double task, the elimination of the bankruptcy abandoned by the socialist-liberal government, and the start of the economy on a new rising path. From 2013 onwards, not least, economic policy, of course, but also the budgets, led the Hungarian economy on a rising path that could only be broken by the coronal virus epidemic. Dear House, I thought this was necessary because I believe that this budget has a multi-directional task. It is clear that in the coming years Hungary will have access to financial resources that have not been available in the past. In the following year, the seven-year EU budget will be opened, for which the government has fought a great deal to actually receive the money we owe, the same struggle would have to be continued with the fund created by the members, which should be in line with the budget which will be adopted by the House. It's a big job. This task must be met not for a year, but for several years, for many years, not for a sector, not for some sectors, but for all sectors. I believe that it is a crucial part of ensuring consistency with the budget, and I believe that it is still the task of the next period. It is clear that within the European Union, great forces have moved to ensure that Hungary does not have access to, or is prevented from using, its resources in the interests of Hungary. Because this is one of the important questions: should we use these resources as required by the European Union, or in the way we want them, according to Hungarian interests? The story is that it is either that the European Union determines the directions that will be followed, or that we who know our own history, our own country, can define the needs here. [[11.40]] Today, I am convinced that this is why the fight is going on, and I am also convinced that we cannot lose in this case, because we need to think about this in a historical perspective. The period in which we can make use of these resources and make use of them usefully, we can use them for the benefit of society as a whole, I believe that it will determine the Hungarian fate in the long term. The situation at the moment is that there is a miracle weapon for the European Union. This has already been thrown in, and I believe that this is the next step that will be used, and that is climate change. The story is that climate change, which should be a scientific issue, has been politicised and policy uses this opportunity to a large extent for its own purposes. The Hungarian Government has taken a reasonable position and should continue to do so. Politics is not the place to decide on scientific issues. Scientific questions must be judged and decided by science. Until that happens, there are open questions. We are therefore taking the view that we are taking all the steps that are useful and good in terms of climate change, but we are not doing anything that would serve only an ideology. It is clear that, as a result of climate change, there are two things to be prepared for here in Central Europe, and this budget, I think, has already taken this into account, because climate change can be positive for us and its content that we can use, it must be used, and there may be parts that are obviously harmful, it must be reduced or, if possible, excluded. I believe that, therefore, the coordination of budgets in the coming years is perhaps the most important one that will obviously be implemented by qualified and appropriate professionals. And last but not least, this House, I must also say that I do not disappoint you that the Covid virus has a huge positive after all. As a result of this epidemic, the whole country realized that it is the main value here, which is within the country, that it will remain here, on which it can be built, which is not taken away by foreign companies, that is clearly the Hungarian agricultural land, this is clearly the Hungarian countryside that is firmly ensuring our survival here. The next one is, therefore, that, once this budget has established the funds, we can use the inbound additional resources to strengthen this area that is so very important to us and so very important to our lives. Therefore, honourable House, I believe that this budget is an appropriate and good budget. In short, very briefly, but I must also say, this House, that it has been said today, and that it will also be said, in relation to environmental and nature protection, the same text, which, I think, has been said ever since the world was around for six days, in every budget: there is little resources in the budget for these purposes. They do not know, they do not want to take note of the fact that, within the Hungarian system, budgetary and environmental resources do not appear in the same place, but also in the different sectors. When we implement a large-scale water programme that serves, say, agriculture, but also environmental and nature protection, we would like to account for this among the sources of environmental and nature protection. You have to learn that sooner or later. For my part, I therefore wholeheartedly recommend that the budget be adopted. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-20-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Zoltán Magyar. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-20-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! The fact is that if I were to argue for all my amendments to the 2022 budget, I would have 3.3 seconds to propose an amendment. Let's face it, too, that it would be insufficient to read this title, so I tried to take a few examples of the cases in Győr-Moson-Sopron county, on the one hand, because I live there, and on the other hand I made amendments to the issues of agriculture and rural development, on the other hand, of which I would also like to argue for the most important ones. Although obviously I am not naive, it is clear from the debate over the last decade that there is much hope for adoption in relation to these amending proposals. I looked at yesterday, the last time I saw it in 2010 on the 2011 budget, and there were substantial proposals for amendments to the opposition. Obviously, it was only a few billion forints, but since then, this gesture has not even arrived on the part of the governing parties. Many people talk about Győr-Moson-Sopron County as an enviable area of the country, both in terms of jobs and county comparison statistics, the average income is clearly above the national average. That is true, and we should be proud of that, but if we look closely, there are serious problems here that require public help. I must definitely mention the state of the roads. So, compared to, say, Győr, Veszp-rém and Székesfehérvár, perhaps three of the most industrially developed cities in the country, these three cities are connected by a network of roads that are completely unworthy of this important economic weight and the lives of the people living there. In the direction of 81, 82 and Pope, the main road 83 is all constantly saturated, its condition is of poor quality and is particularly life-threatening. So this has been the case with very serious promises over the last decade, but the practical implementation remains to this day. I know that some stages are near construction, but there is a need for comprehensive motorways for all three main roads. And speaking of roads, I do not know if my fellow Members have been on the island lately, but the lower roads, the roads connecting smaller settlements, are also in an unsatisfying state; so I wouldn't say antiquity then, as far as I know, they were much better roads, but they quote the worst period of the Middle Ages, without any exaggeration. It is also worth looking at the photos that I keep publishing in this regard and with which I also argue for my budgetary amendments. I am simply ashamed to think of the fact that, in connection with Dunasziget or Lipót, foreign or domestic tourists appear in this region. There really are terrible conditions; unworthy. Just as it is not roads, but the question of the old Rajka border crossing is closely connected. If you have been to Bratislava recently, or have come home from that direction, the first thing you face when you enter Hungary is a completely degraded complex of buildings, from which trees are growing, and the roof shows a picture of a shrub forest. It's incredibly insufferable, and it's really just the shame that comes to mind every time I go there. I cannot believe that an EU country should show this as its first entry picture in 2021. There are similar conditions, I would mention such an example with regard to my narrower country, Mosonmagyaróvár, for example, the industrial monument of the city, which is the city's example, and is practically the first symbol from which you can recognize the city from a view. I see they're playing to make it worse every year, and sooner or later, they don't have to be saved, they're gonna have to dooze it, and they're gonna be able to build safe housing parks there, while this area is worth a lot more and it's worth it. You could find its useful function. I am not going to give you any details here, nor am I going to give you a number of examples in the explanatory memorandum. These are the local cases for which I would like to receive supporting proposals and supporting votes. I might have to mention the bike rides. I have received over 700 signatures, which I have of course also forwarded to the pro-government representatives, where the Mosonszolnok citizens would like to have a bicycle route linking them with Mosonmagyaróvár. This would, by the way, become an integral part of the existing bicycle road network, which I think should be an important new aspect of the design of bicycle roads. Unfortunately, they didn't get a meaningful answer here, not even a promise that this could be done in a foreseeable time. [[11.50]] But I could also mention the lack of a bike route connecting Duna Island and Halászti, where schoolchildren and preschoolers in the area are forced to get to Dunasziget on an unacceptable low-quality road, which is an important target in many respects, as there are ecological programs and camps for students, schoolchildren, as well. So this short section would be worth building, I think, and then it would be safe to get from, say, Győr, both from Mosonmagyaróvár to Dunasziget. The other large area, which does not concern my region, was therefore tabled in the context of agriculture and rural development. Since we are members of the European Union and have a common agricultural policy, our country has been subject to numerous restrictions in this regard, and we have endured these restrictions because of subsidies coming from the European Union. This is part of the deal, and all the Member States appreciate this in the same way. But the powers have been reduced. However, there remain three areas where Hungary has a serious opportunity, but it does not make good use of it. The first is the legislative environment, and I am not talking about it, because there is no place for this in the debate on the budget, and we are doing this on parliamentary debates. The second is aid policy. You could also say here that there is no room for manoeuvre in our country, because that 12,000 in the next two years is HUF 18 000 billion, which comes in this title, the European Union resource, and that is true. However, compared to previous budget cycles, the Member State's room for manoeuvre has increased in scale. On the one hand, this is bad news, as the more wealthy Member States can do more to support their own farmers, but on the other hand it is good news, because this increase in room space gives us the opportunity to support the Hungarian countryside and agriculture in a way that is consistent with the state's agricultural policy. And the fact is that in your communication you claim that you will take maximum advantage of the Member State's contribution, but by bugging the budget, I have come to the conclusion that, indeed, HUF 40 billion is missing, so if Hungary really wants to support its own producers by 100%, then this amount of added money is needed. I will try to deal with this with amendments. It is also possible to refine the system of distribution of these subsidies, since let's face it, that the difference between the countryside and the city in Hungary is in vain, this huge sum of HUF 12 000 billion, which, let's say, has only arrived for this purpose in two years. While in Austria we saw a similar imbalance between the rural standard of living and the urban standard of living, they were able to reduce this difference mostly from these sources and, obviously, from their own funds, and perhaps even slightly to reverse it, that today Austria has become a synonym for a quality life in practically rural or small towns. I would urge you to take these aspects into account when making use of them. Also, the third area in which progress in agriculture should be made is property policy. Here is the biggest free hand of the Member State. You have set aside 4 billion forints for the purchase of land, and given the previous year's practice, it is suspected that this is not planned to be used either, although this would be a very, very important tool for Hungary, with which you can get involved in estate planning and estate policy. I suggest we double this amount, because the 4 billion forints you gave us are a total of 1300 hectares of average domestic land prices, which is only a fraction of your oligarchs and land. If I pick out a pet at random, the land of which is at least two or three times as much as you plan to use to buy land all over the country. These are the most important amendments that I wanted to argue for, and I hope once again, I am not naive, but perhaps there will be one among them that you think is worthy of support, and this will bring us a little closer to the common position, because the aim would be to adopt a budget for the citizens of Hungary that is forward-looking and that will help them in everyday life. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2021-05-20-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-20-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would have liked it if my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar explained that in the coming years more resources were available for agriculture than ever before, and he would have also said with Tibor Bana that in the last ten years, compared to 2010, the region of the Western Transdanubian region has been able to move forward 20 places, thus preventing many regions from developing in the European Union, as there has been so much development, so much investment and positive activity for those living there, which has also made the region of Western Transdanubia one of the most dynamically developing regions in Hungary. More than that, the Central-Transdanubian and Central-Hungarian regions have developed, so the 20 places that your region has also moved forward, which, I think, is a wonderful region for Hungary, yet worthy of recognition, and thanks to the Hungarian people living there and the government's policy, it has been able to reject 20 seats, 20 other more developed European Union regions, including German, Austrian and French regions, which could be put behind it by the Western-Transdanubian region. I think it is a very important and objective, factual thing when we talk about these developments. Obviously, as you approach your primary, you will also try to campaign with local affairs. It is right that local affairs are brought to Parliament, it is only important to mention the results so far in fact, and the investments that have started and are in progress, for example, in the Western-Transdanubian area, but also throughout Hungary, are forward-looking investments that improve the quality of life of the people living there and which contribute to the economic growth that all Hungarian workers can benefit from equally, and I consider this to be the right direction. I would also like to join the general budget framework here, because the entire budget, the budget for re-launching the economy, serves to ensure that in Hungary the development that has been unbroken until the beginning of the coronal virus epidemic in the last six or eight years, we catch up with it, start again, continue where we left off in early 2020. There are already positive figures in this regard, as Hungary is at the forefront in terms of grafting. In recent days, we have also preceded the United States in population-proportional grafting, and this is also the result, and thanks to the work of the Hungarian people, the government's smart economic policy, that even with the closure of the third wave, Hungary's first quarter growth data plus 1.9 percent when the European Union average is 0.4 percent minus, i.e. the decline and the euro zone average is minus 0.6 percent. In this environment Hungary and the Hungarian economy were able to produce an additional 1.9 percent increase. Before I get to the details of the budget, I would like to respond to my fellow Members in the last four hours when we listened to them, especially to Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife, Klára Dobrev, because she spoke to the Hungarian budget debate as a Member of the European Parliament. I think that the EU and Hungarian legal systems make it clear that the primary task of MEPs is to control the European Commission. I think it is right that a MEP should also speak in the Hungarian Parliament debate, but we have heard very few speeches from, for example, Klára Dobrev or the other left-wing Members in recent months about why the purchase of vaccine in Brussels is so slow; why they have been chewing on a vaccine passport for months instead of getting a vaccine, because the passport does not cure people, it does not save lives, the vaccine does; what corruption charges are being made for certain Commissioners in the European Commission on the purchase of vaccine; why European citizens have concluded unfair contracts with large vaccine manufacturers. Because I think that's what a Member of the European Parliament should do at this time. Your primary task would be to inform the European Commission of the delays and delays that have taken place and why it has put European citizens' lives in jeopardy. The defence against the epidemic is closely linked to the fact that Klára Dobrev said at the beginning of his speech that he considers it a blank cheque that there is a reserve forecast of a fair size in the Hungarian budget, an extraordinary and a general reserve. Each year, the honourable left-wing Members in recent years would spend in advance a multiple of their budget amendments at the expense of the general reserve. And last year, for the first time, we were faced with how bad it would be if we listened to left-wing Members on the issue of the general reserve, who would like to use the general reserve and the reserve on extraordinary government measures in advance each time. [[12.00]] After all, when the corona virus appeared in Hungary in March 2020 and the pandemic hit Hungary, there was the general reserve that could be touched when masks, protective equipment, rubber gloves, ventilators had to be placed in battle lines and obtained from different parts of the world, mostly from China. If we had listened to left-wing representatives in the 2021 budget debate and in the 2020 budget debate, there would not have been enough reserve, there would not have been an immediate financial basis for getting the necessary defence equipment to set up the necessary infrastructure to build the Kiskunhalas epidemic hospital, to increase the capacity of certain hospitals by installing oxygen and developing infrastructure. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, when Klára Dobrev comes here and says that she has made up other programmes against the general reserve, it is a threat to the security of the country and to the health of the Hungarian people. I would not comment on his anti-church speeches, as he repeatedly attacked church subsidies, religious and public tasks, and church renovation subsidies to Klára Dobrev, but this is not so surprising. Two days ago, the Democratic Coalition's faction office must have celebrated the 70-year-old birthday of the State Church Office. Thank God, we must celebrate or remember this birthday without such an office, although Klára Dobrev's speech shows that it could still be next year; that if Klára Dobrev came to power, they would set up another state church office. We are very happy that there is no, and we thank the churches for their work as a social builder, value creator, community organizer, which he constantly and systematically attacks. We know exactly what you're referring to, Madam honourable Member, when you deny it, you're trying to keep it quiet and you're trying to rewrite the past in the context of crisis management in 2008-2009. A few months ago, in an honest moment, Klara Dobrev said that they managed to save the banks in 2009, but not the people. That is what we have said and have seen before, fellow Members; we are glad that honesty has reached the Democratic Coalition, the Gyurcsány Party. After all, that was the crisis management, and I would like to talk about it later, which was based only on austerity, people's distress, difficulties in the situation of Hungarian families and tax increases. He also said to Klára Dobrev, now and in an interview that they were ready to return the stolen property. Well, how long have we been asking for this, fellow Members? There are 192, most of which are profitable public companies, which you privatized, mostly at a lower price; there are 160 billion of the metro line 4 that was stolen; there is the harmful PPP construction, the M5 and M6 motorway, in the harmful PPP structure, the state loss of HUF 2853 billion; there is the many tens of millions of contracts for Csaba Czeglédy, the criminal lawyer, even now during the emergency crisis. Since when do we wait for the stolen property to be returned, honourable left-wing representatives? Klára Dobrev claimed that if she came to government, he would throw this budget away, grind it down, and have Ágnes Vadai and László Varju bring a container into which he would grind this budget. Klára Dobrev said that he would grind down and abolish the budget that would grant tax exemption, personal income tax exemption to people under the age of 25, which includes the largest family support amount in Hungary's history, including the home creation discount, defence expenditure, the economic re-launch action plan, and which includes the second phase of the retirement of the 13th month pension that they have taken away. Ferenc Gyurcsány and the left say no again, not for the first time in history, to family support, pension increases, home-building benefits, to the expansion and development of the army, and to help the economy and Hungarian entrepreneurs. And obviously he doesn't need a budget, because here he said that everything will be free, that the rent, pensions, everything... nothing has cover, so we know this story: this is when we run to the IMF, which is when left-wing governments and left-wing representatives run to the IMF, so that they can tell the Hungarian people that the IMF, the World Bank, the European Commission has asked us to live with austerity all the time. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, there is a huge difference in dealing with the economic crisis of 2008-9, otherwise less so, and with the current situation. The first is how we came to the first moment of an economic crisis. In 2008-9, an indebted, weakened country, weakened by robbery, arrived at the threshold of a crisis. In 2006, when there was an abundance of money in the world and all countries were able to develop, Hungary was the world leader in the areas of government deficits and government deficits. I'm sorry, I don't want to exaggerate, not the world leader, the war-torn Lebanon was the biggest, we were the second place. We arrived at the crisis situation in 2008-2009; the left-wing response, obviously similar to the Bokros package, is a tax increase and austerity for all crises. You, honourable left-wing Members, simply cannot escape their attachment to austerity and tax increases, and they cannot understand that if we look at the last thirty years, then all left-wing crisis management, which was built on austerity, and only so, has failed. In essence, by 2010, the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian state were in a close state situation; our country was only on the respirator of the IMF you called here, thereby giving up a significant part of its sovereignty and giving it to foreign capital. They left the government and the country in a state of bankruptcy. What happened? Let us also say concrete measures, because what did you think could be done to deal with this crisis? And how paradoxical is left-wing crisis management, that while more money is being taken from businesses, more money is being taken from families, while deficits and public debt continue to increase. Well, how's that? Somehow, my fellow Members, math doesn't come out. Well, how is it that, even in a crisis situation, when the costs of the crisis are burdened on Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses, they are still able to increase deficit and public debt in record amounts? Let's see what happened. The family tax relief has been lifted. Family home-building benefits, home-building programs and favourable housing loans have been abolished. Forints 600 billion were withdrawn from patient care. Klara Dobrev talked about the need for that staff, doctors, nurses, health workers, when the country restarts after a health epidemic and will be needed in the coming years. Well, then why send out 6,000 medical personnel in the middle of a crisis? They closed 3,000 schools. This mainly affected small settlements, Hungarian villages; teachers were dismissed, and those who were kept had a significant rate of leasing. The left-wing representatives and Klára Dobrev talked about the situation of pensioners and pensions. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, you have taken a month's pension from pensioners and have significantly reduced the real value of pensions. Only in those three years the value of pensions decreased by 10 percent in real terms. They left pensioners on the side of the road; they took a month's pension from them and significantly reduced the value of their pensions. Gas prices were tripled and electricity prices doubled. The European Championship Reziars hit Hungarian families and Hungarian pensioners. They've also increased taxes, it's your favorite activity. They've increased personal income tax, increased VAT, increased excise duty, and the thing is, what you've been talking about as a hit theme this past year, you've reduced sick pay by 10 percent. When there was almost 12 percent unemployment, when hundreds of thousands of people were left on the side of the road, abandoned and left behind, one of your crisis management suggestions was to reduce sick pay by 10 percent. What an inhumane crisis management, what an inhumane policy you were pursuing at the time! [[12.10]] It was already revealed in the Bokros package, but in 2008-09 the whole country learned that you cannot be expected in a crisis situation; not because they are sneaking away and trying to pass on crisis management to someone else, but because they make life harder for Hungarian people, making life difficult for Hungarian businesses and Hungarian families. In your day, having children was almost the same as being poor. It was quite clear that your crisis management did not work, but was harmful to Hungarian society. That is why I am pleased that the current government wants to remedy the crisis through grants, increase the amount of investment, increase family support, increase the incentives for home creation, constantly expand the benefits granted to businesses, and, moreover, I know that you have never heard of this reduction in taxes. The day before yesterday, we discussed in Parliament the tax laws, how we will tax next year, the Secretary of State was here, and he introduced the bill. We provide tax exemptions for young people; we reduce the tax on labour by 2 percentage points; we introduce a tax, a contribution to vocational training; we reduce the rate of small business tax by constantly tax reductions to help Hungarian families, workers and Hungarian businesses. The thing is, you have never heard of a crisis that can be dealt with through tax cuts and support policies and investments, because you always have the old reflex, the austerity and the tax increase. It is very important that the Hungarian economy has come a long way, and has been on an evolving path since 2010, because if we look at Eurostat data, we can see from the regional data that all seven Hungarian regions have been able to advance in the development ranking of the European Union's regions compared to 2010, so they have been able to overcome and prevent other European regions in more wealthy, more developed Western countries. All seven Hungarian regions were able to move forward. When you are alarmed here and you tell us how bad the situation is and look down on the Hungarian people who live in poorer settlements or regions, you should be aware that all seven Hungarian regions have been able to move forward in recent years. Let us look at how the financial situation of Hungarian society has evolved in recent years, and how the budget has helped this. Compared to 2010, one and a half million people are short in salaries. With four million people in Hungarian society, four million people have more money for unexpected expenses than they were in 2010. 2.4 million more people can go on vacation for a week than they could in 2010. Since 2010, the number of people unable to heat their own apartment has decreased by 650 thousand. The number of people affected by severe material deprivation has decreased since 2010, from 2 million 234 thousand to 64 percent in Hungary, and by 1 million 421 thousand in Hungary. The number of people living in households with very low working intensity has also decreased significantly by 50,000 since 2010. One and a half million people were at risk of direct eviction in 2009, so many people we can sum up, at least so many people left on the left side of the road quite simply. And do you know why the Eurostat data I just quoted is due to a significant reduction in poverty in Hungary? We are not yet where we want to be, no one has said that, we have a lot of work to do, but it is clear that the direction that the Citizen-National Christian Democratic Government has set is right. The work-based society, where businesses need to be helped, taxes should be reduced, investments should be increased, and this recipe has worked for everyone and decent pay, and this recipe has led us to the fact that we were among the top riders of Europe in terms of economic growth, employment and unemployment were one of the lowest figures in Hungary before the epidemic. And what is a joyful development is that in March this year 4 million 616 thousand people worked in Hungary, this is more than a year ago. This means that we can fulfill our commitment that if there is work, there is everything, and as many jobs as the virus destroys, we will create at least as much. I would also like to talk about how family support is expanding, because this is an extremely important topic, and many people are talking about it. Every year, often every six months, we bring in legislative proposals that you reject regularly, because you have not yet been on the side of Hungarian families, and we are expanding family support. In 2010, in the final left-wing budget, which left-wing representatives then called the budget for a fresh start, look at the parliamentary protocols as a great, stable, enforceable budget, how László Varju or other left-wing politicians praised that budget! , in which 960 billion HUF was available to support families. Do you know how much this will be next year? 2778 billion forints. Three times as much money is available in just 11 years as you thought it would be spent on families. This includes, of course, the elements of the family protection action plan, including support for home creation, including the family tax allowance that has left hundreds of billions of forints for Hungarian families in recent years, and this is one of the widest benefits, since 98 percent of the right holders use family tax relief. From this year's school year, which is almost finished in schools, all students receive the textbook free of charge from 1.2 million students. We can remember, on the other hand, how they privatized the various companies of the National Book Publisher for friends, and how Ferenc Gyurcsány and Ferencs organized the entire textbook supply in private, guaranteeing them the absolute not fair, but the unfair-sized profit. We can remember that Ferenc Gyurcsány's business partner acquired the Book Publisher at that time for 3.2 billion HUF, while there was also a HUF 1 billion larger purchase offer. Do you understand that, fellow Members? ! Because Ferenc Gyurcsány's business partner is someone who can get the state's assets at a lower price. In Ferenc Gyurcsány's time, an average textbook package cost HUF 30,000, a family of three children only had to spend 120 thousand forints on textbooks at the start of school, and every student has a free textbook from this year's school year. We can also remember how few people were involved and how little money was available for children's meals in left-wing budgets. We have repeatedly raised the framework for holidays, school-free and discounted children's meals, and we have quadrupled your amount of money. You have abandoned, dismantled and delivered the villages, while my fellow Members have already talked about the.Hungarian village programme, how infrastructure can develop, from the sidewalk through the medical office through the local government offices through kindergartens, schools, nursery schools. There can be life again in the Hungarian villages, and there can be a boom again in the Hungarian villages, after you have closed the schools there, stopped the train stations, even stopped the train lines, and all the resources have been taken away from them. And while you are talking about the support of local governments here, we clearly remember that in 2008-9, basically all municipal resources were taken away, but the tasks were assigned to the municipalities. They have implemented a policy where local authorities have faced an increasing challenge, with decreasing resources. That is why we came to the conclusion that one of the first tasks after 2010 was to start the debt consolidation of municipalities. The central government had to take over a debt of HUF 1300 billion from the municipalities, because you let them in debt, let them burn out, left them on the side of the road. And you are talking about municipal subsidies, when every year in the past years the support for municipalities has increased in the Hungarian budget? You usually say no to the budget in which we increase the support of municipalities every year. And it is not true, it is a despicable lie that opposition-led municipalities will not receive support. Well, in recent times, we have seen the support of Szeged, its troubles, the Eger and the various municipalities and how many running projects there are, there is development, how many improvements are being made to the quality of life of the people living there in these cities under opposition-led municipalities, financed by the government from EU funds or from their own national resources. It's just that you always think that people are for the local government, and that the local authorities are for the people. And when left-wing district leaders do something so shameful here in Budapest that they don't want to mow the grass, they don't want to mow the lawn in different parks, they just put up a sign that . It's a symbol of the new left-wing laziness that you put up a sign that the bee-legged, and that's why you don't mow the lawn; and that's when the allergy season comes, which is why the allergic people who live there are going to suffer, because you're not willing or lazy to mow the lawn in the districts, and you're going to say that it's a bee-legging. That's left-wing politics. That's what God saves us from. [[12.20]] The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, there is more for education this year. With HUF 735 billion more in the 2022 budget for educational purposes than was achieved in 2010. And that's true in all areas. They cannot show any areas, this is true of defence, it is true of health care, it is true of municipalities, it is true of education, social spending, family affairs, and it is true in each area that we spend hundreds of billions more forints on these areas than you have ever spent, while they have even taken me away from families, not only would they have given us, but they have taken me away. The fact, ladies and gentlemen, is that the current budget proposal serves to restart, helps the country return to the economic results, the figures, the numbers and the quality of life that we experienced before the coronal virus epidemic, and that we can go further on this border, and that we are at the forefront of Europe in terms of economic growth, employment, and that every Hungarian person can take one step, then two, and then three in advance, all Hungarian people. But the fact that you want to sabotage this and use the budget for pre-election campaign purposes again, we know that it is not important for you to support the Hungarian people and support Hungarian businesses, but for money and power that you are able to do everything for. We will support this budget, and if you stand by the people, you will support it. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-20-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Dezső, Member of the MSZP Group, notary of the Parliament, will be speaking. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2021-05-20-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! There is a beautiful tradition here in the Hungarian Parliament: the name of the law carries a message for every major law. This is particularly true of the Finance Act. I don't even know about a year when he didn't get a name. There are times when they come up with that name in advance, I suppose, based on its content. We have heard of a long time ago that a budget for social change or a budget for cheerful old age. They could be fantasy names. That's not what this is about. Obviously, it is a matter of some kind of content that this message conveys in relation to the name of the budget. I also see significant efforts being made in the media to make this public. On this basis, you have named this budget the re-launch budget. Looking back a little bit to the past, I think it's almost like what one of your party mates used to say that we're going to continue. This looks like something similar to me. Then another question is what people think about it. I've just been to one of these small forums or conversations where they say it's a budget for the robbery. It makes you wonder what else you can get out of here. Well, probably what's left. Then the thing that was in my head was when I read this message that the reboot budget, well, I had a little confusion in my head. Gentlemen, did something stop? Did they do something wrong or did something go wrong? You have to reboot something when something stops. This is in stark contrast to what you've been communicating. So far, from your communications, the economy is racing, roaring, not knowing where it's going to end, and now I'm reading this, this is a reboot. But it occurred to me that maybe six months ago your prime minister stood up and said that I was trying to quote that we were facing an unprecedented historical economic development. He was exemplary with Austria, if I remember correctly, that he was hip-hop, and we were able to catch up with Austria. Gentlemen, where are you? Where is this historic economic development plan? Because we haven't seen any of it since. Then the big question that arises is what's real. Now, did something stop here, or does it have to be rebooted, or is it speeding and roaring? Well, if we ask people, then they say something's gone wrong here, because they think they've been in serious trouble over the past year, and whoever could have been asked for help hasn't moved their ears. So something doesn't work, they feel it. So looking at this message or slogan from their point of view, I think it's a hit. If you look at the other layer, something from their point of view doesn't work, something's broken, because they sense that the money is gone, at least if you think about your oligarchs and their hunger for money. And if I've been trying to put the numbers together here during my budget study, then I've got a good 15 000 billion HUF gap that we're expected to take on some kind of loan. Speaking of credit, wherever I look in the country, credit, credit, credit, that's what I hear. Russian credit, Chinese credit, EU credit is not good because it's too cheap, but it's credit, credit, credit. Now, when you think about it, you say that, in fact, when you talk about credit and farm it, it's okay, it's not a curse word for credit. All you have to do is see if it'll make a good investment or not. I now sense that the Russian is this Paks, the Chinese now have more of it, these are not really reimbursable loans. Many people say that loans never return. There's a high probability that it won't pay off in my life. The other alarming event is that the investments to which you are investing these loans are not so-called self-sustaining investments. This means that every year after they have been completed, the State will have to spend additional amounts to ensure that they remain operational at all. So these are not good investments, and I think we have something to be afraid of. Looking at this debt: in 2010 it was HUF 20 000 billion. I think it's a recognized number by you, too. From what I understand, we are talking about HUF 45 000 billion here by 2022. Well, that's a huge amount. When I introduced this to some voters, one of them said they were stealing the future of our children. I couldn't really argue with him. And considering all this, what I've said so far, I think that the budget that you have made is not the budget for re-launching, but the budget for indebtedness. It is pointless unless we think that the amount spent on hobbying or tuning buddies is some kind of national goal, because then it is not pointless, and otherwise it is. We're not catching up on this budget, that's what's keeping us up. Tragedy for the nation, in my opinion. I would now like to speak to the budget about a sub-scheme that, in my view, is essential for people to live well in this country, and these are budget figures for the operation of municipalities, because, from the point of view of the division of power, I think it says a lot about how the power handles the municipalities, which are elected bodies. For the first time, I looked for progress on the financing of municipalities, which had already been promised several times. Well, I looked and looked, I couldn't find much. I have found that there is no substantial increase: in 2021 it was HUF 265 billion and in 2022 HUF 267 billion is planned. Well, that's certainly not a substantial increase. I've been trying to find out in the area of development that maybe there are the major amounts that were promised earlier. There was this program, maybe even there is, this program of modern cities. Development money there looked like HUF 135 billion in 2020, HUF 85 billion in 2021, and HUF 50 billion in next year. [[12.30]] Well, I wouldn't call this cutting-edge development idea, I wouldn't call it development. On such a foggy afternoon at the end of the year, when they decide on such remains and other things, it will be scattered on football, church, or even hunting in an instant. After this, it seems that after the looting of local governments, there can be a kind of humiliating vegetation in the life of the municipalities, but unfortunately that is not true, and unfortunately, because the situation is even worse. So far, we have not considered that there are measures taken by the Orbán government in the last year that have made it significantly worse and that are still making the situation of the municipalities worse. The first such Fidesz invention is the so-called solidarity contribution. This means that if, in practice, one of the municipalities was able to manage a little better and provide quality education to the people living there, for example, they were deprived of education and were obliged to pay a kind of solidarity contribution with a tax character. This amount was HUF 43 billion in 2019. They are now planning 130 billion forints, which is three times what has been planned so far. If you look at it from a local government point of view, it's minus 87 billion forints. Here's the car tax. We're talking about a lot of about 90 billion, 40 percent of it belongs to the municipalities. The total amount was deducted from them and had to be transferred to the so-called disease control fund. This is basically another minus 35 billion in local governments' budgets. Otherwise, it is worth examining the name of the disease control fund. The ideology was that everyone had to contribute to the protection costs. The emphasis is now on....everyone. I've checked out who all the people in this disease control fund are or have to pay. No one but the local authorities. Then who is everyone who has to contribute? I didn't read the name of one oligarch, only the municipalities, the disease control fund, only they pay in. The business tax is halved, HUF 150 billion is affected by this story. Here they promised that the municipalities would receive compensation. Well, I'm looking at these compensations right now, but compensation's not a good word. Face money is the right word, and it's a disgusting term, and it's a solution, but you could call it lick money, and you can get so much money in it. For example, the capital couldn't get a penny of this. The fourth such story, with which the municipalities are trying to bleed out, is called free parking. This measure was introduced as an epidemic measure, which, by the way, is a laughing stock, and people are laughing at it. They couldn't figure that out anywhere in the world. I don't understand. Is everyone that stupid? But maybe that's not the real reason, that's probably it. There are local governments where this means a loss of hundreds of millions of forints a month. The effect of the measure is virtually zero from an epidemiological point of view, but there are other effects that city dwellers smoke daily: stink and unmanageable plugs. Their fifth measure was to tax the utility lines for a special Fidesz tax. It's hard for people to understand, but believe it or not, this government has a tax on water pipes every meter, and it's not a joke. I don't know what taxes are gonna come in, and then they're gonna put a tax on the chimney, the window, the pot, the glass, the pants. I don't know what's next. The municipalities have to pay because they own the plumbing. They were able to raise it four times. This is a billion-dollar scale for several cities. If we collect what I just said here, about 400-450 billion forints. In practice, the municipalities have become net contributors, since their operating aid does not achieve this. So what I said was that the big losers of next year's budget are the municipalities and the people through them, and then, as a final conclusion, we're all going to do it again, and we're all going to do it. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-05-20-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Dunai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-05-20-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know where Dezső Believing has been in the last year, but that he hasn't been in and out of Hungary and he hasn't read the news, he hasn't spoken to people, I'm sure. The fact that we are re-launching the economy, to question it, and what you have somehow said is what has stopped me now, I have used a worse word, it starts with a d, and I do not want to quote it between the walls of the House, there is a crisis all over the world caused by the corona virus epidemic. Millions of people lost their jobs, jobs, and died all over the world. The government worked in Hungary, and we also worked in the Fidesz-KDNP fraction so that we could start the economy again and people could get their jobs back. [[Loyal Dezso takes over the notary seat.]] You can say that today, but I can see that this part no longer interests my honourable fellow Member; it is also fleeing from this information, and I see that more people are working in Hungary today than during the period before the outbreak of the coronal virus. So, my honourable fellow Member, we are doing everything we can to make people work, protect families and, above all, protect life. You couldn't count on it when you had to fight the corona virus epidemic; it doesn't seem to count on us to restart the economy. The budget, ladies and gentlemen, is about numbers and goals. Today we have heard thoughts and speeches, and also yesterday, which all supported it, and I have the impression that my fellow left-wing Members have not read the budget numbers or the budget priorities. It is not a slogan that the 2022 budget is the budget for the relaunch of the economy and for families. These numbers are in this budget, which is behind the budget lines. For example, spending 5 percent of the time on family policy, family policy, despite a crisis. Not only did we withdraw from them, but we were able to expand them last year, even this year, and this is what we plan to do, step by step. So the support of families is the support of people. If we look at the 2022 budget, we have to say that each item is about families, because it's about people. However, I would like to talk about the narrowly taken family policy measures in my speech today. Our goal on the part of Fidesz-KDNP is to make sure that every child you desire can be born. The key demographic indicators have improved significantly over the last decade, thanks to the central governance of families. In Europe, the greatest increase in childbearing is in Hungary, the number of marriages, and the number of divorces is at a low point of six decades. Despite the crisis caused by the corona virus, we were able to further increase the budgetary resources allocated to families. Last year, we will increase funding for families by 8 percent, by 10 percent this year, and by 13 percent next year. [[12.40]] Thus, this year, despite the difficulties caused by the coronal virus epidemic, we are spending about 5 percent of GDP on families compared to 3.5 percent in 2010. In next year's budget, we provide nearly HUF 2778 billion for families, 21 percent more than in 2021, which we have to say is also unique in Europe. So we can even increase this amount and this number, because we want to increase it. In view of the inflation planned for 3 percent, this means that family support will not only increase nominally next year but also preserve their real value. This amounts to 4.9 percent of GDP. As I mentioned, it's even higher than 4.8 percent this year. The family policy represented since 2010 provides a stable basis for Hungary to emerge from the economic downturn caused by the Crown Virus pandemic. Because the family is the highest value, in this situation, the assistance tailored to the individual situation, as well as the support of childbearing and child rearing, can serve our country's goals in substance. The Fidesz-KDNP Alliance is therefore committed to encouraging children during and after the coronal virus epidemic, supporting families with children and improving their quality of life; helping to create and renovate their own homes, recognising the extra efforts of families and encouraging complex development of small settlements through a number of measures. The central element of the family-friendly building of Hungary is the family protection action plan, which again contains not a framework, but real measures, real laws and real figures, budgetary coverage in this year's budget, and so will it in next year. I would just like to highlight a few examples, which are all based on our laws and which are guaranteed in the next year's budget, and which are certainly included in the adoption of the budget. I have no illusions, and as usual this budget will probably only be supported by the Fidesz-KDNP Fragmentation Association, which means that, among other things, the developments, the economic measures and the family policy measures that I am talking about are unlikely to be supported by you. But what you're doing, I'd like to talk to you about it later. The Hungarian family tax system is based on the appreciation of work and child rearing, which employs one of Europe's lowest 15 percent of personal income tax rates, while helping to raise children with a family tax or contribution reduction. This year we decided that, as of 1 January next year, and this is also included in the 2022 draft budget, the absence of people under the age of 25 will also help young people to participate in the labour market, start their own lives and start their families. The minimum monthly amount of 24 250 HUF increases to more than HUF 50,000 from 1 January next year. This will also help us to restart the families where one of the parents died. The tax increase also applies to already paid and newly established orphan care. The same supportive family policy measure is the continuous increase in the amount of child care fees, which in 2022 reaches the minimum wage for 2022 and the care fee continues to increase by 5 percent. The amount of the baby care fee will now increase from 70 per cent of gross income to 100 per cent from 1 July. The amount of money will only be deducted and social security contributions will not be payable. So, as I said, this is a measure that will enter into force from 1 July this year, and the continuation of which is, of course, also included in the 2022 budget. In order to facilitate multigenerational home creation, from January this year attic construction will also benefit from a family home creation discount, i.e. the allowance corresponding to the amount of CSOK. For one child, the amount of support is HUF 600,000, for two children HUF 2.6 million and for three children HUF 10 million. These are also covered in the 2022 budget. If you agree with that, please support it, fellow Members on the left. They haven't, but it's still time to think. In addition to the CSOK, the two children can take out a HUF 10 million, at least HUF 15 million, and a 3-percent interest-supported CSOK loan. They are also included in the draft budget. The home renovation loan can be requested from 1 February this year, it can be requested again next year, and it helps those who do not have the self-power to claim home renovation support. If the parties concerned finance self-strengthening from this loan, they shall not be deprived of the aid. The renovation loan represents a loan of up to HUF 6 million, with a maximum interest rate of up to 3 per cent, with a maximum maturity of 10 years. This is not a tribute, it is a help, my honourable fellow Members, for young people and for children. In the framework of the village CSOK, the list of settlements where the village CSOK can be used for the purchase and/or expansion of used property and the associated preferential loan has been extended from 1 January this year. It is also included in next year's budget to release the mortgage to a certain circle. This also applies to construction loans because they have been extended. If there are several existing mortgage loans for residential purposes, they can be shared by the parties concerned. In that case, the order in which the mortgage loans with a view to reducing the aid are to be indicated. I could continue with the reduction of the housing tax or, in fact, with the advantages of self-esteem for a very long time. And I am very sorry that Dániel Z. Kárpát is not in the room, who used to say at this point in my speeches, sometimes it is followed by politely speaking, it is spoken out and yelled out that these are production numbers, production novels, production reports. Dear fellow Member, I also send you a message, these are not production reports, these are the real numbers, all of which have decisions and even a concept behind them, because we have goals, and according to these goals we settle our decisions, our laws, and accordingly we need to place them, and we need to provide coverage in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, Family policy is a Community state policy which considers the family to be the core of the national community. We need a system of relationships that protects and serves the basic unity of society, the family, and the people in the family. The most important objective of family support systems and policies is that people are free to make decisions about the founding of their families and the affairs of the children they undertake, without harming personal and family intimacy, and that families, parents, children and the elderly can also feel the community's supporters' attention. Ladies and gentlemen, After 2010, the family policy represented by Fidesz-KDNP is based on this set of values and has been drawn up accordingly and the government has drawn up the budget for 2022. You can see it there, too, and let me refer you back to a speech yesterday, where one of my fellow Members from the left said... it was a better fellow Member, by the way, so I was right. So on the left side, one of the better Members said that this is a campaign budget, it's an election budget. And then he said that what was in it was all wrong. Then I must ask now, honourable left-wingers, including my fellow Members, that this is now a bad budget in every section of their position, where we are creating jobs for people, where we are protecting their lives, and where we are re-launching the economy and giving extra benefits to families. Is this nothing to them? [[12.50]] And the other is, if you're saying it's nothing, don't say it's an election budget, because they say it's an election budget when the government gives it to people. He's not marrying me, he's giving me. In this way, the budget of the Fidesz-KDNP government has been an election budget since 2010, because every year we consciously raised the amounts that can help people, families, value and work. Nevertheless, let me also mention some of the priority items from next year's budget that are very important, which help people from a family policy point of view, give them a great deal of relief and are also included on the hedge side of the budget. Between 2010 and 2020, the amount of the piece increased from HUF 102 900 to HUF 225 400, so it was more than double. In the framework of the Csed, as I said, from 2021, the gross wage before birth is equal to 100 percent instead of 70 percent. Between 2011 and 2021, a total tax and contribution allowance of nearly HUF 3000 billion remained in families raising children. We introduced the first married people's discount in 2015, and a lot of people use it. Very popular is the ged extra, this is also popular for young people. The umbilical cord program has started, and despite all the rumors, I would like to assure the Hungarian people that the "grandmother's pension" introduced on the basis of 40 years' eligibility period will not cease. I hear that every year in my constituency, and the left-wing representatives are alarming me, including Jobbik, that we want to end it next year. We don't eliminate it, we invented it, we introduced it, we secure it every year, and it's covered in next year's budget. We also raised the child care fee, we introduced it instead of the care fee, and the fee for this is increased to HUF 123 900 per month for seriously ill and permanently disabled children. The number of cradle seats is constantly increased. We want to increase the number of seats to 70,000 by 2022. It's a very big commitment, but we're doing very well in this, too. My fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, has already talked about free or reduced meals, free textbooks, but also about the Erzsébet programme and the waiver of student loans. I'm not talking about these anymore. I'm not talking numbers. But I would also like to mention that this year is also a great help to couples who cannot have children, that medicines and tests used in fertility treatment have become free and will remain next year. Since 2018, nearly 83 thousand people have passed the language exam, and the state has also paid for this for HUF 2.5 billion. This will also be covered next year in the 2022 budget. The same applies to the CPR exam, many young people use it. We also extended the housing loans to the purchase of the used apartment, thus encouraging more people, as many families as possible, to get their own apartments. This will relieve them of the vulnerability to landlords. Similarly, a large number of people have lived with the support of large families to buy cars. It also matters a lot that mothers with four or more children receive a personal income tax exemption. Of course, this will continue, and it will also be included in next year's budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I could continue, but in the absence of time, I would not be doing this real-world budget report based on real figures, real decisions, if you like, to my fellow left-wing Members, including Jobbik, a production report, but I would also like to take a minute or two to consider, in contrast, what was before 2010 at the time of the crisis, what was the crisis at that time like in the time of the left-liberal governments. If we look at our expanding budget policy and family policy to help people, then theirs was a bankruptcy report. If this is a production report, then, my fellow Members, including Jobbik, your budgets were indeed austerity reports, so-called bankruptcy reports and bankruptcies. I just want to say one or two of these things. The Gyurcsány-Bajnai Association has made families poor. Remember, they've been chased into foreign exchange loans. All Hungarian families were damaged when regular child protection support was taken away on 1 January 2006 and the family tax relief of parents with one and two children, i.e. the family tax relief of the majority. In the case of children of three or more children, the family tax allowance was mowed from HUF 10 000 per child per month to HUF 4,000. They also shortened his time by a year. When you talk about the child, you always forget to say that you have reduced the duration of the child from three years to two years. Families with periods of insurance of less than one and a half years have also reduced their duration to just one year, or one third. The half-year insurance period for child-caring and child benefit has been doubled. The upper limit of the family allowance was reduced from 23 to 20 years. In other words, those who went to college and still had no income could not benefit from it. Of course, we have failed to restore these, and we have failed to correct that the methods that were then called bankruptcy or can be called bankruptcy, and that the aid that families can live and help them continue to be at their disposal. And we didn't talk at the time, but we don't have to talk about the fact that during the Gyurcsány governments, the price of energy increased fifteen times, the price of electricity doubled, and the gas tripled. At the end of my speech, I would like to address those Hungarian people, let me say, not to you, because, as I said, I have no illusion, my fellow left-wing Members, including Jobbik, will probably not vote in favour of the budget for the re-launch of the economy and the support of families, just as they have never done before, who, listening to this debate or following this short version, can, in an interesting way, hear in the press numbers, phrases that the Fidesz government does not give anything, and they can also hear that we are working for the people, and we are expanding the opportunities that we can make life easier for Hungarian people. Everyone can decide based on their own home wallet, within their own family budget, who's right. We can argue here, but we probably won't be able to convince each other. But Hungarian citizens are of age and are informed. Although according to Peter James, people in the countryside are not informed and allow me to distance myself from it here and here, also as a representative in Budapest. We respect voters, and we trust that they will be able to make a responsible decision that in the future they will want to see a government in Hungary that is doing for people, which, for example, if there is a problem with the global crisis and the coronal virus epidemic, will immediately correct it, and will be the first to take the best measures in the world and support families. Or they want a government that talks nonsense, promises seven months of snow, but when it's on the government, it does exactly the opposite, not only in the making of laws, but also in the drawing up of its own budgets. [[13.00]] You, my honourable left-wing colleagues, including Jobbik, have hit people with austerity budgets, and we are trying to help people. We know that there is always a lot more to give and we want to give, but there is a budget framework, there are priorities in it, and these are our priorities now: re-launching the economy, protecting life, of course, and helping families. When we talk about families, we also talk about families with no children, couples, families with children, single parents and grandmothers, grandpas, great-grandmothers, great-grandpas, and young people who still live in their own parents' families. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to accept the budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-20-48	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I give the floor to Mr Lajos Oláh, I would like to inform the House that Mr Sándor Burány, deputy leader of the Dialogue Group, informed me that in the debate the group would renounce its further timeframe for the benefit of the MSZP Group. I would ask the technical staff to correct the timeframes as announced. Thank you very much. I am speaking to Congressman Lajos Oláh of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-20-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State Ladies and Gentlemen! One thing has been left out of the voice of the Fidesz Member, who spoke before me, and it begins with the fact that there has never been such a sovereign debt in Hungary as it was under your government. Madam Member, there has never been such a debt. And that's not the end! There are projects in the pipeline that will increase this debt by hundreds of billions of HUF. You've made a budget for the rich, giving it to whoever's got it anyway. They're making a tax system that gives it to whoever has it anyway. The poor, who should be given, where social responsibility really has to appear, you leave them on the side of the road. But we know why, it's very simple. That's where the stats are. They're less likely to vote. You brutally give only those who you think are voting, and those who do not usually vote give much less to them. You know, Congresswoman, you know, honourable Fidesz Members who are interested, and here it is-- that a foreign football player we support, with the money of all of us, is already making eight times as much money as a nurse. You've made a budget where alien legions make eight times as much as the nurses who worked here under the virus 24 hours a day in our hospitals. You have created such a country, where there are state-paid football players at football matches, and you cannot even see a Hungarian name, there are none raised here by an academy. As with the EU funds, you have failed to agree on this budget. We're used to it, and you only agree when you want to make party propaganda, but when it's really important, you forget it. There has also been a lack of consultation with pensioners, because if you would agree, Madam honourable Member, you would introduce the Swiss indexation. But they don't agree, you've forgotten this thing. If you wish to agree, you would not give such a humiliating pension increase, but indeed something that inflation would justify. But as you forgot to check with the pensioners, you also forgot to check with the residents of Elizabeth and Terézváros, for example. We have also done this discussion for you, and I will read briefly the proposals that they ask you to fit into the budget and support them. But you know what's weird? In both districts, Fidesz MEPs tabled an amendment to the budget on what they wanted money for in the district. I submitted this in writing to you earlier, but you voted against it. This is your chance, at least to their own representatives of the local government, to vote for what they are asking! But you don't care about that either, and you don't usually care about local governments, and they're the ones with the people. In decent countries, during the crisis, local governments were helped and added resources. You have taken money from the municipalities, honourable government, you have not been interested in how much more difficult it will be to give different support to the people who live there. I've called several times State Secretarys and Ministers to come and see what kind of problem this is, how many people are lining up for aid packages, and it's the turn to grow from week to week. You didn't care about that, because I know inside, sitting in a leather seating set makes it easier to make a budget. I understand that it was important that you provided more than 500 million forints per day for various sports dogs. Another stadium: a grass heater, my fellow Members, was built in the middle of the epidemic, but you were not concerned about how to help the unemployed, they refused to take the opposition's advice in this, and to increase and push out the support of the unemployed. You didn't care about that. But the fact that the alien legionnaires' ankles didn't break out on the cold, wet grass, that's what you were interested in, they gave you hundreds of millions of forints. Well, look in the mirror when you do things like that, honourable Members, honourable government. What you do to Hungarian people is shocking and humiliating. Allow me to tell you what the people of Elizabeth are asking you to do because you forgot to ask them because they don't consult people. They do the budget in a smoke room: who wants some more money, which fidesz municipality, we give it to which football team, yeah, there is an academy abroad, let's give it to that, no problem, no matter this story. In Elizabeth, you are asked to provide 300 million forints to compensate for the social costs of the epidemic. Don't build a hospital somewhere on XI. In the district, they are asking that the Péterfy Hospital make building upgrades and tool development of 20 billion. Creating a digital classroom, creating conditions for distance learning in Erzsébetváros 300 million. You, Honourable Government, have failed students whose parents have not been able to effectively include their children in distance education. They didn't provide any resources. They didn't get there in a year and a half to have a central data bank for these digital clocks. Well, what did you do for a year and a half? ! Construction of an underground garage in Elizabeth City for 5 billion HUF. The soundproofing of condominiums along more busy roads is HUF 3 billion. Party quarter's dirt and noise removal expenses are HUF 1 billion, the establishment of a tourist information centre in Erzsébetváros 100 million forints. I know Erzsébetváros is not part of the Tourist Agency, where almost all of the suggestioners and commentators have received money, but it is the heart of the city where many tourists come. Do me a favor, they'll give you 100 million forints. Fragment of what friends have received, maybe they deserve it, this district and the tourists coming here, because there is no greater tourist density anywhere in the country. We ask for 1 billion HUF for a social housing program. Of course, it's also a request that the state appreciates that you don't want to cheat these apartments. Privatization of educational institutions in Erzsébetváros, old buildings, development of a playground for children with disabilities, multifunctional movement center in Erzsébetváros 300 million HUF. 'Cause there's no money for that, either, so that you can provide the children with disabilities with the resources to make them the right playrooms, the right gyms, and we appreciate them. You don't care. Entering the walls of Elizabeth city houses with plants for 300 million forints. We would also like 600 million forints for the development of a home and pediatric office and for the thermal insulation of buildings under local protection. [[13.10]] Restoration of the government's license to the ipa SME is HUF 450 million, and the loss of revenue caused by the economic downturn is HUF 1.1 billion. You know, these are the money you took from the municipalities that you could provide to the residents. Restoring the government's decline in vehicle tax revenues for HUF 110 million; restoring the loss of parking revenues due to government measures for HUF 500 million; replacing the loss of solidarity tax for HUF 950 million; compensating for the revenue of rents that had been cancelled as a result of the crisis for HUF 80 million. And, then, I would like to say some of what your Fidesz local government representatives have suggested, so, if you don't do anything else, at least give some money to your party: pneumonia vaccine for HUF 35 million; church subsidies for HUF 15 million; modernization of footpaths for HUF 8 million; disposal and renovation of waste collectors for HUF 20 million; introduction of regular allergy testing for HUF 7 million; construction of a civil house for HUF 40 million; continuation of the construction of a public space camera system for HUF 8 million; gift of Easter ham and vitamin package support for HUF 10 million because the potatoes are run out, let it be otherwise; indoor motion detection lamp for condominiums for HUF 4 million; support for families in need of HUF 5 million; creation of a new public toilet forint 30 million; support for Erzsétvárosi Híradó a Breuer Press Production Kft. 15 million forints. Ladies and gentlemen, That's what the people of Elizabeth are asking you to do, because if it's even important to anyone by the government or the Members, because they're usually released because it's not a big investment, you can't find your friends here so easily. But if the people who live here are important, do so by supporting our request. And so that you can't tell me that I didn't tell you anything about Teresa City, allow me to list what Teresa City people are asking for. Renovation of the public area next to the Opera House 300 million forints; to renovate the small underground, please be so kind as to pay 10 billion forints; housing support 300 million forints; to transform the area behind the Western Railway Station into a park 10 billion forints; and I would like you to write: not circus, artist training, but park. I know there's room in one of them, and the other one's only good for the tenants. But try one time to keep an eye on the residents, not the construction dogs. Air Conditioning of Terézváros educational institutions 1 billion; Terézváros Family and Child Welfare Centre expansion, floor construction 200 million HUF; Hunyadi Square Market Hall renovation work 3 billion; Soundproofing of Teréz körút houses 3 billion; Greening of the walls of Terézváros houses 300 million; VI. district street wooding 500 million HUF; thermal insulation of buildings with historic and local protection 300 million HUF;. Terézváros supports you with the cost of a coronal emergency social programme 300 million HUF; the development of digital classrooms and the creation of conditions for distance education 300 million HUF. In addition, you also took money from Terézváros to compensate for the withdrawal of business taxes by 2020 for HUF 700 million; compensation for vehicle tax withdrawal by 2020 for HUF 115 million; compensation for loss of free parking by 2020 for HUF 650 million, compensation for business tax withdrawal by 2021 for HUF 753 million, compensation for vehicle tax withdrawal by 2021 for HUF 115 million; preschool development educators and psychologists HUF 8 million; Opening of Epreskert 60 million HUF; Renovation of the 22nd municipal tenement building Aradi utca 265 million HUF; renewal of Csengery street with wooding 400 million HUF; modernization of the surveillance camera system 300 million HUF; renewal of the subway in Bajza-Bulcsú street with green surfaces 56 million HUF. And then again, with all due respect, I would like to ask you to put on the thicker pen again, and I would like to say to you once again the proposals of the Fidesz Members. It's appropriate to do it, otherwise we'll tell you there, at a municipal meeting, that you ignored their suggestions, that you didn't care what your fellow party members said. Bajza street primary school vertical playground 60 million HUF; Bajza street primary school gym space separator 2 million HUF, church grants 23 million HUF; Terézváros school excursions support 3 million HUF; Terézváros Health Service asset purchase 50 million HUF; adult dentist's office support 30 million HUF; Game Castle expansion and replacement of food elevator 40 million HUF; Terézvárosi Étméleti Intézményi Intézményi Home extension 15 million HUF. Dear Government, Ladies and gentlemen, It would be time for you not to fight with the municipalities, but to look at the municipalities as partners. We can say that this is what we will do in the new government, because the municipalities are the closest to the residents, and in many cases they know better what the things that should be guaranteed should be given to them locally. The task of a good government is to ensure that the conditions of the municipalities are met, so that you and the locally elected representatives make the right decision. That's not what you're doing, you're taking all the money away, you think that uncle has to solve all the problems everywhere, not the people who live there. They're not waiting for an uncle to tell us what to do, they're waiting for decent resources from these municipalities, and we're asking you to provide them. Make a country, my dear government, a country that's one year away, a year short, where a foreign legion football player doesn't earn eight times as much as a nurse, where during an epidemic they don't give money to heat the tracks, but they deal with what's most valuable: people living here. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-20-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Kristóf Szatmáry. I'll wait for you to put the microphone on, Congressman. Thank you very much. Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-05-20-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, This genre is not a genre of answering each other's speeches, but my fellow Member Oláh unfortunately urges me to speak after his speech. On the one hand, Congressman, I know you're naive, but I would ask you, staying on the ground of fact, not to set the wages of football players to state aid. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: What is it?! The president's ringing the bell.]] I have listened to you, Congressman, it has not been easy, but I have been honoured to listen to you. As the honorary leader of one of Budapest's sports clubs, I signal that the state does not give any support to the wages of football players. Tao resources can only be used for reinforcements; once again, only for clarity. By the way, if the congressman is so concerned about the well-being of the people of Elizabeth and what they deserve and what they get, I would like to remind you that it may not be necessary to do krypto currency mining in the municipality and to use it as a paying place for Csaba Czeglédy. In the spirit of your political correctness, I have only said these two factors; or perhaps the catering companies there should not be driven away by the mayor. But everyone in their own home should try to clean up, I think, and then, Mr President, I would like to go back to my speech on the item on the agenda, which is about the budget. It would be worth comparing how this situation is actually taking place in several countries in Europe, so under what circumstances the budget for next year is being discussed, and I suspect that it is not as simple to adopt the budget everywhere as it is in Hungary, and this has, of course, a history. The last ten years have confirmed a very important experience, perhaps known to everyone, in Hungary, that is, when it will be the most important, when it will be achieved if a government adopts a conscious, long-term disciplined, balanced budget. And what happens when a crisis comes? [[13.20]] It is clearly visible in Hungary, the experience of the past ten to fifteen years has shown that a budget adopted in peacetime can be a wide variety, perhaps the following year, if planning is poor, budget policy is irresponsible, it does not even show itself the error, it does not cause a huge problem for the country. This could be illustrated by a biblical example of the castle built on the rock or sand, but I think most about the attitude of the opposition in the history of the three little pigs and the wolf, where it really doesn't matter what kind of house someone builds until the wolf comes in until a crisis hits. Practically, a person who assembles something from branches protects from rain at first sight, as does a man who builds the castle on strong cliffs, strong walls, and a country's budget from this point of view is a roof over the heads of people, a roof over the heads of businesses and families, because if the wind blows, if the outside forces are like that, they really feel how much this tabernacle protects. Indeed, now, in 2021, when we may say that we hope to overcome the worst crisis, we can really judge how a crisis should be dealt with and compare the economic policies of previous left-wing governments with that of the civilian government's conscious and disciplined economic policy, which can be called a trend over the past ten to twelve years. Because, indeed, when the problem comes, and this is the problem with the coronal virus epidemic last year and the beginning of this year, it can be said that it has devastated it, then it can be seen that the fabric that was raised by the governments of that time above the head of the country, or is based on strong, solid foundations like the current budget. It has to be said that the disciplined fiscal policy of the last ten to eleven years has been worth it, since the most important result of the past period, the economic policy of the last year is not in what my fellow Member Oláh mentioned here, where the public debt is, because if we want to be fair, this year's public debt has gone back to about the level where we were around 2010, but the only difference is that while the government debt not only ran away in crisis management by left-wing governments, but at the same time the result of the austerity policy at that time was that pension, wages, support and hundreds of billions of forints were taken from Hungarian families, Hungarian businesses in addition to the loss of public debt. While the huge result of the current crisis management is that, although public debt has gone back to a manageable level, this has given them the opportunity to be given the opportunity of a prudent economic policy 12 to 13 years ago, rather than being taken away from people, we are giving them support. We are going to rebuild the 13th month pension, rebuild family support, give back support to entrepreneurs that can keep jobs, give extra money to health workers, and we are going to help people, domestic businesses, to get through this crisis at all. Here we could finish and put an end to the sentence, because we would think that everyone would see that everyone understands the difference between the two economic policies, but let us also highlight a few specific things that I think are particularly important and welcome in such a critical economic situation if they are included in a budget. One of these can also be seen as an important support for the re-launch of the economy by reducing the social contribution tax. It has already decreased by 2 percentage points from 1 July 2020. This means that it will decrease from 17.5 per cent to 15.5 per cent. In this, however, there was an agreement between the various business organisations. In line with this, the small company rate will decrease by another one percent as of 1 January 21st, 11 percent. The employer's tax burden on wages is also welcome to decrease. They will be further reduced by 2 percentage points from 1 July 2022, whereby the vocational training contribution will be removed in order to reduce the administrative burden and the social contribution tax will be reduced by half a percentage point. The benefit of returnees to the labour market will automatically help workers who have lost their jobs as a result of a coronal virus epidemic. The employer will be exempt from payment of the social contribution tax and the vocational training contribution for the first two years of employment, and in the third year, the benefit of the social contribution tax will be 50 per cent of the minimum wage. In order to encourage investment, we have seen a multi-stage process in recent years, where the limitation on the amount of the development reserve in corporate tax has been abolished. In 2020, the 50 per cent profit margin of the development reserve was removed. This also allowed the use of the development reserve up to the total amount of pre-tax profits, taking into account the HUF 10 billion limit. From 21 onwards, the HUF 10 billion threshold will be abolished, which will make the development reserve fully applicable to profits. In order to encourage investment by smaller companies, the threshold for the title of development tax relief for small and medium-sized enterprises will be gradually reduced from HUF 500 million in three steps from 2020 onwards, the third stage will be completed on 1 January 2022, after which, even for small enterprises, at least HUF 50 million in present value and for medium-sized enterprises, at least HUF 100 million in present value. Small business tax has already been significantly simplified since 17th, and the barriers to entry and termination of the tax system have increased. In 21, the income and balance sheet limit of the withdrawal increased to HUF 3 billion, and in line with this, the revenue threshold for the loss of small corporate taxpayers fell to HUF 6 billion. The tax rate has gradually decreased in recent years in parallel with the social contribution tax burden, with a reduction of one percentage point from 1 January 21 to 12 to 11. And let me also mention the essential measures concerning the trade tax. Some have interpreted this as my fellow opposition Members have said that there is something the government has taken away from the municipalities. I would like to make it clear once again that the state has not taken any business tax from the municipalities themselves, it has simply left this tax at the start of the economy and left it at the company's. Many businesses have lived with this, and thank you very much, I can interpret it on behalf of the government, on behalf of a lot of businesses, because, indeed, in many sectors, in addition to or despite government subsidies, it was very difficult to survive this period, but even one percent of the business tax per company could amount to tens of thousands of HUF per company. This could also have resulted in the retention of certain workers. The current budget also shows that this benefit will be available until the settlement in May 2022. [[13.30]] Overall, I could say that it remains important for us to discuss next year's budget in time, despite all the crises, now in May. I remember the debate when the Hungarian Parliament did this for the first time, that it discussed the budget during the spring, and we heard the opposition mention all kinds of irresponsible things. The fact that we were able to keep this during a pandemic, or at such a level of control, the country's budget could be planned at such a level that, even in such a crisis situation, it was possible to know exactly what every Hungarian enterprise, every Hungarian family, could expect in the next year, I believe, and I believe that this fund carries predictability, planning and the possibility of development. And once again, it is a special pleasure that this otherwise special Hungarian regulation has been kept in such a difficult situation. Let me point out that at the end, perhaps because of my expertise, I have spoken a little bit more about businesses, but let me mention that there are 6-7 points that I think, despite all the difficulties, it is possible to say in a positive context about the 2022 budget, and precisely because, while here in my speech, I have highlighted the positive changes in the economic environment and the situation of businesses, practically everything in the 2022 budget, but it can be said that it contains positive elements for all the social sectors that help to emerge from the crisis, to survive the crisis. Let me just highlight the 16th. as a representative of the district and part of Zugló, that there have been a lot of requests and positive feedback, and they consider it a very positive decision to keep the 13th month's pension back and gradually reinvigorate it in 2022 in order to support pensioners. It is equally important, and has been attacked many times, but it is only the sour one, based on the principle of the vine, that the opposition, but for many young people under the age of 25, is an excellent initiative, and it will help a lot of young people to create a world of work and self-sustainment. I wouldn't go past it, just because it affects my own constituency, it's a budgetary resource for continuing health promotion. We have already heard about the program. Healthy Budapest, and there are essentially huge investments in Budapest and its surroundings. We hope that these will be completed in time and can be put to health. The enlargement of support for families is also an essential element of the 2022 budget, which has been mentioned several times here, and I can only confirm this support. And indeed, there are a lot of programmes, ideas, and improvements that mean supporting environmental protection and leisure activities. The good news is that they can continue in the next period. So, on the part of the Fidesz faction on the whole, I could say that, despite all the crises, we can negotiate today a budget that will bring people extra money, give businesses plus hope for Hungary to start over as soon as possible, and that even 2022 could be about continuing or exceeding where this crisis reached us at the end of 19 and 20. This is a budget for catching up and rebooting, and we will therefore support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-20-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group of the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2021-05-20-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Then let us continue the debate that ended last night; I think that we have a lot of questions to discuss. A little more generally, it is quite clear to all of us that every year the most important debate in the Parliament is the debate on the budget, because it is here that we can practically look at the way in which decisions are taken by the government, what policy it pursues. In such a debate, it must always be stressed, although, in your case, I think that Hungarian society knows precisely that it is not what you are saying, but what you are doing. So now, after 11 years, you can judge the results of your governance, judge the impact of your governance, your decisions on the whole country, all social groups, and see exactly what the figures submitted show in the budget. What I can say, in this regard, is that what you have said about your work for the past 11 years, and what you have just said as a propaganda text, as a campaign text on the budget, does not have much to do with reality. In order to have a substantive debate on the budget and even to have a budget properly put forward, there are many conditions that need to be met. You are saying strongly here in the pre-written campaign texts that this re-launch budget has been heard from Congressman Szatmáry, also from Mónika Dunai, from everyone on the government side, but what we can say is that it is practically a campaign budget, which, in other words, will lead to a revival of the future. Therefore, to present a responsible budget, they would first have to have a clear assessment of the situation and a realistic assessment of the situation. And you, as far as I'm concerned, are not fit, and you have no intention of being realistic about the state of this country. Basically, we should have discovered these basic system problems, which, by the way, we can say that in some cases they have not been able to deal with in the last 11 years. We have had a lot of discussions about these fundamental problems, and, yes, there are a lot of problems, a lot of systems that didn't arise after 2010, but, let's say, decades of challenges, decades of affairs, problems, problems that this government didn't manage to deal with, but you are, as if you weren't willing to know about these issues, and in this way you're not trying to answer a lot of important questions, which, in turn, basically determine the lives of Hungarian people. They also did not face how serious, how serious a crisis your insufficient economic protection has caused here during the crisis of the epidemiological crisis. You embellish yourselves in an amazing way about how successful this economic protection has been, even though we can give a long list of examples of what measures have been missed to support families and small businesses in the most difficult situation, and from the other side we could also give a long list of examples of you taking such outrageous measures, using the money of Hungarian taxpayers, which did not help Hungarian society, but sustain the enrichment of your own lunar yards. One of the outstanding examples was that, under government authority, Lőrinc Mészáros's hotel chain was granted state aid of HUF 18 billion, while Lőrinc Mészáros withdrew a dividend of HUF 11.5 billion from its construction companies in parallel. So while you said no to the support of the most difficult families, you said no to the extension of the job-seeking allowance, you listened to the Hungarian taxpayer's money to keep Lőrinc Mészáros on the face of his enrichment. This was a betrayal of Hungarian interests in an epidemiological situation during a severe crisis. Nor have you, nor have I been able to say that the intention has not been to reevaluate the effects of such a shocking pandemic and to express the fundamental changes that should be made in economic policy. This can be seen, not only if it is the Hungarian economy, but also when we look at the economy of Europe as a whole and the challenges and the effects of the crisis, that we cannot go on according to the economic policy logic that has happened so far. A crisis-resistant, powerful patriot, economic policy towards the local economy should be pursued, rather than preparing for such a crisis to be as resilient as possible. Compared to this, you continue to submit to the great powers of both China and Russia, and are making the Hungarian economy increasingly vulnerable, and in a shocking way you are using the resources that should be used to achieve a truly patriotic economic policy. [[13.40]] You too, although in rhetoric here and there the XXI. The challenges of the century, the effects of climate change and environmental destruction appear, as if writing a significant turn in the last year, are already understood and accepted, but at the same time it can be seen that they appear only at the level of the text, still not at the level of action. So here you are just talking about the fact that it is indeed the greatest challenge of our time, to meet the effects of climate change, but not to act yet. Moreover, we can see that, at European policy level, they are hindering the fact that on issues that we can really solve together, there should be substantial action and substantial change in those issues. The issue of climate change, we know precisely that it has a very strong connection to the migration crisis, and that is one of the most important things we can do to reduce the causes of migration. We agree that tackling the migration crisis is a fate issue for the whole of Europe, a fate issue for Hungary as well. This includes issues, tasks that need to be carried out in national competence and at Member State level, while at the same time there are steps, tasks that require joint action and joint action. Obviously, we have always agreed here and we agree that immigration policy must be essentially national, but at the same time action must be at least at European level in many respects, for our part. Before I go further into the evaluation of the budget and your policy, allow me to respond briefly here on the second day of the budget debate to what we have heard from the government side and the party group. Yesterday we learned the position of the various political groups in terms of the budget, and it was quite shocking, but we can say that it was symbolic, which the two key speakers of Fidesz presented in the speech of the lead speaker. My colleagues have reviewed the fact that the Fidesz faction has shared with two speakers one speaker's speech. Your communication keywords were 18 times in the Fidesz lead speaker's speech on the 2022 budget: the opposition, the Gyurcsány, the left, the anti-vaccination, the Kamuvideo, and the others. So you used these key words 18 times when you were supposed to present the budget for 2022 to the Fidesz fraction. That's pretty amazing. I heard Lőrinc Nacsa's speech today, and I can say that in about 90 percent of his speech he didn't talk about the budget, he didn't talk about your politics, he talked about the evaluation of the past period, and he didn't talk about the plans based on budget figures, he constantly abused the Democratic Coalition. This is obviously a matter of taste, of course, who spends their time in a budgetary debate, but it also says a lot about the responsibility of the KDNP fraction, that their words in the 2022 budget are basically limited to one party. In fact, yesterday we had a surreal experience: Tamás Deutsch honoured the MEP in the Hungarian Parliament and spoke. We can say that his speech has brought a whole new quality here, obviously imagine enormous quotes for the adjective. And it was shocking, but at the same time it could be said that it was a confession that we heard from Congressman Tamás Deutsch. In a lengthy evaluation, he talked about how successful Viktor Orbán considered his past decade-long, eleven-year policy to be. This tells us everything about the impact that this policy has had on us. Because of the effects of an economic policy organised on a neoliberal basis, hundreds of thousands, hundreds of thousands of Hungarians were forced to leave the country because of consciously low wages, and thousands of families were torn apart because of your policies. And this has caused the nation such a tragedy that today one in six Hungarian children from motherland are born abroad. That's pretty amazing. And when we discuss these issues, it is so cynical, we can say that some members of your government respond with globalist and internationalist words, that there is no problem here, because there is only a common labour market, and that is how well it is, that such an apocalypse, such a terrible tragedy has happened, that hundreds of thousands of people have left the country. I would like to describe, my fellow members of the Government, the tragedies that have been caused when we look at individual regions. I can tell you that nearly 15,000 people from my city have gone from coercion in a decade. The loss was shocking, and I can tell you that the Pécs did not leave because of an adventurous desire, but because you simply created conditions in which they could not establish the future of their families from their decent work or indebted themselves, but they were usually forced to leave the country because of living problems. Well, this situation is basically considered to be a success by one of your MEPs, Tamás Deutsch. This is quite amazing, but, by the way, it can be said that finally a delayed confession is in order for you to work abroad for hundreds of thousands of Hungarians to be forced to do so. But again, we can talk about indicators from different regions. This was discussed last night, but unfortunately it remains a fact that four regions in Hungary are among the 20 poorest regions in the Union, and these figures are visible... [[For signal:]] three regions. And if we look at different macro-data for regions, if we look at these numbers, we can see certain classifications, but the situation is obviously outrageous. I think the Secretary of State also agrees that, overall, it is saddening that some of our regions thus do not reach 50% of the EU average in terms of economic indicators. But if we look at, say, the South-Transdanubian region, then we know exactly what economic development, what investments, what perspective we can see, some of the factors, or even, Paks' impact, are distorting the region's numbers upwards, and if we compare it to say, in some other European regions with similar situations, what kind of economic development, what investment, what perspective we can see, then, unfortunately, we have to find that the lag is shocking. But I'm used to setting an example. I have had the pleasure of serving national interests in the Committee of the Regions for three years, so I have a relatively large number of comparisons of how and how the individual EU Member States have used development resources, along the lines of principles. And, for example, the Polish Transcarpathian region, which is the second poorest Polish region, has about the same characteristics as the Hungarian South Transdanubian Rzeszów is the seat of this region, and it is about the same size, slightly larger than Pécs, and we see quite different, quite astonishing dynamics there. This is simply due to their apparent use of development resources at a mid-level, regional level, rather than using professionalism. Therefore, they have been able to manage development resources much more effectively over the past period and prepare the country for the challenges of the 21st century. The problems of the century and the economic challenges of the new era. So what I can say is that your government has failed in this, too, and that tells you everything about you that Tamás Deutsch, MEP, has presented this as a success communication here. But these accusations you keep repeating, this globalist-internationalist: I think that it is in no way possible to call a government that is able to betray Hungarian national interests constantly, at any time, and can serve the great interests of Russia or China. Once again, it is not possible to call a government national, which is happy to sign all free trade agreements at any time, to support all free trade agreements, and to allow multinational companies to satisfy their appetite for profit, either for the protection of Hungarian workers' rights or for the protection of our natural resources. This is by no means a national policy. Since one of the Members of the European Parliament, one of the Fidesz Members, an independent Member, was already here, we would certainly like to hear the explanation that you promised very, very serious resources, HUF 1500 billion to Hungarian higher education and to Hungarian universities. In January, Minister Palkovics spoke to the press about the historic development of Hungarian higher education and promised HUF 1500 billion from the EU's recovery fund. We managed to get this down to 1,200 billion on the move, and then, after this shameful outsourcing of the model change, the vote took place here in Parliament, and two days later Minister Gergely Gulyás announced quite simply that he did not wish to replace this huge, promised development resource from European Union sources, promised to Hungarian universities. And if you look at it, right now, the second version of this recovery plan has been published, right, the first one has been rejected, the second version only contains 119 billion forints specifically as a source of higher education development. I am very pleased to have you here, Mr Secretary of State Bodis, Rector, I would be very interested to know why this could have happened. Why did it happen that they promised Hungarian higher education and Hungarian universities this huge development resource. At the committee meeting, Mr Vinnai said almost literally that anyone who misses a model change would also miss development resources. Compared to this, have universities been blackmailed into changing models, put under political control, but everyone is left out of EU development resources? And if we look at the sources of the budget, there is no intention of replacing these promised funds that have not come from the EU. I would be very interested, and obviously they don't owe me basically an answer, but they belong to Hungarian universities, Hungarian young people and the Hungarian public about where, from what source, and with what schedule they want to replace this promised but unreached promise of development resource of 1500 billion. [[13.50]] But I can give you one more example, which I can again write at the expense of Tamás Deutsch, that he has not given me an answer. We have talked a great deal about the terrible state of the Hungarian water utility system, and in the summer of last year, during an immediate question, Prime Minister acknowledged that this problem is indeed a thousand billion-dollar problem, and that resources must be drawn to ensure the supply of drinking water, the most important public service in a thousand-billion-dollar scale. And it was then said that, indeed, they are trying to solve this, too, from the European Union's development resources. But if we look at the recovery fund, we don't have these amounts, so we can't see again what it is that you want to face this problem on the basis of what resources. On the other hand, if we look at the central budget, we would have to include 200 to 300 billion per year, in addition to the current resources, for additional maintenance and replacement aid, we do not see this either. How does the government intend to resolve this? In what way, how and when do you intend to face this problem, when we are about to say that Prime Minister has finally acknowledged that this is a thousand billion-dollar scale? So this is specifically about the need for those responsible for care to prepare a so-called rolling development plan in a 15-year perspective, and there, in that development plan, the basic maintenance and replacement works, their technical content, are priced, and, in addition to the currently planned development resources, thousands of billions of HUF are missing. The Hungarian County City Association estimates that 3000 billion forints are missing beyond the existing resources, and I repeat that the most important public service, drinking water supply, sewage treatment and the protection of water bases can be solved. We don't see a trace in the budget, in the central budget, of them facing this problem, and they're trying to do something about the fire-fighting element. This suggests quite shocking and enormous irresponsibleness. And another problem like that. We have also talked a lot about this, and we have heard a lot about it from the Secretary of State yesterday and from the speakers in Fideszes-KDNP about how much money is being spent on the development of the road network. What I can tell you is that there are still 17 thousand kilometres of roads, road networks waiting for immediate renovation, these are only national roads, there are no municipal roads in extremely bad condition, and you can see that this number is growing year after year. Otherwise, we can observe a very interesting phenomenon: in recent times, these statistics have not been published by the official bodies very much, than if these problems were to be tried in this way, I cannot cover them or cosmeticize them, but it is clear that there should be an increase in the volume of resources to be spent on the development of the highly degraded road network and road network. So I'm not talking about the motorway network, I'm talking about basically the road network, especially the lower roads. Obviously, we also consider it very important that motorway sections which have not yet reached the border can continue to build up and indeed develop the necessary regional links that could, where appropriate, provide the basis for a cross-border economic development, but we can also see a tremendous, shocking delay. However, the biggest problem, I can say, is in terms of the road network, and it is typical of only affecting rural areas again, and we can see very extreme conditions. Not long ago, I again visited an area on which we submitted a proposal for a amending budget last year. In Tolna County, in the small town of Tamás, there is a section of the road that is in such a terrible state, this is an outstanding example that the Volán company has already practically informed the municipality, otherwise a Fidesz municipality, that they will consider that the bus will not run there, because the cars will be destroyed. By the way, the municipality typically has no resources to carry out these extremely cost-intensive investments. (In the notary seat, Dezső the Believer Replaced by Sándor Szabó.) And when we brought in a proposal on this, it was voted out by the Fidesz MEPs. This is quite shocking, and I can say again that the future will be spent, because if there is no adequate means of maintenance now to restore, repair and maintain roads, then these roads will need to be rebuilt in an increasing proportion, which will again be a significantly higher cost in the future. And similarly, in yesterday's debate, last night there was a little polemia, that again, in an 11-year-old perspective, you had almost nothing to do with the development of railway lines that were still very important for the countryside. Instead, they force the 1,000 billion or nearly 1000 billion Budapest-Belgrád railway project, to which we know precisely that in the two serious years of the epidemic, you spend as much money as 175 thousand new jobs could be created. And I could go on and on with the problems that basically rewrite or fundamentally question your success propaganda, which basically show that this is not a responsible budget, but a campaign budget that increases these system problems and does not actually face the most serious social and economic issues, but I will not do so because of a time gap. Let me talk more about the situation of my narrower country, Pécs-Baranya, and about the type of amendments we have tabled to the budget. Last year, too, last year, I presented proposals that we believe are very, very important to both Pécs and Baranya. It was amazing to me that Péter Hoppál, a representative of Baranya Pécs, and a representative of the Fidesz Parliament, voted no to many, many billions of forints, which could have reached Pécs, could have helped Baranya, the people living there. And at that time, Mr President, you referred to the fact that these discussions were not well founded. Yesterday, I have already indicated to Mr Secretary of State that I hope that the Government is open to the vote of a pro-government Member not to retort the pro-government Members to vote in favour of the amendments that are important for his region. I am trying to prepare that, when the moment of voting comes, we will have such amendments to vote for a separate vote here in plenary, and we will provide the basis for not being afraid, Mr Peter Hoppál, that if he has already betrayed Pécs many times before, he has betrayed Baranya, then do not be at least afraid to vote for the important amendments that would offer us fundamental problems, at least in part, a cure. Obviously, I will put forward another amendment so that Pécs can receive a significant multibillion-dollar grant to develop a damaged, ageing fleet. I will also present a proposal to create a single regional, Pécs-centred, but comprehensive Baranya-wide transport system, which would help Komló, the people living in Kozármisleny and those living in the settlements of the area, so that they can travel in a single, good transport system, with the same tariff, and with a much better service, and there should not be an obstacle to the current lack of interoperability between local and local transport. We are also proposing this. Also, as I mentioned earlier, we are targeting the problem of the maintenance of water utilities. We will have a country-wide amendment to this, where I have already mentioned this on a pro rata basis, that the maintenance of water utilities will propose a framework that can provide some level of maintenance for at least one year in a 15-year horizon. Obviously, there is our proposal in parallel on the withdrawal of the utility tax for the aquatic public works, which can again be a zero step, and this is not our proposal, but a proposal from the profession. In addition, I will present a proposal to provide funding for very, very important water utility maintenance work in the area of Pécs, Baranya. We know that if we look only at the supply area of the Tettye Source House, then 20 billion HUF is missing in the 15-year horizon beyond the planned sources, and then we have not spoken either to DRV or Baranya-Víz Zrt. supply area. I very much hope that every MEP in Pécs and Baranya will feel his own responsibility and vote in favour of these amendments, and that at least part of the serious system problems that have been accumulated in the region of Pécs and Baranya due to the failure and misdirection of the last 11 years can be addressed. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2021-05-20-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, The next speaker was Mr Gábor Varga, from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-20-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The budget presented by the government in 2022 is the budget for the re-launch of the country. After last year and this year, our most important task is to restart the economy. I am sure that many will approach the draft before Parliament from a variety of directions. Unfortunately, I have no doubt that this will be presented by the opposition, in accordance with its custom, mostly only with lies spiced with reality and demagoguery. However, I would like to show, in response to the recent results of my own constituency, why it is worth believing in the budget of the Orbán government in 2022 for the whole country, including the Hungarian countryside and the people living in the countryside. The 5th constituency of Fejér county consists of 35 settlements, mostly between the small settlements of only 600 people and the small town of 12 thousand inhabitants with settlements between 2 and 4 thousand inhabitants. [[14.00]] From 2002 until 14th I served and served as mayor of the village, and from 10th to 10th I served and served as parliamentary representatives of the region. At that time, as opposition mayor, I had the opportunity to experience the hard-core anti-rural policies of left-wing governments; many people cannot imagine what an amazing developmental disadvantage this district actually started in 2010. After 2010, with the strong support of civil governments, we have managed to carve down a significant part of our previously unimportable disadvantage, the region has developed enormously, with only one section of the infrastructure improvements that have been implemented in recent years, which I would like to report without the need for completeness, but still very, very proudly. Ladies and gentlemen, We have made great progress in modernising a health institution, one of the opposition's branches. In the city of Aba and Enying, we built a completely new clinic, and we completely renovated the clinic in Sárbugárd and installed it with hundreds of millions of HUF worth of medical equipment and equipment over the years. In almost all my settlements we have renovated or renovated medical offices, several service apartments, some where we build a completely new office. Last year, for example, my colleague Bence Rétvári and I handed over the beautiful butterfly health home, the absolute Western European standard of which anyone can be convinced with his own eyes. Last year's budget provided funds for South Feyér County to plan the development of the M8 road and the 63 main road twice into a two-track expressway. The former will connect it to the economic circulation of the country and Europe for South-Head, while the latter will make one of the busiest transit routes in the Danube, north-south, faster and safer, expected from 2026. (The presidency of Dr. Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Next up, the state of the roads is very sorry that Lóránt Keresztes went out, as he could have heard the changes affecting my region from this point of view. Well, in this respect, we have certainly not yet come to the end of the work, but in this area, South Head has also undergone unprecedented development. Mostly with Hungarian and small part EU co-financing, we have only fixed more than 75 kilometers of lower road since 2018, we have renovated a Sió bridge and built a new one in my constituency. Their total cost exceeds HUF 10.3 billion. In addition, thanks to the program of the Hungarian village, in 2019 we built a value of 255 million HUF, last year we renewed tens of kilometers of inland roads and sidewalks, and this year's budget is expected to cost HUF 20 billion to the government for the development of inland roads only within three years of the Hungarian village programme. As a result of the latter, the number of settlements where virtually all inland roads are asphalted is constantly increasing. The condition of the roads of Sárbugárd, Enying, Soponya, Káloz, Deg, Cece, Fund, Igar, Mezőszentgyörgy, Mezőkomárom, Mezősilas, Szépsz, Sáregres, Mátyásdomb, Nagykarács, Baracs, Kisapostag, Sárosd, Sárkeresztúr, Aba, Tác and Vajta in the interior has greatly improved. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister and the Government of Hungary seem to be interested in the development of rural Hungary, and this is reflected in tangible support and decisions from both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior. Here we can even make a short detour from the point of view of rural Hungary, perhaps the most successful and effective measure in recent years, at the Hungarian village programme, which is well-coordinated by the Government Commissioner Alpár Gyopáros. In 2019 1 billion HUF 140 million forints for development and in 2020 forints and one and a half billion forints for development came to my constituency. We have been able to and will be able to renovate, for example, the kindergarten of Hantos and Nagylóki, the gymnasium of the pre-arrival and the school of Kisláng, the town of Sibsi or Igar, and the renovation of the basic and pre-arrival schools will begin in the autumn. The Hungarian village programme also provides a source for our settlements for nearly HUF 200 million in public space maintenance equipment. In total, in the order of HUF 100 million service apartments were renewed in Tácon, Daruszentmiklós and Mezőkomárom; the medical clinics renovated from a total of HUF 160 million were equipped with over HUF 92 million of new medical equipment, such as Nagykarácsony, Sárszentágotán, Sáregresen or Vajtán. (Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat) Replaced by Attila Móring József.) Ladies and gentlemen, It is a regularly recurring opposition mood, according to which the government bleeds out the local governments, for example by withdrawing the business tax. South Head says no to that, too. As the local industrialisation tax loss caused by the corona virus epidemic in every settlement under 25,000 people, so my constituency in all 35 settlements compensates 100% for the ever worse bleeding out of Hungary's Government! I would remind my very forgetful opposition fellow Members that they should look for the impossibility of the municipalities and the countryside 15 years earlier; unfortunately, I had to keep my settlement alive as a practicing mayor during the period when the socialists and the free democrats were under attack, not even the management costs of the municipalities were entirely financed by the state, and we did not really dare to dream of any more serious development. But let's move on to education. Baracson, located in the neighbourhood of Dunaújváros, renovated the school, the new kindergarten was occupied two years ago by kindergartens, and the new kindergarten will be completed this summer. Cecén is developing an almost HUF 1 billion school and gymnasium in these months; the Mészöly Géza Primary School in Sárbug will be renewed from half a billion forints; The school was renovated in Sárszentmiklós and Lepsény; the primary school was completely renewed last year, and in Sárkeresztú we also built a new four-class school section last year, which will be further developed into eight-class. We have built a series of beautiful and well-equipped kindergartens similar to the Kisapostagi or its villages near Dunaújváros in recent years, and the works have started at the end of the Free Bridge, and they are expected to take place in Vajta in the autumn as well. Since last year, we have been building the new cradle in 15 settlements of my constituency, including Sárosdon and Mezőfalva, worth more than 2.5 billion forints. We are building a completely new gym in Mezőszilas, and new schools are available to primary school students and the general public in Enying and Sárbugdon. Dear Parliament, After recent times, please allow me to say a little bit about the near future, namely, improvements of outstanding size and importance in the life of my constituency, which will also be funded by last year's and this year's budgets. This year we will start building a new sports hall, a new police station and a new rescue station in Sarfugárd, only the total value of these three investments is more than HUF 5 billion and this is again a domestic source. In addition, the industrial park and the incubator house are also built in Sárbugdon, which are already home to many businesses in semi-finished condition, creating new jobs for local unemployment in the Sarbugárd district, which is already a major carve-off. You have the right to ask how what I have said so far is related to the 2022 budget. The answer is very simple: the draft ensures that the country building is continued. For 12 years now, I have been listening to the unfounded, demagogic, hypocritical criticisms of the opposition, which has once destroyed or tried to destroy the country, about the current draft budget of the right-wing government. You may remember that I mentioned a $10.3 billion number above: since 2018, we have only renovated more than 75 kilometers of lower ground in my constituency. Do you know what left-wing governments were able to do here between 2002 and 2010? The two figures are 7 kilometers and 500 million forints, and in the areas already mentioned, education, health care and job creation, I can only account for much worse rates. I think it speaks for itself. [[14.10]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the budget put forward by the government in 2022 is a good basis for the re-launch of the country. The measures included are expected to benefit families with children, Hungarian businesses and Hungary of the countryside, which I can only support. More than half of the planned HUF 7300 billion source of the economic re-launch action plan, i.e. HUF 3883 billion in domestic resources, and HUF 423 billion in tax reductions, will help people to live and restart the economy. Please support the adoption of the budget. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-20-56	Thank you and with respect to my fellow Members. Our next speaker is István Apáti, Member, independent. Here you go.
u2021-05-20-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Let's just say that this is the budget for opening or reopening the campaign. In the previous speech we also heard an excellent single mandate district campaign opening speech. The Hungarian Movement considers this draft budget to be an extraordinary lack of opportunity for an epidemic solidarity tax. As a single party and a single right-wing opposition party, we have been demanding the introduction of an epidemic solidarity tax for months, since it is admittedly true that the previous speaker here also spoke about the reopening of the economy, because the devastating pandemic has caused extraordinary, unpredictable economic difficulties over the past year. At the same time, like everything else, this extraordinary situation would benefit. According to the Hungarian Movement, the largest beneficiaries of the epidemic are multinational tech companies, headed by Google or Facebook, which have suffered, not only suffered, have suffered for at least 14 months, but have gained amazing, not extra, but extreme-sized profits. You can do this here in Hungary either tax-free or with a very low public burden. We believe that we can consider these companies to be tax collectors of human misery, suffering and the deaths of thousands or tens of thousands of Hungarians. There is every legal, moral basis to exclude this epidemic solidarity tax demanded by our country's Movement. In addition, we can at the same time relieve those who are now carrying a disproportionate burden, and we are trying to save careers, businesses that are either already ruined, or are now faced with the situation, especially in the tourism or catering sector, that despite trying to survive, they no longer have employees, because they have gone to another sector, another sphere, because they had no reserves to place themselves and could not wait for the reopening or the current scarcer revenues to ensure their survival. For this reason, we call for this epidemic solidarity tax of hundreds of billions a year, the inclusion of which could be a very important revenue leg for the budget, according to the Hungarian Movement. At the same time, we are confused about the plan to build the University of China, which is estimated at HUF 500-600 billion in total. We do not consider it timely, and we do not consider it necessary in any way. This source, especially in these miserable times, would be much better off elsewhere, and these resources could be used much more efficiently. So the order of importance has been established or set, it seems, in the Budapest study rooms or in the building of the Parliament, which in many cases functioned as a enchanted castle, has not been properly established. So please reconsider your views or views on this, because by the way, a large part of the pro-government voters disagree, so they also go against a significant part of their own voters when they want to carry the establishment of the Chinese university through force. Without the need for completeness, let me mention some serious shortcomings. It does not see the intention of the Hungarian Movement to improve the substance of the social sphere's workers. We are well aware that they are the big losers of the last more than a decade, because if we look at the pay sign, we can see that at best maybe a net salary of around 214 thousand forints in terms of the social sphere, in terms of the job obligations there, the stress burden there, and especially the food price explosion that occurred in the last year, is necessary to sustain life, if you like to use an older concept, Hungarian workers and Hungarian families are in a much more difficult situation in terms of the resources needed to create the biological minimum. It is unworthy that the employees of the social sphere are one of the greatest victims of this situation and that they do not really have the ability to assert their will and legitimate needs properly. Just as law enforcement workers are in a very difficult situation, regardless of whether they have received substantial and visible wage increases or wage developments in recent years. But if we go a little further from Parliament's building or from downtown, or from the districts of Belpest and Belbuda, and, say, we are taking a thorough study trip, say, in the Jászság, the Eastern counties or even in South Transdanubia, and we are talking to the members of the professional staff, then we can certainly see that in the last 14 months, not so many people have stayed with the board because they are so satisfied with the wage developments of the past period and with the wage developments that have now been announced, I will also include this one-time gross allowance of HUF 500 000, but because, in view of the exceptional situation, they cannot simply end their relationship of service, honourable Members. So there's also a kind of compulsion to remain police, not necessarily out of vocation and conviction. I note that in addition to reducing the quality of day-to-day work and demoralising, this would be an urgent need to stop the outflow of labour from police and other law enforcement bodies. This can only be and can only be budgetary instruments or, in particular, budgetary instruments. It is good that the wage burden on workers aged 18-25 years, if everything is true, if there is no change or if lightning does not strike, then let's say it will decrease from 1 January 2022. However, we do not see the possibility for young entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs, in particular micro-enterprises, small-income micro-enterprises to survive in the long term and the conditions for becoming an entrepreneur in the first two to three operational or economic years to ensure the conditions for becoming an entrepreneur by paying for a public burden or a symbolic public burden. So, without the need for completeness, this budget proposal is bleeding from a thousand wounds. Finally, let me say a few words about my narrower country, Szatmár and the constituency of Mátészalka, and some earlier promises, including promises of the Prime Minister, between the walls of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, On 4 May 2017, a little more than four years ago, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán promised that, in addition to the M49 bypass road, a prison or detention facility will soon be built in Csenger's border. Briefly, this is due to the fact that you announced a development programme for the construction of nine prisons in the 2014-18 cycle in order to stop and prevent the payment of herring money, in order to brake the prison business, where, after all, a separate industry was built to lose billions in prison overcrowding lawsuits by the Hungarian state. In Csenger, the purpose was to build a penitentiary capable of receiving 500 prisoners, along with nine other institutions. [[14.20]] Later, it was unofficially heard that only three more will be built in the country, and not nine, but still there is Csenger in this, and the next condition is that only in Csenger is planning to build the prison. Now, however, there is another silence around the matter of prison building, which amounts to about 12 billion in order to talk about specific numbers. I would add that it is important not only to keep the 500 inmates in custody and thus to reduce prison congestion at national level, but also to create 250 jobs in one of the most disadvantaged, most difficult walks in the country. At least 80 people had left their jobs earlier to retrain themselves to the various areas of Bv, and then, as a career model, some people had received that they could not go to Sopronkőhida, the eastern border, to the western border, and possibly work there if they wanted to be in the bv area, all because the investment is constantly slipping. I do not see in this draft budget that guarantees the financing or financial future of Mátészalka Hospital, which ensures at least the current level of supply. Unfortunately, last fall the news came out that because of Covid, the obstetrics and gynecology department was being shut down and converted into a Covid class and the closure of other countries was also mentioned. Fortunately, this proved to be unfounded at the time, or I believe that it is likely that the decision-makers changed their mind at the last minute and withdrew. Well, not only is the principle of this constantly undershadowed region of the country, let us say, its regions that have been put at a disadvantage compared to Western Transdanubia or the capital, to maintain at least the current standard, but also essential improvements, especially the development of tools, could also be needed in the hospital of Mátészalka. So because of the errors and shortcomings listed not in a taxatically, but only in an exemplary manner, the Hungarian Movement will certainly not be able to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-20-58	For two minutes, I give the right to speak to Daniel Z. Carpathian, the representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-05-20-59	Mr President, Dear House, Some old pieces of furniture shouldn't be offended, like Congressman Nacsa, or myself, we are here, but there is a pro-government custom of trying to pick off the opposition representatives' words, and then they run out of the Chamber, and they also make it clear why we're not here. That is why I am trying to pour on Mr. Secretary of State what is hurting my soul, and I hope that at the end of a joint therapy conversation he will resolve the dilemma that we cannot deal with, Mr. Secretary of State. What we see is that you are talking about the tax cuts, the re-launch budget, and if I look at the line of personal income tax income expectations, I see that you want to collect 149 billion more from the Hungarian people in the form of taxes next year. However, this is true, Mr Secretary, despite the fact that people under the age of 25 will save 140 billion in this area. Overall, this can only mean that you want to collect 289 billion forints more tax from the Hungarian people, and we do not see either the economic expansion or the increase in the number of employees that would underpin such a brutal tax surplus, I would add, they want to collect 400 billion more from VAT. If you think the economy is going so well, why don't you cut down on 27 percent of the record VAT either on basic foods or on child-rearing products. But if you think everything is going so well, please support the right-wing proposal that we are about to submit, which means that we would not cosmeticise the fact that the unpaid alimony is easier to get to the rightful people and benefit from the child's education, but Hungary, if there is no alimony, will advance the entire amount, ensure the well-being of the family and child, and then the state will try to recover it from the person who did not pay, but the child protection aspect must be the first. We insist on this, and we expect your position to be articulated on this issue. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-05-20-60	I will also address Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP for two minutes. Here you go.
u2021-05-20-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will also write the old piece of furniture in my direction among the beacons from Jobbik [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That was positive!]] I've got a lot of them, so it's totally fine. Mr. Congressman, I hope that you will then signal this outburst to your allies and not wait for the debate, because I wanted to respond to Bence of Tordai or to Lóránt Keresztes László that I should not mention Mr. Vice-President, because he is in charge of the meeting, so I would not dare mention him in this line. Mr Crusade said that the budget should be based on a realistic vision and a realistic assessment of the situation. That's exactly what this is about! The IMF has already improved the economic forecasts in Hungary for the first time, once this year, even though it has been five months. I would say to Dániel Z. Carpathian that I can see the Jobbik's efforts to collect more taxes from the government, and then they're trying to make it look like people are being sabotaged by the government. You can't show me a single item here where there's a tax increase. What we are talking about here is that more people can get to work, the economy can grow, investments can start, consumption can grow because we can get into a better economic situation this year, and especially next year. Look at the forecasts of international organisations independent of the government and not completely biased with us. On the subject of universities, Mr Keresztes said a few sentences as to why the 1500 billion-dollar development is not made from EU funds. Ladies and gentlemen, We owe this to you. You've drilled this. They have come to the European Commission to prevent the European Commission from allowing us to spend on universities from the Restoration Fund, which is why we are going to spend on this from domestic sources. I would like to remind you that next year's budget will have to spend HUF 138 billion on the maintenance costs of motorways, the motorways you have built in a poor PPP construction. What could be spent on the 138 billion forints in the interests of the people, that, if not through the PPP contracts that you have taken away, you would still have to spend 138 billion forints in 2022? I think it's a shame.
u2021-05-20-62	Our next speaker was Alpár Gyopáros, representative of Fidesz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-20-63	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, From the point of view of rural development, I would like to comment on the discussion of the budget of 22, because the draft budget, I am convinced, at least in my opinion, continues to pay sufficient attention to the development of the domestic countryside, because we really appreciate the diligence of rural people. We respect them, so we continue to aim to ensure that the quality of life in rural areas is at least as high as that of metropolitan areas. We continue to believe in the Hungarian countryside and, unlike our fellow left-wing Members, we do not consider the opinions coming from the countryside ignorant, but valuable. Unlike previous left-wing governments, we are not lost, but we are giving to the Hungarian countryside, just as we have done in recent years through various programmes. Therefore, in 2022, the budget will also pay particular attention to the development of the "Modern Cities" programme and the "Hungarian Village" programme. The two programmes directly affect two thirds of the Hungarian population, while indirectly affecting the lives of almost all our countrymen. In the case of the 23 county-righted cities, i.e. in order to have a fast-track connection, the settlements have reached tangible closeness, serving the large road development within the programme of HUF 2000 billion, thanks to which developments take place in almost all regions of the country. In 2022, we will provide even more resources to strengthen the regional central roles of metropolitan cities and to implement the improvements they have formulated. I would like to point out that two thirds of the resources of the HUF 4000 billion budget programme are domestic budgetary resources. This is the support of the Government of Hungary and the budget for our county-righted cities and their inhabitants and our countrymen living in the immediate catchment area of the cities. In the framework of the modern city programme, 270 cities' goals, perhaps not excessive, are said to be the government's dreams when it achieves very different but important local developments in large cities with an additional value of nearly HUF 2000 billion. Most of the projects have been launched or are at least in the planning phase and are in the preparatory phase, while more than a hundred programme elements have already been completed. New swimming pools, industrial parks, refurbished theatres, renewed community squares, zoos, sports halls, hospital development and beautiful museums promote the success and validity of the modern city program. Ladies and gentlemen, We will not stop next year, at least in the same order as before, to continue to support cities and cities. The draft budget of 2022, unlike any other celebrity, includes funding targets of more than HUF 266 billion, which serve some of the tasks of the Modern Cities programme. [[14.30]] Cranes are already standing all over the country and will stand next year, road rollers will walk, various investments will rise from the ground to strengthen regional central roles, and institutions and buildings will be renewed. Indeed, there are only a few examples of what will be served by the budget of more than HUF 266 billion next year in the areas of Kecskemét, Nagykanizsa, Pécs, Sopron, Szeged, Szombaegerszeg; rail development at Szolnok; other transport development at Debrecen and Nyíregyháza; and other projects at local level that are important, not transport-type projects: Békéscsaban in the sports life of higher education, Szeged, Zalaegerszeg, Szombathely, Nagykanizsa, Szekszárd education and cultural life, Zalaegerszeg and Győr, in strengthening the tourist attraction of Székesfehérvár, or in the development of the zoo of Veszprém and Nyíregyháza. I stress that the list was exemplary. It also shows that there is no difference between opposition and pro-government cities. The only key to the local success of the program is for the city to do its job, and if the city administration does its job, the government will support the progress of these projects. I believe that for all of our county-righted castles, the programme is an opportunity on an overall historical scale, because these investments could obviously not be carried out by the municipalities on their own initiative, and I therefore very much thank the majority of our cities for their partnership, and I wish all of us good and effective work by 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, Our villages were also given an unprecedented opportunity and a new vision when the Prime Minister announced the launch of the Hungarian village programme in 2018; and since then, our villages throughout the country have started to renew, the population loss has stopped, and the population has started to grow in about a thousand settlements in less than two years. The Hungarian village program is so strong and so successful because, as we say, the Hungarian village programme was written by the villages themselves, they, i.e. of course, the village officials, the various village NGOs, associations and foundations, church boys, the people of the village themselves, have told us what they need, what developments they need in the settlement, and therefore it cannot be a coincidence that 98 percent of the settlements under the five thousand inhabitants of Hungary, i.e. the settlements belonging to the group group of the Hungarian village, have already found some connection point, at least one connection to the Hungarian village. Overall, we have paid or paid more than 600 billion HUF in 2019-2021 within the framework of the Hungarian village programme, from which village families, village municipalities, parishes, school supporters, civil society organisations and this year village small businesses and shopkeepers can also benefit. There are only one or two macro numbers from the results of the programme: over HUF 130 billion of funding has been paid through more than 12,000 successful tenders in the municipal tender system, so that only the 2019-2020 numbers are counted here, this year's numbers have not been counted; a village CSOK grant of more than HUF 100 billion, of which 20 thousand families have moved to a new home or renewed their existing home; more than 3,000 kilometres of renewable roads; enthusiastic NGOs who want to do something for the village, re-opening shops, I could tell for a very, very long time. And I would also like to share the sea of personal stories available to us from the feedback related to the Hungarian village program, so let me tell you only one or two joyful stories without time. For example, minibuses purchased through the Hungarian village programme will carry the inhabitants of the village to the filling points at the time of the virus situation. The cultural house was burned down, with the help of the application of the Hungarian village, it was possible to start the renovation of the cultural house immediately. Empty, abandoned residential properties with community exploitation; new machines guaranteeing the cleanliness of the villages; smiles of children playing in new kindergarten yards. Many, many personal stories of villagers who have healed under dignified conditions, or even for many decades, have been waiting for road development for up to 50-60 years. These are the photo albums for the past two and a half years. There are many positive stories coming from all over the country, from all over the country, and there are many positive echoes, good suggestions and support. This is where we are now without the results of this year, and next year the programme will continue to grow. But there is much to be done, because let me say the neglect of decades of left-wing governments, because this is indeed how it is possible to repair rural destruction from one year to the next. Therefore, in 2022, the government backs up the program "Hungarian Village" and supports it in the same order of magnitude as it has done so far. There will be applications again, there will be village CSOK, there will be road renovation, there will be civilian subsidies, and there will be just one example: the normative of the village care services I consider extremely important will continue to rise next year, as it has continued to rise in recent years. In addition, the village CSOK support system is open from above, i.e. as much demand will arrive at least by June next year, the government will support families in the countryside. This year's funding envelope, which is similar to this year, will be available for nearly HUF 70-75 billion. Within the framework of the village road base, as I have already mentioned, we will soon achieve a renewal of the lower road network for 3,000 kilometres. The following year, we will take a scale here, and there is every hope that another 1,500 kilometers can be renewed next year, or even be completed next year. In this way, we can say that significant resources will again be available for road development to facilitate safe transport and commute. Ladies and gentlemen, Summa summarum, who sees the everyday life of the Hungarian countryside, lives in the countryside, or is interested in the opinion of the rural people, knows exactly what the "Hungarian village" program means for small settlements, so I don't care anymore. However, it is worth noting that anyone who looks down on the countryside clearly does not care what is happening in the countryside, so he easily throws away the decline in the Hungarian countryside. On the other hand, the Hungarian countryside, the Hungarian village, is living in the Renaissance, and if it depends on the current government in the future, it will also be so in the further future. This is precisely demonstrated by the draft budget for 2022 and the associated long-term concept of rural development, which the Hungarian government has for the coming years. Thank you for the government's support for the implementation of the two programmes and for the continued support of rural people. I also thank my fellow countrymen in the countryside for the many good suggestions and diligence in their implementation. Thank you, at the same time, for the contribution of the wallets to the programmes, and I wish you all good work next year. Fortunately, there will be plenty of tasks and resources. Of course, in the light of all this, I propose that the Parliament adopt the draft budget. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-20-64	Thank you. Our next speaker was Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-05-20-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In my speech as a keynote speaker on the 2022 budget, I have already classified the central budget of 2022. This time in my speech I would like to talk about my amendments to the 4th Siófok Constituencies of Somogy County, my amendments to the Balaton Rehabilitation and to assist the Mohos and the fishing community. After Mr Alpár Gyopáros's speech, I would like to confront the Hungarian reality of the state of the roads in the countryside in Hungary. Because if someone goes to these settlements, I'm not saying that you have to start this search in the settlements on the shore of Lake Balaton, but you have to go a little further away from Lake Balaton, say, around Tab and its region, there are roads that are quite simply impenetrable. That is why I have decided to make a single amendment to all 71 municipalities based on a flat-rate point of view for a road renovation and road renovation, i.e. an infrastructure development. I chose a symbolic figure for this flat rate, 28 500 forints. You have not increased your minimum pension for many years, and you believe that this HUF 28 500 is enough to make a living. But then, on the one hand, it would be possible to raise this 28 500 forints, on which we are making an opposition amendment, because it is untenable that this is what people really get in a month, and on the other hand, if you already hold on to 28 500 forints and you stick to this number, then the road renewal programme of 2,3 billion forints for nearly 81,000 inhabitants of 71 settlements, I think, is not excessive. Yes, you can go and look at these roads. I'm not saying that there have been no road renovations in recent years, there has been, but there is still something to be done, and we, I think, have a responsibility and a responsibility to provide this resource. The budget for 2022, as we have heard from Minister Mihály Varga, will be quite simply fantastic, because everything is pink and everything is beautiful, but the Hungarian reality is that the settlements do need a source, even because you hijacked the car tax, by 2022 it is exactly HUF 90.5 billion that constitutes the revenue of the central budget, although some of it could also form the revenue of the municipalities. [[14.40]] If you think about it: years ago, the car tax was imported and stayed in the settlements precisely because the roads, the renovation of the public road network or the painting of road signs were covered by these revenues. These were taken away from the municipalities, because you thought that you would distribute these funds, and either through applications or through the Hungarian village programme, or whatever you might call these programs, and then return them to the municipalities. Well, we see your policy over the years, punishing opposition-led settlements. So when we talk about a car tax, I think that this should be returned to the settlements. We also tabled a draft amending budget for this. Speaking of the maintenance of the roads: knowing local conditions, as former Deputy Mayor of Siófok, I also submitted amendments to the centre of the constituency, Siófok, in consultation with Mayor Róbert Lengyel in advance. Because it is quite amazing that today, in 2021, a whole part of a town on the shore of Lake Balaton is without a sewer network directly on the shore of Lake Balaton. The municipality does not have its own resources to do so, nor can it be expected that the people living there will make this waste water investment for themselves. This is one of the biggest items in terms of investments in Siófok, but I think that one of the most important ones is that this area, the part of the town of Salt Lake, is directly on the shore of Lake Balaton, where, as I said, there is no sewer network. I believe that you can get very few votes from there, because most of the people there are holiday owners, but you can't leave an entire part of the city without a sewer network, because through the soil, the sewage can flow to and from Lake Balaton, because the digestive pits have been made for a long time, and they can be suitable for these flows and indirectly contaminating Lake Balaton. When we ask for additional central resources to invest in the sewer network, not for the first time, so that you can get ready, you put your hands up and say nothing, you listen deeply. You shouldn't be silent, you should be acting. And now we have the opportunity to act. The opposite of my amendments to the budget is that in any case, the investment planned from the Chinese loan that will never return to Budapest-Belgrád must be set against it. I took it from the frame of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, because I think that Hungarian people do not need it. However, what the 71 municipalities need, including the previous example, is for Siófok to make this waste water canal investment. But let's not just talk about that. There is also a need to provide funds to complement a kindergarten development programme, because it does not entail the loss of resources from the municipalities, even the publishing of the solidarity contribution against the municipalities, since the total loss of 130 billion forints from the municipalities, and the own resources have been reduced to the level that the municipalities are now unable to spend as much resources on their institutions as they need to. But it's the same with the Kálmán Imre Cultural Center. For years there has been a complex investment development in this institution that XXI. Under century conditions, provide a quality cultural program for Siófok, people living in the area and those staying there in the summer, but the building is simply outdated. If there's no source, they can't invest. I also tabled this amendment with regard to Siófok in order to make some improvements from a central source that the Siófok really need. The other amendment concerns the rehabilitation of Lake Balaton. In the earlier part of the debate, I said that together with my fellow Members Lajos Rig and Ádám Steinmetz, we tabled a budget amendment of HUF 19.1 billion for the rehabilitation of Lake Balaton. We know that you provide resources at Lake Balaton, just not for what you should do, and we do not dispute that the Hungarian Tourism Agency has the possibility to apply for tourist development and other investments. But this is part of another paper, and I would like to note in separate parentheses that a significant part of these resources is linked to a certain circle, to an oligarch near the government, to people close to the government. The rehabilitation of Lake Balaton can't wait any longer! The head of the Balaton Limnological Institute has already said that the handbrake must be pulled in, because the constructions on the shore of Lake Balaton are such that we have to worry not only about expropriation and exploitation, but also because it will simply destroy the Lake Balaton, and it will no longer be able to maintain the ecological values and natural values that belong to the Balaton, our common national treasure. So when we say to give HUF 19.1 billion to enable the rehabilitation of Lake Balaton to begin, we realize that this is a very, very small amount that should be used to preserve the ecology of Lake Balaton. 15 hours and 50 minutes, so the five pro-government representatives have the opportunity to join this initiative for an hour, because, as I said, we would like this to be a joint matter, because everyone on Lake Balaton has to have it. So we have an hour before those five pro-government representatives to join the initiative, and at the time of the amendment to stand up for the rescue of Lake Balaton, because this is the only way we can take steps forward together. The third big package that I would like to talk about is also the last period of action that has caused a great deal of dust in relation to night fishing. What's been going on here for the past few months is simply invaluable. I have consulted with the Presidency of Mohosz, and I am very pleased that there is a commissioner responsible for the ecology of Balaton in Zsolt Sari, and I hope that our conversation will be even more professional. I also talked to Mr Lajos Szűcs, Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets and the President of Mohos about the need to provide some compensation to fishermen if they have not been able to fish at night for several months in the past because of the curfew. They couldn't fish because of the curfew, but the hunters could sit on the ledge. The outrage of the fishing community and its need to receive some compensation for the November-May period are justified. I calculated it, and I think it's 2 billion forints. During this period, which, I repeat, we consider a period of force majeure to have an annual territorial fishing licence, they will be given a 10% discount on the price of the area fishing licences for 2022. Mohos has a lot of work to do, and I see the budget at Mohos as well as the budget, and if it's so much work, and it needs a budget, we'll make it up to the central budget, and the fishermen will get this 10-percent discount. This is the only item I took not from the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, but from government consultation and communication. I think that this HUF 2 billion has a much better place than fishermen, because it is an activity that, especially after the pandemic, ensures a balance of mind, not to mention a good time for many thousands, some 700 thousand fishermen. I hope that, on the basis of my speech as a keynote speaker on the budget, the budget for 2022 will be amended by these motions. I will also present my positions separately at the committee stage. So the 71 settlements of the Somogy 4th Constituencies of Lake Balaton are waiting for a 2.3 billion-dollar road renovation programme and 2 billion forints at Mohos. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-20-66	Thank you. Our next speaker was Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, representative of Fidesz. Here you go. [[14.50]]
u2021-05-20-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, From this slightly campaign-like mode, I'd like to go back to the budget debate, specifically with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We can remember that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade was among the first to play a role in relaunching the economy. By this time last year, KKM was already implementing the export support and investment promotion programme, which was adapted to the changed circumstances, as part of which it gave Hungarian companies preferential credit opportunities for investments and provided 0.1 percent credit for small enterprises. The large company investment support programme was also a huge success, in which some 800 companies submitted a total grant of nearly 380 billion forints, of which the government provided 150 billion forints. Of course, investment promotion and export development remain of paramount importance in re-launching the economy and maintaining employment. Encouraging the implementation of large-scale investment in Hungary, which is crucial for working capital inflows, and encouraging job creation is one of the cornerstones of the government's foreign economic policy. Accordingly, the same amount, i.e. HUF 80 billion, is available for investment promotion next year. Priority is to attract Hungary to invest in high value added jobs, which contribute to technology transfer and thus facilitate the development of the Hungarian national economy. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the importance of Asia increases year after year among these types of investments, especially Korea, Japan, China and India. Another key element of the foreign economy is the support and support of Hungarian businesses abroad. This is the purpose of the so-called tied aid loan, for which the portfolio also provides for HUF 12 billion in the same way as its time next year. The key part of this capital will be allocated to three countries, Laos, Vietnam and Mongolia. As Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, allow me to look at the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade in more detail. We can see that, despite the crisis, there is no significant reduction in any area, and that the budget of the Information Office is growing by 25 percent, by HUF 4.4 billion, and that the amount allocated to investments in foreign representations will be nearly 20 percent this year, with some HUF 3.7 billion. The good news is that the amount available for the Stipendium Hungaricum scholarship program is also increasing by 18 percent, i.e. by HUF 6 billion. This is also the source of the funding of the Hungarian Diplomacy Academy launched last year. Stipendium Hungaricum continues to play an important role in the dissemination of Hungarian language and culture, in the long term strengthening of sending states. It also has an important role to play in the development and catching up of rural universities and their regions, in addition to having a positive impact on the economy at local and national level. The number of applicants for the 2021-22 academic year increased by not less than 39 percent, almost to 50,000. In the 2021-22 academic year, 29 institutions participate in the programme with 79 international partners with a total of 862 different training courses, where 10 803 students are studying abroad. It is linked to Diaspora's higher education scholarship programme, in which the Hungarian state supports the Hungarian higher education studies of young people living in the diaspora with Hungarian roots, in line with the national policy objectives of Hungary. The Hungarians living in neighbouring countries thrive in their homeland, including targeted economic and infrastructure development programmes and a comprehensive economic development programme system. This includes, among other things, restoring and developing the once existing transport links through cross-border investments and cross-border developments of Hungarian businesses, connecting historically and functionally interconnected regions. This increases the competitiveness of border regions, promotes the sustainability of development, increases the availability of public services and the economic preservation of Hungarian populated areas. It is important to underline that the resources have not narrowed in any area. Cultural diplomatic projects, such as the support of the Gül Baba Türbeje Foundation, will have the same amount of money next year as this year. In 2021 it was a simple task to organize the sustainability Expo in Budapest. If this is taken away, the Ministry's central administrative tasks will also receive the same amount of funds, i.e. HUF 17 billion, for the next year. It is true, however, that next year we will have to pay HUF 2.9 billion less than this year's contribution to the European Union-led European Development Fund, so we can save this amount. Ladies and gentlemen, There are also three major new elements in the Foreign Affairs budget, which I would like to mention separately. I consider it very important to establish the Brexit Adjustment Reserve, which aims to support the economic sectors and actors disadvantaged by the UK's exit from the European Union in the amount of HUF 4 billion. Another novelty is the Hungarian-Indonesian capital fund, which ensures that the capital investments needed to carry out major infrastructure projects in Indonesia are covered. The amount of the contribution to the capital fund is nearly HUF 30 billion. [[Continue in 200/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Parliamentary Diary Finally, I would like to point out that the government has listed the space industry as one of the industries of the future, and therefore has a strong focus on domestic development. In order to carry out the professional tasks related to the European Space Agency, space technology developments, programmes, projects and tasks arising from bilateral and multilateral relations, the budget envisages a significant amount of HUF 6.7 billion. The fact that on the opposition side this is regularly a subject of limping and mockery only confirms that the left is lagging behind the challenges of the age and, even in this area, is unsuitable for the recognition of national interest. I will never give up hope for myself, so I trust that sooner or later they will hear the words of time, and that the Kovács Doctrine of his foreign policy to be small will finally be left behind. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, In summary, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade continues to actively contribute to tackling the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, restarting Hungary, and is prepared to cope with the new challenges of the new world after the coronal virus. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-20-68	Thank you. Our next speaker is the Vice-President of the Parliament, István Hiller, representative of the MSZP. Here you go. [[15.00]]
u2021-05-20-69	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Mrs. Secretary of State, Lords! Dear fellow Members, A budget is the most important proof and indicator of the character of a government. What a government, a government, wants to do, how it groups, what a series of ideas is behind it, is the main evidence of how a government with authority thinks about its country, how it intends to place the whole government in the future of the country, how it intends to manage the country within the European Union, generally in international space. So please allow me to draw attention to some of the things that go beyond some numbers and lines, and let us talk about the concept that this budget you have presented represents, let us see how there is agreement and how there is a difference. I would also like to propose, at the same time, that we do so in one of the country's largest and most people's social subsystems, in the field of education, culture, but let us think of education and culture in the light of the budget, that this goes beyond the figures shown in the budget for the next year itself. Why do I say this, what gives me the authority to make this highlight, in other respects, a comparison? It is quite simply the chronological fact that, although we are discussing next year's budget, we are doing so in 2021, when ten years ago you presented and adopted the whole Hungarian education system in three laws. I would like to present two of these in detail, in the light of time, the law you call national public education and national higher education. Ten years ago. It is worth looking at the budgets and it is worth looking at in terms of effectiveness that those who represented them are right and how you now feel about the budget, the budget presented, the budget for next year and their previous position. Does the budget, if accepted from me, really represent a character, present continuity over a decade, present a concept represented by your more than a decade of governance in this important area, or is it more about looking at it, acknowledging that a person or government can change its position without further ado? If we are dealing with this debate not in subpar depth, but in professional heights, then I do not think that it is too serious an obstacle. Yes, it is, whether the future of our country was implemented by laws imagined a decade ago, as you have said, because then it is possible to draw a conclusion from what you have submitted for the final year of a political cycle, because it is my hope that, and as a result of our work, in a next political term, it will also determine to some extent the framework of the new government resulting from the cooperation of the opposition. Therefore, please, let us try to put this in such a perspective, and not simply to see what numbers are currently included, which, obviously, cannot be missed in a budget debate at the same time. Perhaps it is worth talking about what your budget has not included, but not on the grounds that it does not contain it, because I would like it to be what I would like with my fellows, and then it should be included in the budget that we are submitting. This is a professionally unnecessary, politically worthwhile debate, but I intend to change it. However, there is only one way to look at this: whether you have promised something specifically, based on this promise of social support, and whether this is in the final budget of the cycle. Honourable pro-governmentists, you have transformed the structure of Hungarian public education in their law called "public education" and then in the various executive orders, government resolutions and ministerial decisions, so that you did not ask for any authorisation to do so before. With all due respect, I'd like to be disproved. Tell me, in the 2010 campaign, you said only once that the schools in municipal reserve, namely 90 percent of our schools, will be placed under the supervision of a central government institution manager, and should be named after poor Klebelsberg. He's not poor because his talent and performance wouldn't be great, he's poor because this institution was named after him. The thing is, they didn't say a word about it. [[The sound system isn't working.]] They did not say a word about what, by the way, is directly one and a half million Hungarian students, and indirectly millions of Hungarian citizens, parents, grandparents...
u2021-05-20-70	Excuse me, Mr. Vice President, your mic's not working. One moment, please.
u2021-05-20-71	I understand, but I didn't do anything to her. [[The Officer of the Office will put a microphone in front of the congressman.]] But it may also be that the most respected majority has been so intimidated by what has been said so far...
u2021-05-20-72	It's all coming out now, Mr. Vice President. Here you go.
u2021-05-20-73	... that they're already trying to stop it, even though I'm still at the very beginning. Returning to the idea, however, I must say that they have accomplished something, honourable pro-governmentists, which they have not asked for, but without doubt, in the possession of this unveiling, in Hungarian, that they have not spoken of it, received the authority, and then they have done it. You nationalised our municipal schools; you took away the Hungarian textbook market, the freedom to choose textbooks, from Friday to Monday, in three days; you set up the KLIK; then they promised the teacher career to compensate for them, they said they were putting a lot of money into it, and at the beginning it was, it must be acknowledged. They also had the promise to move forward in time, the year after KLIK was set up, that the teaching career that, let's face it, a classic honeycombage gives its durability and credibility that the projection fund is the minimum wage at all times. My first question is that this budget contains this promise. The question is by no means prosaic, it's better I answer it, because it's embarrassing for you: this promise, as it is, has been broken, in the pedagogical career, the minimum wage for two years, and then taken out of it as it is, so that promise has been in the category of scam for years. They obtained the support of many educators to support the pedagogical career and the Public Education Act by believing that they would integrate wage increases on a systemic basis, assuming that the minimum wage would change year after year and in a positive direction, thereby increasing their wages and income. They broke that promise. They broke it while they were literally promising. Therefore, it is worth raising the question that if the pedagogical career did not complete a detail of the Public Education Act within the meaning of a number of the wordings of their former secretary of state, but on the two pillars of what we have just said, called professional measures, and on the material, financial measures on the pedagogical career, but one of these pillars has been taken and broken, then the idea that has been implemented with our children, our grandchildren, with more than one and a half hundred thousand educators, is reflected in the quality of Hungarian public education after a decade. [[15.10]] Assuming that there is no Hungarian government that wants to act against the standards of Hungarian children, Hungarian teachers and Hungarian education, it is important to consider that the measures that followed a decade ago have made a series of promises that made them do so, which are also included in the budget for 2022. I would like to ask you with all due respect to show you the only research and results accepted by a credible, international, recognised and accredited organisation that says that the quality of Hungarian public education is higher than in 2010 and before 2010. Only one! Because they won't be able to show you any of them. Compared to their own actions, the results of recent international surveys show an increase, which, by the way, compensates for what they have done wrong, only partially. We managed to get it down to minus 10, and now they're proud they're only at negative 7. That's the result. I must say to you in the debate on the budget that the quality of Hungarian public education in 2021 is not higher than when they took over the government, but it doesn't reach it; however, there is no doubt that we should translate it into the language of the budget, it is not that money has not been put into public education. It would be easy to write and build the opposition speech on the fact that standards are not better because they have otherwise failed to provide adequate funding. It's bigger than that, you're conceptually mistaken. You've missed the basics. There is no professional opinion that does not say that three academic years should be sufficient to show practical experience, not from the adoption of the law, but from its introduction. You set up the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre on 1 January 2013, and we are now at the end of the 2020-21 academic year, and there is no professional opinion that would say that real experience could not be drawn in that time. I must therefore say that it has not been in the interests of this country that everything that has been achieved in public education over the last decade and for which money has also been allocated in the budgets. That's too bad. That's a big problem, because it means that with their budget, the particular character I was talking about at the beginning is negative. The fact is that here I have little responsibility for the Ministry of Finance and its State Secretary, Minister and apparatus, workers and political will executives, but those who supported the concept and then made so much money at government level over the last decade. Because if you had done it right, the quality of Hungarian public education would have increased or even increased after a decade. But it's not real. In addition, once again: I have done so many times in the last decade here in the Hungarian Parliament, not with my request or with our suggestions, but with their own promise, whose violation has contributed entirely to the failure of Hungarian public education to do what was planned. After a decade of the adoption of their law, the National Public Education Act, a decade after the adoption of the law, it is safe and well-founded to say that it is a conceptual mistake, and you have taken Hungarian public education on a bad path. And this is the fate of Hungarian children, students and teachers. I suggest we look at what's going on with higher education. Just because the national higher education law was also adopted ten years ago, with a few weeks apart; in time it was first higher education and then on 11 December the Public Education Act. As a person who had the authority and the opportunity given by his fate to influence the issue of Hungarian education in substance, I would like to draw your attention to one more thing. Back in the day, a decade ago, we had the political attitude to have sane and professional disputes with each other. There have been committee meetings where, by the way, you, honourable pro-government people, have been willing to argue with each other, because there was no shame in arguing with each other about a particular professional issue. Hold on, we even agreed. He also dared to say opposition and party of government that he agreed. Then a sentence of this law was said in your internal debates, which was then made public, which said that the adoption of this professional law is a matter of political loyalty. I repeat: the adoption of a professional law is a matter of political loyalty. You guys understood that perfectly. Since then, there has been no real professional debate on this issue. You will tell us what you are required to do, but you are unable to correct it, you cannot take the self-correction. I must say that this is also true of the case of higher education. I would like to suggest that we do an overview here as well: what have you done with Hungarian higher education in ten years? Nothing in the first half of the decade. At least they admitted that. State Secretarys have been replaced so often, concepts have been changed so often... I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that, although not from the direct circles of education management, but from a very influential circle and person, first from the head of the Ministry of Finance and then from the President of the Hungarian National Bank, the issue of self-financing, self-sustaining Hungarian higher education was explained in detail. They quickly removed it from the agenda, because when they began to look at the consequences of what it meant in the structure, they realized that it was something they had been completely opposed to. But no doubt a debateable concept has seen the light of day with the title "Development in Higher Education"; I would just like to remind you that the word Foundation has been described three times in the entire texture of this professional text, including footnotes, three times: three times in the main text, once in a footnote. About the change they wish to make in Hungarian higher education by the end of the decade, at the beginning of the new decade, both in terms of the budget and in terms of structure, in the concept adopted by the government, the change of grades in higher education was not an orphan word. [[15.20]] I also ask with respect that in any post-2010 election campaign or programme published by the parties of their government coalition, only once show that the vast majority of the institutions of Hungarian higher education are being handed over to the foundation. Just one example is that you have stated this at the level of the concept, that you have gone to the electorate and stood before the people of Pécs, the people of Szeged, the people of Debrecen, yes, we want the University of Szeged not to belong to the Hungarian state, because then they would have justified it. With all due respect, I just want you to show that you did this once, because you won't be able to do that. But even in the text that is proclaimed as a concept that they themselves accept, there is nothing there. In this case, I must ask the question, however, that with the measure of which, as appropriate, we find evidence in the budget for next year, that they believe that the quality of Hungarian higher education can be increased by placing it in the form of a foundation established for a specific purpose and in a manner from state ownership and maintenance, the quality of Hungarian higher education will increase. I'm just saying to you that you've done this once in public education, and I was just detailing it, in 2011, and after a decade, we're where we are, and it's true that the standard doesn't reach a decade ago. Now it is said that this is because the quality of Hungarian higher education and their institutions must be made more competitive, it must be caught up, this is the right way, and this will be what puts Hungarian higher education institutions or some of them in the first 100, or at least the first 200 in these particular international rankings. Then I ask you with respect, because what has been said has been that in the area, as we have also missed the Central European region in the broad sense of Central Europe, let us look at it. Austria's best university, the University of Vienna, Universität Wien is wholly owned and maintained by the Austrian State, significantly better than the first university in Hungary; state ownership. The Charles University of Prague is a state university in the Czech Republic. Jagello University in Krakow is also ahead, closer to the best Hungarian university, but still ahead, also state university. But let's look at a university that has been visited by Hungarian students for centuries. The University of Heidelberg, Karls Ruprecht Universität Heidelberg Baden-Württemberg, is wholly and exclusively owned by the federal state of the world. The University of Bologna, where Hungarian students have been going for more than half a millennium, is, of course, a state university. In the first 100, and if we look at it not in political slogans, but in professional thoroughness, there is no world ranking in universities, higher education institutions, where in the first 100 there would be a university with a foundation reservation that was previously a state university. It is not an argument to me that there are several foundation universities, such as Georgetown University, which is the most important and rightly mentioned to re-establish international relations in the United States, such as Harvard and many others. It's worth talking about Oxford and Cambridge separately, that's a different category, but there are foundation universities. However, universities that were state-owned and state-owned and became foundations cannot be found in the first 100, which is what you set as a goal, they said that this is the right procedure, that is why you need it as a foundation. You're not telling the truth in a professional sense. By the way, there is a university that is state-owned and from state-owned to foundation form, so it is, for example, in Finland, Alvar Aalto University, please not in the first 100; it is not in it. Design and design is the main profile, very excellent in this area, but the university as a whole is not included in the first 100. With this, I ask you very much not to feed the voters who are dealing with this every day in terms of the profession. However, other things have been said here on the subject of foundational reservation, which I am obliged to confront as opponents, and I look forward to your reaction. You have indeed promised these universities an unprecedented amount of money before the Senate decision of each university. They told professors, members of the senates, rectors, members of the Senate of various bodies, that the institution, which is their alma mater... and all of us who belong to a university, to a dorm, is a lifelong bond, it is a great thing if Pécs, Pécs, if the Eötvös Loránd University or Eötvös College, then it is, but much more than just a professional relationship, also a human emotional relationship. Which professor would deprive his own institution of a crazy amount of money that would otherwise benefit the institution? Obviously, all of us who are turning around in Hungarian higher education talked to those who had the right to vote and have the Senate, who, while doubting the whole concept, did not think that the form of foundation was redemption, but did not want to deprive their institution of such importance, such a great source, so they voted for it. Communication from the Hungarian Academy of Sciences on 19 January 2021:, The universities in Hungary will clearly be the winners of the EU's recovery fund, of the HUF 6,000 billion allocated to Hungary, HUF 1509 billion can be used by these institutions. The article of Koronavirus.gov.hu, February 4th, explained the second phase of the economic re-launch plan starting from April, focusing on higher education. Minister of Finance Mihály Varga has planned a HUF 1500 billion development, while the Prime Minister hopes that this will be up to HUF 2000 billion. February 4th, that's when the Senate votes, by the way, I'm just saying. 2 March: Out of the HUF 1509 billion, it is planned that higher education will receive HUF 955 billion for infrastructure, HUF 382 billion for scientific and innovation parks, HUF 172 billion for the renewal of vocational training, adult education and higher education training; kormany.hu/hirek/gazdasag-ujrainditasi-accioplan. This was promised during the time when these people voted and voted. They voted in Pécs, Debrecen, Budapest, Szeged. In February, they said this would be April. The votes ended on 13 April: Hungary's recovery and resilience plan and the renewal of universities HUF 1191.52 billion appropriations. Then on 26 April, Gergely Gulyás announced that Hungary was entitled to HUF 2511 billion in funding and a further loan of HUF 3384 billion, but we do not ask for the loan. [[15.30]] This was the part where the promise was made to higher education. They tried to explain that to me somehow. For example, in the case of higher education, there is no doubt that he was a well-versed constitutional judge who is now entrusted with this task, István Stumpf's statement in Szeged, magyarnarancs.hu, internal policy section, 4 May, quote: . The government will raise the missing amount of development in another way. At least HUF 500-600 billion from the budget would be needed to achieve the originally planned HUF 1500 billion higher education development. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. With all due respect, show me the 500-600 billion forints that are included in the budget presented, which the Prime Minister, by the way, has promised. They can't show it because it's not in it. You promised the Hungarian universities the money in exchange for the foundation transition, then, after the votes were completed, you gave up the European Union's funds first, and then, in violation of the public statement of your own Prime Minister's mandate, you denied it in the budget and did not include it. You are implementing the most important reform of the structure of higher education in the last century by fooling the participants. He's been scammed. Because these people voted in the same way, in the possession of what the highest-level representatives of the government promised, not in general, but in numerical terms. I would like to say that the exact same pattern is in place in the field of culture. The fact that the management of cultural policy can hardly be traced within their structure of government, that the great national cultural institutions and public education are within the Ministry of Culture within the EMMI; the issue of foreign Hungarian cultural institutions at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; the special mandate of the Minister or Prime Minister, depends on the Liget programme or Castle; the case of archaeology, historic protection and exploration at the Prime Minister's Office; and the film and film art at the Ministry of Economy and, in the case of a special representative, this presents the model of the history of independent Hungarian administration in the most scattered cultural governance citation. But then the Petőfi Literature Agency emerges from this chaotic-looking multitude, which in the same form, becomes a member of the foundational transformation, and becomes the sole manager of the very significant section of Hungarian culture, but by getting out of the property and maintenance of the Hungarian state. You have done something that is technically unfounded and has the same future as public education a decade ago. How could they have released Hungarian rural higher education, all of our universities, from the hands of the Hungarian state? How could they do that by promising a crazy amount of money, and then this money was withdrawn on every level and not give away virtually anything? But why? It's not because you don't have a concept in your head. Not at all because they would think that education or culture is not important. Yes, you can. It's very important. Honourable Members, The literature and not necessarily the literature on education or culture, but rather the literature on the exercise of power, defines two ways of the large area that I have detailed, rather than the one that is dealt with by politics and decision makers. One says that the purpose of education and culture is to equip people and communities with proper experience with the great, intimate, intimate human relationship of knowledge transfer and knowledge transfer, so that the next generation becomes a critical, adaptable and adaptable generation who can deal with its own destiny. This is one of the key potential, therefore possible, practices of education and culture, which can be achieved by policy. However, there is another one, which is not subject to the child and not to the individual who does a lot of work for culture, but to the subject of the power. Because education and culture, if not interpreted correctly, are without doubt a very suitable tool to cement power, to retain power. And to get to the essence of what I have to say, the attempt to conquer the intellectual and intellectual space: you are proclaiming in your budget an educational and cultural policy in the language of money, numbers, which is an attempt to occupy the Hungarian intellectual and intellectual space. You want to dominate culture and education in Hungary. You have withdrawn the possibility of choosing a free textbook, you have taken away the municipal schools, you have set up a central and central institution because you want to rule over the next generation. They want you to think as you dictate, to get used to it, that what you tell them is the truth. That's why he has the whole structure, and that's what the budget is for. Similarly, the transformation of higher education: you are not doing the foundation outsourcing because you are convinced that this form is the real and true way of raising standards, you want to keep your own influence and power in the most important workshops in the intellectual space, in the key institutions of research, education, social mobility, in higher education. That is why they commit the professional sin of not leaving a single state-owned university in the Hungarian countryside. I must say, therefore, that there is no budget behind which such a concept is, therefore, not the improvement of standards, but the concreteization of power and the preservation of power, the real purpose which I, we could accept. I am not just against numbers, I am against the idea that you want to manage one of the most important areas of our country, education and culture. What I'm against is that they refer to it as knowing that it's not true. I am opposed to promises being made, and when this promise is made by honest bodies, grey professors at work and science, it is voted in favour, a few days later, they break their promise, and they don't give a penny to where thousands of billions were promised a few weeks ago. It's not okay. It's not okay, and I don't see that it's professionally possible to fix it. [[15.40]] There's only one thing that can change when you're forced to hand over the possibility of government. And to make it clear that the election campaign should not take it as some kind of empty, slogan-like promise, it should be clear now: we will never accept that the Hungarian state has been deprived of the best of the Hungarian higher education institutions. We will never accept that, for example, the 150-year-old institution of Hungarian theatre and cinema was taken away the way it was taken. We will never accept that, with such a budget, such a concept is being promoted and that such a concept is being implemented. And also as someone who considers it important for a politician to ask for the support of voters from time to time, not only in general, not only as a representative of a large field, but, as my original profession, the historians said, in the battle of the field. I stand before the voters every four years in Pesterzsébet and Kispesten, and it is an honor to be elected four times in singles, even when I shouldn't have started in singles. But for this trust that I'm asking for in next year's elections, it's still up to you to tell me what he stands for and to submit to this budget. In Pesterzsébet, one of the most beautiful parts of the capital's Danube coast is the falling part of the Ráckeve-soroksár Danube branch. Honestly, completely independent of political affiliation, come over there sometime, take a walk. Ten kilometers from the Hungarian Parliament, they find a world that is hardly believed to be part of a capital city. When I was talking about thousands of billions, it was to protect the wildlife there, to preserve the green surface, but at the same time to relax the existing measures and planned measures, which I described in detail in my amendment, were kicked to HUF 3 billion. I would sincerely like this amendment to be adopted, as I have tabled for the benefit of the people of Pesterzsébet and the people of Kispest in other areas. Dear Parliament, The issue of Hungarian education and Hungarian culture, as well as the everyday life of a city, a metropolitan district or area, depends on political insight on many occasions. There are concepts that are collapsing. It's not that we don't understand each other, it's that we think differently. Therefore, I, we, said in time, and in the coming months now less than a year each time, and if you are willing to have a noble debate in front of the greatest public, I would be happy to stand up with any of your truly conceptual executive officials and confront our views, but this budget will never receive our support. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-05-20-74	Thank you. I now address Secretary of State József Bódis of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. Here you go, Secretary of State, Professor.
u2021-05-20-75	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Secretary of State, Since I have been here, education has been affected in two speeches, especially higher education; President Hiller has also talked about the last ten years of public education. It is true that we are here after such a long period of time when we can talk about matters of more than ten years. In terms of public education, its transformation is about a conceptual solution to a current situation. Yeah, it was structural transformation and everything else. We advance it to the decision makers at the time to do so with the best of intentions. It was evident that public education on a municipal basis did not work well, that in some places it fell apart, and that it was infinitely unbalanced. This was indeed the result of a change of structure, which could even be seen as nationalisation. The Klebelsberg Institute Management Center has stood up, eliminated its initial problem operation, and I think that today we can talk about a stable, functioning public education system. We may all agree that education education is usually a constantly changing, dynamic system that needs to work along strategies and concepts, but we also need to correct the problem in the right way if we detect it. I think that we should accept those surveys, in which we have a significant number of international surveys, which are not very good in terms of performance. But, for example, the secondary data analysis of the PISA survey, which has often been cited, revealed positive signs. For example, our young students have been able to prevent students studying digital skills in German public education, otherwise highly valued and apparently well-functioning. This is exactly the 21st. In the century, when everything related to digitalization and computer technology is related to their use, it is a positive result that should be observed and rejoiced. And I think we can also agree that the hundreds, thousands of teachers, teachers who work in public education, do their activities with a high level of professionalism and serious pedagogical work, but obviously there is much to develop in this area. Here, Congressman Hiller said that we went from the municipal system to nationalization. If we move to higher education, there is an objection to a different phenomenon where the public actor moves back a step and, as a citizen, it is clearly a private university that has now been created, but as they receive serious public orders and funding, I think it would be better to mention these new model-shifting universities as a category, with the exception of Corvinus, a typical private university direction, but there is such a category in international literature in relation to all other aspects, that government-related private university. I couldn't say it well in Hungarian, because it might be misunderstood, but I think that this definition expresses the direction that has just appeared in higher education. In any case, in the first half of the previous decade, higher education has had serious problems, including funding problems. [[15.50]] It can be said that the former economic and financial crisis has spawned into higher education, I think that it has spawned into all sectors, including higher education. In fact, from 2012, for example, the scientific norm was no longer available for universities, because it was needed elsewhere. I was a rector then, so we weren't happy to complete this period, but it's true that we started to think that, by the way, there's a resource tight, there's a Aht. and other laws that make it difficult to operate in the state system and what direction of development there is. About four and a half years ago, on Corvinus, I was asked to give a lecture as the then president of the Rector's Conference, which was to show what breakout points there were in higher education. That's where I outlined this possible foundational solution. I agree with Mr Hiller, Mr President, Minister, that there are state universities in the world that are very well-functioning and at the top of the world, there are foundations that are on top of it, but we have to think about one here. Yes, we are now moving from seemingly state universities to private universities, and that is true. But in this social and economic environment, Oxford University doesn't know how to work here; I don't know how to work here. Whether it's state or foundation. In Hungarian reality, Hungarian universities must perform in such a way that they can stand on an international level. By the way, I don't think they're doing badly, but we want them to do better. What aren't we doing wrong? For example, the change of career in higher education by the Minister was a strategic material, which became a law, a lot of things, and aimed at economic stability, aimed at internationalisation and many other issues. He also set out that universities should not operate in an ivory tower in isolation, but in the surrounding society and economy in such a way that they can see the meaning of their work, i.e. the meaning of the university's work. I think that in practically five years we have tripled the number of foreign students studying in Hungary from the value of 10,000, now there are around 37 thousand foreign students in the total number of 280 thousand, a serious achievement. At my own university, I was in a position to see the Hungarian student population going down. And then came the second period, where I weighed myself as a rector, and I thought about how I stood in front of the university's public opinion that the university was running out, especially the students. We've come up with a plan, despite all our problems, and I'm asking you not to listen to me, Mr. Secretary. a fund that served internationalization. Our annual deficit was roughly two to four billion, and we spent another 200 million on internationalisation. The effect of this was that the number of foreign students moving between 1000 and 1200 went to 4500-4600 by 2008, when I handed over the Rectorship. It was the greatest achievement of my life as a college leader. And I can see that, of course, more universities could take such a step, but not everyone. Other people could, and we wouldn't be talking about between 30 and 40 thousand, we'd be talking about, say, 80 and 100 thousand foreign students. Don't let anyone think it's just a financial issue. No. I suggest to anyone to come to Pécs, go out to Széchenyi Square or to the pedestrian street now the terraces are opened, listen to the conversations: they usually flow in a foreign language, the atmosphere of the city has changed, otherwise the city and the neighbourhood in a not very good economic situation has changed in the atmosphere of foreign students from three to four times the previous number. If Hungarian higher education succeeds in implementing this change, this program will change in its atmosphere. It is different to study at an international university because according to international standards, we talk about an international university when ten percent or more of students are foreign students. Thank God more universities can tell you that. So the atmosphere is different, and by the way, it can clearly create a more stable situation. Let's talk about this 1,500 billion. I'm happy to talk about it, because I take it seriously, but maybe no one can take seriously that if this 1500 is promised, for example, it will be in the university budget next year. 1500 billion is the amount of money I'm gonna use to declare that universities wouldn't be able to do anything about it right now. But what did they do with it? They've prepared their institutional development plan. Their institutional development plan includes their infrastructure and asset development programme and their human resources programme. Our proposal to universities was that if you think in an amount of resources, you should think only 50 percent in walls, you should focus on other instruments and human resources. Universities put the program together, within the limits we proposed. Of course, I have to refuse anything that would have been depression, extortion, anything else. Yeah, it was information, we gave you information. Universities have made their own decisions. I think that the university senators are completely autonomous beings, educated, serious, smart people, and that's how they made the decisions. I have followed every university, but my own university in particular, every sentence said, every debate, criticism, support note and the vote itself has been held with a heightened head. And maybe I won't tell you a secret that I've had the honor of being asked to be president of the future board of trustees, which I'm going to take on with my head high, and I'd like to prove to you that, without autonomy restriction, the opening of another space of movement can make a progressive, more modern, better university. I am sure, by the way, and it is one thing not from RRF, although, to my knowledge, this issue has not yet been completely closed, but then these improvements will be made from another source. One more important thing. We always talk about the use of university knowledge, not only at the level of individuals in diplomas, but also at the level of scientific achievement that appears in individual universities, is useful and has an economic and social benefit. The science and innovation parks used to talk about science parks, which is exactly the concept they organize. At the moment, there will be a government referral for TIP parks because we expect government decisions on individual science and innovation parks, because then there will be a tangible and enforceable programme, behind which there will also be a source. [[16.00]] Now we have to decide that on one side nationalization was a negative direction, let's say from the side of public education, and by the way, we have also changed vocational training, and I'm just saying, and I can take on everything that happened in vocational training, and then in higher education, this is, like, a private direction, and that's negative. I think that both of them were brought by life in response to the growing questions and problems, but I don't think they're magic wands either. I think that it takes a lot of work and energy to make all of this a success, and that's why we live and work, I think, all of us who are active in higher education. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-20-76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Our next speaker was Attila Móring József, representative of KDNP. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-05-20-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The planning of next year's budget and, unfortunately, its parliamentary debate cannot ignore our struggle against the Crown Virus for over a year. The Fidesz-KDNP government has done everything it can and still does to ensure a successful defence, and we can also see tangible results. If we look at this period, we can see that last spring the government reacted exemplaryly to the unexpected situation, thus keeping the number of infections and the number of people who died at a low level in the first wave of the epidemic. Meanwhile, in many European countries, health has reached the limit of its capacity and, unfortunately, it has suffered great losses. The second wave of the epidemic has made it clear that the pandemic can only be defeated by vaccine. The Government of Hungary did not do nothing, but contacted all potential manufacturers and sought alternative solutions to achieve the maximum possible grafting as soon as possible. As a result, we are now very high on vaccinations in Europe and globally, which is expected to be a faster recovery from both the health and economic difficulties of the epidemic compared to the European average. Thanks to the large rate of grafting, we are now in the landing branch of the third wave, we passed the four and a half million vaccine days ago. Today we can say that there is an abundance of vaccines, an online schedule has become available, after which you can get the desired vaccine within days. Let us hope that the desire for vaccination remains undisturbed, because it is in our common interest as well as in our joint thanks. In the budgetary debate, we cannot forget the superhuman work and exemplary standing of our doctors, nurses, health workers. The government can estimate their sacrifices for decades with a historical scale of health wages. Medical salaries increase an average of two and a half times in two years, and we do not forget the work of health professionals, as by 2022 a nurse will earn an average of two and a half times the amount he received before 2016. In terms of the budget, this means that next year we will spend nearly HUF 460 billion on the implementation of the health wage increase programmes launched in 2021. In addition to raising wages for healthcare workers, the government also places great emphasis on the development of health institutions, which is also important in order for a possible pandemic to be prepared for health care. The aim of the developments is a modern, the XXI. An efficient supply system capable of responding to the challenges of the 20th century. To this end, it is necessary to develop certain national institutes and center hospitals. It is essential to strengthen infectological facilities, to establish epidemic hospitals and a pulmonary network that meet specific needs, as well as to renew blood supply, to develop county and urban infirmary facilities and outpatient facilities. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the government is doing everything in its power to alleviate economic damage and to give all the help to businesses in distress, the Hungarian families in distress. It should be pointed out that the government did not respond to the economic situation caused by the virus with austerity, but, on the contrary, it offers many opportunities and support to families in the context of the economic recovery action plan and extended the scope of family support measures. The government, with the agreement of the Christian Democratic People's Party, introduced a credit moratorium and provided wage subsidies for sectors in difficulty. It will provide investment support to 1,500 Hungarian companies, which has contributed to the preservation of hundreds of thousands of jobs and the creation of tens of thousands of jobs in recent months. Both the current, 2021 and 2022 budgets aim at relaunching the Hungarian economy. We may not be able to get our former lives back entirely, but in the current situation, we can develop the Hungarian economy even ahead of our competitors, and we do not have to give up our social strengths. This is a historical opportunity, which, if used well, could form the basis for the socio-economic development of the coming decades. If we stick to the slick facts, we can see that, on the basis of the opinion of the State Audit Office, in preparing the bill on the central budget for 2022, the planning organisations have complied with the legal requirements, thus meeting the requirement of transparent budget planning. The bill expects an economic growth of 5.2 per cent by 2022, inflation of 3 per cent, deficit-to-GDP target of 5.9 per cent and a security reserve of more than 0.4 per cent of GDP. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) It should be stressed that the economic re-launch action plan allows everyone who has been put in a difficult situation to recover. Our common interest coincides with the government's goals, because we want everyone who has lost their job to be able to get it back or get a new job, every entrepreneur who has had to close his business, to be able to restart it and even further develop it if possible. It's no small task. For this, the action plan envisages a total of HUF 7300 billion in the budget in 2022, representing 13% of domestic GDP. This huge amount is in proportion to the size of the task. In addition to the expansion of expenditure, the government continues to represent a policy of tax reduction, and therefore the tax reduction measures continued and continue during the coronal virus epidemic. The employer's tax burden on wages will be further reduced by 2 percentage points from 1 July 2022, the contribution to vocational education and training will be reduced by half a percentage point as a result of the reduction of the administrative burden and the rate of the social contribution tax will be reduced by half a percentage point. One of the first decisions of the Fidesz-KDNP government after 2010 was to introduce a family tax relief for children. This was followed by new family support measures, the family home-building discount, which then expanded with the village CSOK, the baby shower support, and the four-year-old mother-free. The government's measures allowed large families to buy cars at a reduced price, which has already been used by over 20,000 families. Overall, it can be said that during the Fidesz-KDNP governance, support for families has increased by two and a half times, one of the highest in Europe and about 5 percent of GDP. Family-friendly governance has also contributed to Hungary's second largest economic growth in the European Union in 2019, while the desire to have children has grown the most. The government remained committed to encouraging childbearing during and after the coronal virus epidemic, supporting families raising children and improving their quality of life. [[16.10]] It continuously helps create and renovate its own home, recognises and evaluates the extra efforts of families, encourages complex development of rural and small settlements through a number of measures. The central element of the family-friendly building of Hungary is the family protection action plan, which will also be covered in the next year's budget in addition to a number of other measures. In the budget, nearly HUF 2780 billion will be available next year to support Hungarian families. In this context, young people under the age of 25 will be exempt from personal income tax as of 1 January. This will, above all, help young people to participate in the labour market, start their own lives and set up a family. In addition to the measures taken so far, the government will further expand the support of families with children and having children. As part of the home creation programme, it also helps families moved to a new home with VAT and tax exemption in 2022, which will save them HUF 170 billion next year. In addition to the home-building programme, the home-refurbishment programme will continue. Home renovation support is non-refundable, up to HUF 3 million, and will help families or divorced or separated parents who are expecting or raising at least one child from 1 January this year. They already have their own home, they want to live in it, and I want to modernise this existing home. Home renovation loans help those who do not have the self-esteem to apply for home renovation support. If the parties concerned finance self-strengthening from this loan, they shall not be deprived of the aid. According to our values, the elderly, retired people in the family deserve special respect, as they have worked for the country, for the communities for decades, and have taken on the burden of raising their children and grandchildren without a word. The amount of budget resources that can be used for retirement will increase by HUF 255 billion to more than HUF 4162 billion next year. Next year's budget accounts for 3 percent inflation, thus increasing pensions and pension-like benefits as of 1 January. The 13th-month pension taken by Balliberal governments is available for the second phase of 2022 and for the payment of the 2022 pension premium in the next year's budget for HUF 230 billion. The Hungarian government also prioritises the role of women in the family in their old age. In 2022, the central budget provides HUF 332 billion for women who spend most of their lives working and raising children with 40 years of entitlement to retirement before the retirement age. Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of next year's budget, it is important to talk about the nature around us, its values and their preservation. The climate and nature conservation action plan was adopted by the Government on 13 January 2020. The aim of the action plan is to ensure that, taking into account sustainability aspects, the Hungarian State will do everything in its power to ensure that future generations can inherit our country in a better state than it currently is. In the framework of the economic re-launch action plan, the construction of the green energy and circular economy will start from the second half of this year, as well as the full digitalisation of the Hungarian economy. This is in line with Hungary's climate protection objectives. Our common future is also affected by the need for clean and renewable energy to play a greater role, and energy efficiency is also becoming more and more important. Overall, this has a positive impact on energy supply, transport, construction and manufacturing, including major green investments and improvements in these areas. The modernisation fund aims at modernising energy systems and increasing energy efficiency. We must also take into account the fact that in a large part of Hungary's territory people live in the double grip of water scarcity and water surplus, flooding and inland water, every two years being droughty. The biggest droughts affect between 80 and 90 percent of the country's territory, while the flood risk accounts for 23 percent of the country. This ratio is among the largest in Europe. It also has a serious impact on the budget that the climate change experienced in recent decades can continue, resulting in the water supply of the Carpathian Basin under the 21st century. It can remain extreme in the first century. It is therefore important to adapt to climate change and to reduce the risk of natural disasters. We need to improve municipal water supply and cleaning, as well as sewage treatment. We need to think about improvements in waste management and remediation. We must not neglect the development of nature conservation and wildlife protection. We must increase energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources. We cannot stress enough the importance of protecting the environment, which can provide an appropriate basis for future generations today. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of opposition contributions, it cannot be ignored that the lives of municipalities have been about developments and crisis management for many years now. While the question between 2002 and 2010 was to close the kindergarten or school, they are now developing, expanding and building crèches throughout the country. I have also heard concrete proposals in relation to my narrower country, Somogyország, that we need a small railway from Mesztegnyő and a Balatonmáriafürdő-Mesztgényő bike route. But there is already a source for them: 650 million forints are available for the small railway and 1 billion forints for the bike route, and the planning processes are in full use. They will be built as the road 68 is renewed, and the connecting road of Vityapusta-Gamás has been built for 60 years. In Balatonboglár there will be a visual winery on Jánoshegy, and many new projects will serve the people of Somogy. If you think it's necessary, feel free to bang open gates. These suggestions are a bit like I'm saying that it would be desirable for Újpest to win the Hungarian Cup this year, and then, when it turns out that this has already happened, I can be proud to say that, well, I told you so. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion and in summary, next year's budget will provide the Hungarian population with the possibility of a fresh start while preserving our achievements so far. The Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party promises the greatest support for this. I trust that, after a difficult period, we will be able to make use of our opportunities, for which the 2022 budget will provide a sound basis. May God help us in his execution. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-20-78	Thank you very much. Welcome. We will continue the debate on the draft budget law. Mr László Hajdu, representative of DK may speak. Here you go.
u2021-05-20-79	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. I listened to the debate yesterday, and I also tried to listen to it today. I think that there are two opinions: one who clearly praises this budget without any criticism, the other who is a little more critical. I'll be on the other side. Before I do that, a few words. Listening to the Minister who presented the budget yesterday morning, I have to say that even professionally acceptable, demanding speech was given, although there was hardly any mention of the fact that there was about one. 3174 settlements, the fate of these settlements, in Hungarian, mentioned the municipalities at the very end in a few words. Listening to the two rapporteurs of the State Audit Office, I also had the same impression that the municipalities did not appear in the budgetary opinion. Then the President of the Fiscal Council put not a lot of words into this 3174 settlement. I must add that the budget must also be very mined, except for the small chapter on certain norms, but the budget lines must be hunted down in such a way that it will show how much support the municipalities will eventually be able to receive in 2022. [[16.20]] It was also comforting to say that it was designed with sufficient reserves, provisions, investment reserves, Brexit reserves, and many other reserves. So there are a number of reserves in this budget, but the use of this will obviously not be under the control of Parliament, and so on how this is being used, we will not know much. Of course, there may be a budgetary amendment, and in that case perhaps the Member may also be aware of it, and we can exercise parliamentary control in this way. You can find out about T/16118. 3315,000 billion of budget proposals planned with a deficit I don't think so. It reveals a significant public debt. And only HUF 401 billion was mentioned by the SAO, which is 1.9 percent of the budget, with a small debate on it, but this was just a comment. There is some debate on corporate tax, and I think that it might still be possible to promote sport, or perhaps too much has been done to support sport; this has not been shown in the debate. So I am going to talk about the municipalities in my comment, but before I do that, let me say that yesterday we received a small lecture from MEP Tamás Deutsch on this page, and in a rather significant comment, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa has already drawn up the period before 2010 instead of the last eleven years. I would like to say a few words in a reply from the last eleven years before I go to the municipalities, but it is essentially about the municipalities. He mentioned the description of the HUF 1300 billion debt on the part of the indebted municipalities. I have to add, as mayor, it was written in my office without asking for it. They just wrote it down. We didn't have a debt, but we had a credit rating backed by a guarantee, which we took on board a panel program. Because that left-wing government committed to grant 30 percent of the cost support for the financing of the panel houses, closing doors and thermal insulation, to which the residents of the house had to add 30 percent, and if there was a state decision and a decision of the residents, then the municipality could not avoid the aid of 30 percent. This was a popular thing, 5600 panel apartments were renovated in the XV. In the district, so in my current constituency. The only way to secure this was by borrowing a loan, which our bank managing the account gave on the basis of a serious credit rating. We could have paid it back, so we didn't need the state to come and do charity and write it down, because we could have paid for it. And I believe that much of the municipalities did. So we didn't spend it on working, not on social spending, but on development and energy efficiency development. I have to add that 10% of us were part owners in these houses, so there was also a municipal interest in this. By the way, the amount of support that we have in this budget is small, quite symbolic compared to what energy efficiency would require us to deal with it. That is just a symbolic amount that is translated into this budget; yesterday this number was spoken. It has been said that the municipalities should already acknowledge that this government is only given. Well, he didn't give us that much. Hódmezővásárhely, for example, is likely to be given to municipalities with the highest debt. 24 billion dollars in debt to Hódmezővásárhely. We don't know what he spent it on, but he had a debt of $24 billion. This would have been a compliment to four, five, or six districts if we had put together that such a small town could bring together such a debt. But if we look at it, we can see that it also came from irresponsible investments. Not only did social management consume 24 billion, or primary schools, but also poor investment. I must add that the State Audit Office examined this 1,300 billion, and the documents of this could be obtained by the mayors as it was available. But it is never mentioned when we talk about governance before 2010, how it was, when these loans came into being. Well, before the campaign period, with its mass, they were mostly foreign currency loans. It's almost like a campaign started. I was approached by an agent like this by the fact that it doesn't matter, and now the point is, he hasn't even looked at what kind of mayor I am, that the government needs to be overthrown. An incredible amount of foreign currency credit was concluded without any condition or obligation in the last six months, and this was the result of this huge debt. It had to be some sort of backup deal, because after the change of government, this description was the first measure. But we were also affected by further measures. This was the cover-up of the private pension fund that hit a large proportion of the people in the district, and then it was like this, and it hurts, the withdrawal of personal income tax. From the change of regime, ever since personal income tax, personal income tax has remained in the settlements. This government was the one who took away 100% of the personal income tax that stayed there, and it hasn't been since. But the same is the target and recipient aid, which was already in operation during the Antall administration, and has been operating all along, in a normative way, by tender, and not by right or left-wing decisions. This source of targeted and targeted support has also disappeared. We don't know where he's gone, but we can't apply for these anymore. Let me also mention that there was a dust road normative that financed the provision of solid road cover on the ground roads. This one's gone, too. Then let me also mention that the house savings bank has disappeared, which, in turn, is a serious blow to the condominiums. The cooperative and condominiums had a very serious blow to the taking of this cashier, but I must add that in the case of municipal tenements as well, and for each resident who was such a cashier. This is a gift from this government, so let's mention it. And speaking of the new national public education law, the municipalities were freed from very significant wealth by nationalising primary schools, because the wealth in which there was a lot of public money, a lot of targeted and targeted support was also in our case EU support, was simply taken from us without compensation, and today to schools that we tried to keep well, in good condition, we can only go in because we share lunch. This is the only task left for municipalities to share lunch, but our role in the selection of lunches and suppliers is small, because they had to be applied at the same time, and where there is more public money in some public procurement, the public procurement commissioner is appointed by the state. In English, we don't decide who will be our supplier. They're bringing us lunch from an 11,000-dose kitchen. We share this, we clean the kitchen, and we pay rent for anything previously owned and under the responsibility of the municipality. So this government has brought us a lot of things, which is surprising. But what causes the biggest surprise and the biggest confusion for the voters is that they cut the administration in half, the government office was established and the local government was established, and the customers went here and there, they don't know where to start. [[16.30]] So I have to say, he's divided. In our case, it is fortunate that we gave the building on the other side of the street, in which the government office operates, but there are four or five bus stops, or a transfer to the government office, so the administrative service is not better, but a little more difficult. I also wanted to mention the gift we call the utility tax, which is an incredible burden, in the case of Budapest it is a burden of billions, the burden of this transfer, there is no funding for this particular tax, because there is tolerance to raise prices. Covid has also brought us gifts that have already been mentioned here, free parking and free rental of municipal-owned business spaces are a complete surprise in the treatment of the virus. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In addition to many macroeconomic results, we have heard huge contributions from my fellow Members, boasting that in their constituency... only a few minutes in front of me was the Member, who said that they had won a billion for a bicycle ride, 600 million for a small train, and then I don't know what they had won money for. Well, in Budapest, in a metropolitan city, a district can't win a penny. So I have to say that in this budget, even if I voted in favour, I do not get a penny from this budget, and I do not have the opportunity for such and similar resources. But I could also mention my colleague, Mr Varga, in South Feyér County, with whom I sit on a committee, who reported a whole billion-series of how many billions they could get there in the settlement. Where is social justice in this? While you can see in the case of Budapest that we are going to any district, it can also be the Fidesz district, they are not getting any more money, and those voters must also go on these potty roads, no sidewalks, no road renovations, but there is no possibility of any other infrastructure expansion. So I have to say that for us, for municipalities with so-called higher tax power, the HUF 873 billion that is marked for municipalities in this budget is not a surplus, nor can it offset inflation. And if I compare that the army of around 25,000 will receive about a thousand billion in this budget, nearly a thousand billion or the Ministry of the Interior will also have a thousand billion, then only these two ministries will have a certain amount of HUF 2000 billion in this budget, while the 3176 municipalities will receive HUF 873 million. I'm looking at a ratio loss or a ratio problem here, I think. If I turn to the management of local governments, it's not about crying, because we're not going to build a road, we're not going to build a sidewalk, because we're not going to have any money at all. We're trying to run kindergartens, crèches, social institutions. The cultural normative in our case: a district of 81-82 thousand inhabitants receives 16 million HUF cultural normative. You can't turn this into a culture. So how can it be? Pestújhely, Rákospalota, Újpalota and even the Újpest side belong to me, but now take these three, these three areas have three cultural houses, their budget is around HUF 400 million, everyone is crying because they think it is little and we will get 16 million. What makes the difference? So all the money has been taken away from us, from the hip, here has been said many things, so in Hungarian, the business tax, and it has become final in this budget, that it is not casual and Covid's reason for the withdrawal of the car tax, but the final percentage. I did not mention that before 2010, the tax on motor vehicles remained at the municipalities at 100%, and they started after 60% of the tax was first lost, and now 100 percent. I don't know what kind of boundaries the sac has, but it can still touch us, I think it's a surprise. Such a surprise is the minimum wage. So, in the minimum wage, it can be agreed politically that we raise the minimum wage by 6 percent or 8 percent, but we do not receive any additions from the government, either to the minimum wage or to the standard minimum wage. In our case, we do not know whether there will be or not, the news is that there will be no minimum wage increase of a 4-percent minimum wage increase of HUF 80 million means expenditure of HUF XV represented by me. for district municipality. Since the minimum wage has this form, there's no state supplement, so I could make a deal, say the code number, raise the minimum wage, and be financed by someone who cares. Well, it's important to us, we're trying to find a source. So the very difficult thing about finding resources, Mr. Secretary, is where they come from. For example, we are trying to find a source to prepare areas for capital investors, but that would require a path, a channel, a lot of things. But if I don't have a proposal to build a channel or a way to get the cables there, we can't even negotiate. I can't tell an investor in advance to build it, because there's still public procurement and a lot more. Thus, local authorities, especially metropolitan authorities, have absolutely no opportunity to prepare the area in this budget either, but there is no place in the system itself for how I can create new jobs, how I can get new taxable persons, i.e. how we can generate new revenues. I would also like to mention, in the idea of relaunching the economy, that it is very difficult to restart the economy if it is necessary to restart this economy at all, that we, the municipalities, must suffer from the everyday problems of paying. The answer we get in many cases is that they have so many billions of securities. For a municipality, the State Audit Office, the MÁK, so the Hungarian Treasury will not allow a budget with code numbers in the budget that are not covered, because then I cannot commit. A State budget can be adopted without any collateral, but a municipal budget can only be adopted if it is backed by collateral. So what does a local government have to do with it? That, and it's a requirement, so the M.A.S. requires that this money should be placed in sovereign debt. So even if December... so, for example, we get the hip, the business tax, I can't keep that money in a cash register, in a safe, but I have to put it in government bonds, which I will use until 31 December at the last penny. So my comments in the capital usually come with 110 billion or different numbers in securities. Yes, but with a budget of 300 billion, it is in securities, and still zero forints is actually 110 billion, because that is not enough to enable the current amount that ensures the year's operation to be resolved. The municipality of Újpest and Rákospalota, represented by us, has securities until the next payment comes. A salary, if I include the payment of the premises, with the public costs of 600 million HUF, will be held in stock for the next month. So I'm forced to put it in stock to secure this working asset. The other thing is, it's good that he's got some kind of security that he's gonna be able to pay for either operation or as part of the operation. In his comments yesterday, Erik Bánki, Chairman of the Economic Commission, said that this budget is predictable, predictable, sustainable. [[16.40]] It's such a nice line, it sounded so good, it's fantastic, but the problem with that is that we have news, and we already have the proposal here that the municipal property will be hit again, that the municipal-owned tenements can be purchased under subject law, who are living in it. We don't know the end of the deal yet, but it's enough to think that the municipal fortune will be hit again. I mentioned once that the school property was taken away, that they took away the artificial grass fields in his yard, and that in my case, 360 million was built for 11 of these small courts, and that we could go back to this field with a rent. Now the apartments are being attacked like this. There is no way to know what the end of this is, but I think that in this case, if the Hungarian local government is divided by the fact that you are a good countryman and you belong to a good representative, the color is good, which is why you will receive money, and not by having 3174 single Hungarian settlements, and each one must live and work, then I think it is unnecessary to talk to us about Hungarians and nations in this house. We're talking conscious sharing, then. This Tiborc complaint I have told you, I think it might sound different in other settlements, and it obviously sounds quite different in the neighbourhood of a fellow Member with Fidesz, where it is possible to win a competition for wine shows. In my case, this means that I have the minimum right not to vote in favour of this budget. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-20-80	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the representative of Fidesz, Mr.László Tasó. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-20-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Fellow Members! In the debate on Hungary's central budget for 2022, there will, of course, be elements that have already been mentioned, and there are, naturally, some that it is absolutely important for me to confirm. In addition, I would like to highlight the impact of next year's budget on the 3rd constituency in Hajdú-Bihar County, as this is important to me and to the 99 thousand people living there. Several people said that re-launching the economy is the most important task in all the countries affected by the pandemic. The primary goal is to get everyone who's in a difficult situation back on their feet. This is why wage subsidies, programmes and improvements in support of job preservation were of particular importance this year as well. Of course, this unexpected blow in the world of economy and everyday life does not go away without a trace, a life situation unknown to date. That's what they say: it would've been nice to get this out in a draw, but unfortunately, it didn't work. A lot of families have died, left, a lot of lives have been broken because of the coronal virus epidemic, a lot of economic operators have gone bankrupt, obviously there's a lot of damage that has to be dealt with in some way. This is why it is important that the 2022 central budget alleviates the damage that has occurred as much as possible and that it gives us the opportunity to start again, to be strengthened again here in Hungary. I must add that the pandemic affected a growing country that could stand on its own, and Hungary was already in a position to cope with this economic problem, and had political stability that could help to deal with the epidemic. This is why we were able to secure HUF 3600 billion in the Health Insurance and Anti-CDC Fund, and that is why we will be able to re-launch the economy, keep jobs and create new ones in order to improve competitiveness. In the county of Hajdú-Bihar, in our constituency there are 99 thousand inhabitants, 15 settlements and one part of Debrecen constitute a community. I wouldn't say they're watching closely the budget debate, but I'm sure everyone's involved in what's going on in the wake of the budget. It is therefore extremely important that decisions be made to help what we politicians have planned and undertaken to catch up with those settlements in the Eastern region and those regions that are in a more difficult situation than our fellow countrymen living in the most fortunate part of Hungary or living in Budapest. Of course, there is a difference between opinions where it is better to live and where there is a better budgetary opportunity, but I think most people say that life is better in Budapest and east of Eden, in our world it is much harder. That's usually true. Since 2010, significant changes have also occurred in our region, and since 14 the development has started, but we have to say that apart from Debrecen, the other settlements cannot stand on their feet, and there is still a need for a number of improvements in Debrecen in order to attract the municipalities of Hajdú-Bihar County and the region. It is extremely important that all developments help the preservation of settlements, the possibility of living there and the natural opportunity to plan for a young person to live locally, stay where he was born. In our constituency, too, the support for home creation, the home renovation programme and we were naturally all pleased that families with children had been given an opportunity that we had never experienced before. It was particularly important in Sleepydon, Bagamér, Bocsakikert, Philip, Kokadon, Nyíracsád, Nyírárrány, Nyírmártonfalva and Newlét, that the conditions of the place could improve. The next year will be HUF 483 billion more, which will reach HUF 2778 billion in total. The proportion of pensioners in the constituency is quite high, so it is important that the second instalment of the 13th month's pension will arrive in Hajdúhadház, Hajdúsámson, Nyíradony, Létávértes, Téglás and Vámospércs, and that the pension premium will be implemented and become a reality. It is also very important for businesses and families to keep HUF 423.5 billion in their pockets next year, which means relief in the budget. Of course, it is very important for us, too, that the benefit of young people under the age of 25, free of sia, gives us a further chance to start a life. About HUF 358 billion will be insured for housing support, which makes it clear that families will remain focused, still a priority target area and one of the most important ones in our lives. There are many applications for EU funds opening in the autumn, many improvements have already been made in our settlements, and naturally there will be much more demand than reality and opportunity. Nevertheless, we look forward to it. It is therefore important that the Hungarian budget is able to add its own strength and its own share, using which we can make use of these resources. The development of the inland road network is particularly important in all settlements of the constituency, which we hope will be supported by some HUF 3.5 billion in the next period. Among other things, the development of the road network between Bagamér-Almosd, Vámospércs-Bagamér, Hajdusámson-Hajdúhadház, Nyírábrány-Fülöp will be built. There is a great demand for the construction of rainwater canals, and there is also a huge demand for the development of municipal buildings as well. We have received more support for the development of the local economy in recent years. By the way, it is very important that the HUF 109 billion funding that is foreseen remain in the Start programme. Unemployment and labour demand are also present in our region. This is a rather strange situation, since there are sectors where there is no labour and there are still quite a significant number of public workers. We must also naturally pay attention to the fact that those who have such an opportunity only for the time being have a human livelihood. Several times, the program of the Hungarian village has opened up quite serious opportunities for settlements of less than 5000 people. In the following year, this will be available at HUF 93 billion. There is also a significant HUF 77 billion of national agricultural subsidies in our world, with the help of which we can help farmers in many areas such as plant protection, agriculture and livestock farming. It is very important that the farm development programme continues to reduce the disadvantages of living. We love and are pleased to see that the closed garden programs will be rewritten, which will continue to be applied for by our settlements in the next period. Last time, Létértes and Hajdúhadház sent in successful applications. The funds for the re-launching of the economy will remain significant in 2022, with a number of people saying the envelopes for the support of large firms. I would like to mention that it is also very important for us to support small and medium-sized enterprises, for which there are currently running proposals, and we look forward to the following resources. Road development is particularly important for all regions. They also help to improve competitiveness and to stay in place. [[16.50]] In 2022 we see HUF 201 billion in the budget separately for this. Of this, HUF 150 billion is dedicated to the development of motorways, the development of the airport road, and there is also a development based on high social needs, where several of our settlements are affected. The development of main roads 471 and 48 in the constituency is crucial, and we are pleased that the government has made route 4 a priority for the national economy as well. This means that his planning will be accelerated, and we hope that his development will begin soon. In the area of railway development in the town of Debrecen, the north-west economic zone is covered by a budget of about HUF 12 billion. I have to add here immediately that the public procurement for planning has also been launched in connection with the development of road 100, which means that the connection between Debrecen and Nyíregyháza will be completed shortly, we hope, with a higher quality road connection. In addition, between airport developments, I must clearly highlight the development of Debrecen airport, for which HUF 1.5 billion is available in the 2022 budget. In the programme "Debrecen 2030" the government allocated HUF 14 billion in the draft budget. Many people have naturally heard that the vaccine factory is being built in Debrecen, which is a huge opportunity not to be in a situation like the one we were in at the beginning of the pandemic, not to be vulnerable to vaccine manufacturers, pharmaceutical operators. It is very important to say about these, although they were not in my constituency, but what is happening in Debrecen affects the entire county of Hajdú-Bihar, the entire region. It is also important to point out that in order to invade working capital, in order to support job creation, the €80 billion support that is foreseen will move the economy's blood circulation in an extraordinary way in the coming year, as has been the case this year. It is also important to mention that regional and cross-border development aid amounts to HUF 18 billion, including European territorial associations, which are based in Hungary; 21 out of 25 associations have their headquarters in Hungary. Among these are the European Territorial Association of the European Gate, which gives 35 settlements an operational opportunity, including 16 settlements in Romania and 19 Hungarian settlements. We are very pleased to have the opportunity, within the framework of operational support, to develop development plans and to implement them, as we hope. It is also important to point out that some HUF 91 billion of the programmes managed by the Tourism Agency help those working in the sector in all areas of the country. It is important to mention that the accommodation development concept of the Kisfaludy programme has been very successful, and many people have been able to make use of it. It is also important to mention that Máriusz Révész would bear more than HUF 4.1 billion, even ten times the amount, but it is a very significant amount in the area of active recreation programs. The development of Velodroms includes Debrecen, sports parks are being built, biking parks are being built in Hajdúhadház and is being built even in our other settlements in the constituency. It is also supported by the 143 billion forints individual construction investment package, which does not include, let's say, the construction of the firehouse in Nyíradony, but we are confident that it will be included in the next period. It would be extremely important for these grants to be launched on time and to help the competitiveness of the municipalities as soon as possible. It was said that the summary of the budget intentions, a character, said President. This is true, but I read the intention from the budget by clearly showing that we do not leave Hungarian people on the side of the road, we help Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses are more important to us than anyone else, and I think that there is a strong intention for Hungary to develop uniformly. This is the hardest thing in the world, and there will never be a budget that will be able to deal with every single problem, nor one that will be able to compensate for the Eastern disadvantages of the Western benefits, but that is not the goal. The goal is to be a safe country, a growing family and a good mood, because most of all it is missing. I see that the budget for 2022 will help Hungary to survive the period of standing up and recovery, to strengthen itself again, and to recapture the place that we have managed to reach once before. So I also support the budget on behalf of the settlements of the 3rd Constituencies of Hajdú-Bihar County, and I would encourage my fellow Members to do so. We hope that there will be many who will accept and support this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-20-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Honourable Members, Before continuing our work, I would like to inform you that it was possible to submit the amendments until 16:00; and I am also obliged to inform you that the KDNP fraction leader, Dr. István Simicskó, informed the Speaker in writing that KDNP will hand over its remaining timeframe to the Fidesz Group of Hungarian Civil Society. I'm gonna have to ask my colleagues to settle it this way. [[For signal:]] In the meantime, this has already happened, thank you very much. We will now continue to work with the speech of the representative of the LMP, Mr Péter Ungár. Here you go.
u2021-05-20-83	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to start by saying that this is a budget, as appropriate, which is about a period of economic crisis, and I would like to say that we are standing on the ground of facts, that this economic crisis is obviously not caused by the Orbán government, but by a global epidemic. At the same time, it is one thing that Austria has been called a laboratory by the Prime Minister in several radio interviews and even in the Parliament building that I do not know why we think that Austrian crisis management was the most successful, but this is what happened, but the central government in Austria has then announced that it will give a large amount of support to almost all municipalities regardless of their party color, and although there is no doubt that Austria's capacity is not similar to that of Hungary, it is expected that, as in the laboratory, this will happen in Hungary. The opposite has happened: resources have been withdrawn from the municipalities. There were such ridiculous things as the introduction of free parking, which does not make any sense from an epidemiological point of view, and causes local governments to lose revenue, but there were also things that meant more painful and greater amounts to the municipalities. For example, the withdrawal of half the trade tax, which is said to remain in the pocket of the entrepreneurs, is good, but at the same time it is an 11.25 percent tax burden, so the entrepreneur who, let's say, has been a bartender and hasn't had any income for three quarters of years has not been such a great help. They took this amount, but I don't want to talk about withdrawal, I want to talk about what happened here: compensation. In December of last year, HUF 1.38 billion was actually reimbursed to all Fidesz municipalities and not to any opposition government. You will say this in a dialogue, in which I started to say the other side, but I think it saves everyone time in the city of Békéscsaba, where there is definitely not a fidesz, but an independent mayor, who, at the same time, has had a good relationship with the government since he was elected, so I wouldn't count on the opposition or Salgótarján, by the way, received a lump sum, which he received every year. So other than that, they only gave it to the pro-government cities. Then György Balla became ministerial commissioner, and such a consultation process began, which was a little bit of Ionesco's Romanian absurd drama, a very interesting combination of a glass of water and Kafka A trial, where they said that it would be compensated by tax, but they said that they would not actually compensate for it, and in the end it came out as we saw the result that it was said to be in proportion to the tax force. Now, if you look at the whole, the two at the same time, and it makes sense, because they gave money to the city for the same reason, you see that Győr got 1.38 billion in total, Székesfehérvár got 1.38 billion in total, and for example Szombathely got zero. So, if we look at tax power, in the tax force proportional to the population, both Székesfehérvár and Győr are stronger than Szombathely, yet Szombathely received zero, and these cities received 1.38 billion. This can only be explained in one way: the difference between these cities is that Székesfehérvár and Győr have a fidesz mayor and Szombathely cannot be explained in any other way. If we try to explain it in a different way, we can say one more thing: that the Fidesz MEP in Székesfehérvár or the Fidesz MEP in Győr is doing his job better than Csaba Hende. That's the only way to explain it. There's no other explanation. [[17.00]] The thing is, when they take money from local governments, they take money from road renovations, they take money from day care and they take money from garbage shipments, and they take money from what the mayor of Győr is very nice, and I recommend everyone in this Facebook video to show them that they have to go there, in a town in West Hungary, and they have to poke the twigs out of the eaves. I would just like to note in parentheses that this was done in front of a trust building that he appointed the entire management and supervisory board of the trustee, but the Győr people will deal with this internal contradiction. The whole thing is, therefore, that cities with opposition mayors have been punished and favored where there are Fidesz people. This is not only because it is unfair, but also because they lied, because the Prime Minister said after the municipal elections that he would cooperate with all city leaders, regardless of party color, and then they played this snow-fun pseudoconsultation, which everyone knew at the beginning what would end: the Fidesz people were given, and the non-fidesz ones were not. That's all I wanted to say about municipal compensation, and now another subject and I'm glad that Mr Secretary of State is here, I hope this is some beautiful coincidence that this has turned out this way. The fact is that a single HUF 500,000 wage supplement for the social sector would be HUF 42 billion. As far as I know, the EMMI doesn't argue with that calculation either. Well, now I'm really trying to say something with an elevated tone, and I'd like to tell Mr. Secretary of State that this 42 billion forints would probably fit into the budget. Now, you don't want me to do the comparative, measuring thing, but I might do it. So, for example, the World Hunting Exhibition is at 72 billion, and they're both a one-time payment. So I do not think that this one-off HUF 500,000 wage supplement in the social sector actually burdened the budget. It would simply be a lie to say so. Besides, there's another reason why they didn't give it to me, I can't really tell you. To tell us how much wages have increased in nominal terms compared to 2010, it is a very good thing, it is very good, but the fact is that these people still did extra work, with an infection risk, 4 percent of them received a 100% pension, and they deserved to receive a one-time payment of HUF 500,000. By the way, the worst-paid state employees are social workers, and the wages they get aren't enough to make this sector work. But you already know this, because if I know it, but I may not know it, then this may also happen; if I am aware of it, the SZGYF, then SZGYF, made an appeal to the EMMI to provide this one-time payment of HUF 500,000. So on the inside, the maintainer knows exactly what's going on. On the other hand, while we are talking about the social sector: although there has been a wage increase recently, most wage increases are in bonuses, which are not included in the basic wage. This is also a serious problem. In the first place, the real serious problem is why there is a separate social pay table. The fact that the pay table is so cut up, and the wages of the public sector workers are an inaccessible, unpredictable and basically paid-out, one-off decision-making thing, that's bad for everyone. There is one political reason why they can negotiate separately with the sectors and not have to negotiate with the entire public sector, but it doesn't make sense. By the way, in many regional countries, there are no payrolls so torn apart, it is not even a socialist heritage, it is partly invented by the Horn government and partly by later governments. So this is one of them. Secondly, this budget could have included a wage increase in the social sector, and this is a wage increase that has been waiting for you for years and years. I understand that you can give me numbers, which are actually the mandatory wage increase from the guaranteed minimum wage, right, in the pay table, but beyond that, there weren't very much wage increases in the social sector. But I would like to ask you one more question, because I have heard that during today's session there have been several talks about the home care fee. It is very nice that in 2022, and it is really a good thing, it will reach the minimum wage for children's care. But the reason I don't know why you think that's okay is because there's probably some ideological reason for this, because there's no practical reason why the home care fee for non-children at home is still not going to reach 60,000 forints. So I don't know what makes you think it's a good decision. The fact is, because someone doesn't take care of his child at home, he does the same work as taking care of his child at home. Katalin Novak was once close to illuminating this ideological difference, why they didn't raise their non-child at home care centers, and there I try to quote something well that while a child who is not self-sufficient is an unexpected thing that happens in a family, the fact that one's parents, mother-in-law and father-in-law will not be fully self-sufficient in their old age is the end of natural life. I understand that, and everyone is obviously counting on the need for help in their old age, but it is partly between about two and three years into an elderly home. So in the meantime, what do you do with your parents, your mother-in-law, your father-in-law? In part, these people paid for 30-40 years of social security. So it's not that they get free money from the state, it's that they put their own contribution into the risk community. So all in all, I could say that raising their non-child to the minimum wage for caregivers would also be no more than HUF 30 billion. This should have been included in this budget, and I am very sorry that it did not fit, and for these reasons I can say that I will not support this year's budget. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-20-84	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, representative of Fidesz, may speak now. Here you go. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi manages her microphone.]] I would kindly ask you to help the congresswoman, or if the microphone doesn't work properly, give her a hand microphone.
u2021-05-20-85	[[For portable microphones:]] Thank you very much. Sorry about the little technical transition. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of next year's budget, I would like to talk about the situation of pensioners, how pensions and pension-like benefits will develop, and in the next section, the figures that can be shown in the budget for our child and youth policy, and part of it, because I could give a long list of the results that will appear in the 2022 budget. I think that the realistic thing is to talk about next year's budget, how much more will be given, so that the resources are increasing, and I think it took a strong enough magnifier to talk about next year's budget, my opposition colleague, about how the government took the funds from somewhere. So pensions: old people in the family deserve special respect, because they worked for the country, for the nation for decades and raised generations, whether they were parents or grandparents. The Fidesz-KDNP fraction and the government announced the restoration of the 13th month pension in 2009 in the framework of their family and pension protection programme last year, at four paces. That's what we've been talking about here in Parliament, and now, in the light of next year's budget, let me quote the numbers. The amount of the allowance in the first year of payment, i.e. in 2021, is 25 per cent of the amount of the retirement pension in January, in 22 per cent, in 50 per cent, in 23 per cent. From 24 onwards, pensioners and pension beneficiaries will receive the full amount of the 13th month pension. Let's see what that means at the level of the budget. In 2022, the budget plans to spend HUF 160.3 billion to cover the 13th month supply. [[17.10]] In 2022, the budget plans to spend HUF 160.3 billion to cover the 13th month supply. In 2022, in addition to the 13th month's benefit, the institution of the pension premium will continue to benefit older people from the results of economic growth. However, I feel this is a very significant achievement, because it has not been before, in previous years, an example of how we could have given pensions to pensioners, so this will go beyond the pension increase and the retirement of the 13th month pension. The government expects an increase in GDP of 5.2 per cent in 2022, and accordingly placed HUF 68,5 billion in a provision for the payment of the pension premium. Women's role in the family is also a priority in their old age. Women who spend most of their lives working and raising children can use retirement benefits for 40 years before the retirement age is reached. In 2022, the central budget provides HUF 332 billion for this purpose. We are talking about the,, Women's 40, which we were able to introduce after 2010, if I remember correctly, as of January 2011. Here, with this measure, we wanted to change the law so that he could retire with 40 years of service, that he could get a full pension, and in this 40 years of service, we included the years he spent at home before raising children, that is, the child, and later the child. In 2010, we undertook to protect the purchasing value of pensions, the real value of pensions. This has been achieved, and more has been achieved. Taking into account the 3 percent increase in pensions foreseen in the 2022 budget, pensions for 2011-22 will increase by 48.1 percent and their purchasing power will improve by more than 10 percent due to persistent low inflation. It's a very important number. Here, one of my opposition fellow Members tried to say as a criticism that the percentages were flying, obviously he understood this in nominal terms, and now we have said a sum in real terms. So in real terms, pensions have improved by 10 percent. The Prime Minister announced it during the first wave of the coronal virus epidemic and decided to reinstate the 13th month's pension in 2009 from 2021. The decision was made because the current government is treating the crisis in a different way than in the previous financial crisis in 2008. Then it was a different government, so let's not forget that during the 2008 crisis. At the moment, the aim is for the economy to return to growth as soon as possible and for the elderly and those in need of benefits to feel safe and existentially safe. The measure concerns more than two and a half million beneficiaries of pensions and benefits to be raised in the same way as pensions. The 13th month pension will be paid to those receiving the next benefit, with a total of 2 million 162 thousand people. This is worth listing, as it concerns not only pensioners, full pensioners, but also the following: the old-age pension, including women retired with 40, affects more than 2 million persons in total; widow's pensioners are also affected by 59 000 persons; parental pensions are also affected by 19 thousand persons; orphanage, accident benefit, agricultural cooperative, old-age, incapacity, widow's allowance, and an increase in the number of old-age, incapacity and widow's benefits is also affected by the retirement of the 13th month pension. In the same way as the 13th month's pension, 13th month's benefits are granted to those receiving other cash benefits, nearly 400 thousand persons, whose introduction was arranged by the government in a regulation. It is also worth listing here who they are. These benefits are: pre-age benefits, service allowances, temporary mining allowances, annuities to dance, invalidity benefits, rehabilitation benefits, accident annuities, injury benefits to miners, disability benefits, personal benefits for the blind, invalidity benefits, benefits paid under the Government Decree on benefits paid by the Hungarian Foundation of Artists, mayors' public service benefits, supplementary support for orphans under the Law on the Status of Patriots and the Law on the Status of Defence Staff, supplementary invalidity allowance under the Law on the Status of Patriots, supplementary family support under the Law on the Law on the Status of Patriots and the Law on the Service of Professional Staff of the Bodies serving under the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Status of Defence, and supplementary family support under the Law on Social Insurance Pensions of 1997 LXXXI. regular cash benefits provided for in law, an increase in the context of measures restricting certain personal leave or a conviction declared null and void, an allowance for a national post, an allowance for a spouse's allowance and an allowance for a spouse's income. I hope, Mr Secretary, I have managed to list everything, because these people are also waiting for their pensions to be raised and for the 13th month's pension to be reinstated. Overall, with what I started, we had an agreement with the pensioners in 2010, and we had a commitment. As long as Hungary has a national government, the purchasing value of their pension should not decrease, but rather increase and strengthen. As compared to 2010, once again, taking into account the January 2021 increase, they increased by 43,8 percent and their purchasing power increased by 10 percent. The public burdens of retired workers are more favourable than ever before. If the self-employed pensioner does work in any legal relationship, from 1 July 2020, so since last summer his income from work has been charged only 15% of personal income tax, he does not have to pay any individual contributions. I believe that towards the pensioners that we have undertaken, we have not only succeeded in achieving the fullest, but in achieving even more. The main reason for this is that Hungary has also done better, so thank you for the people working or working in the family, because their work has enabled the economy to grow and grow, and this is the reason why we can help our elderly countrymen with the pension premium and with the restoration of the 13th month pension. Allow me to speak in the second part of my speech on youth, youth and child policy, and let me give you a few very important examples of where the next year's budget will prioritise them. In 2010, if we look back, only HUF 824 million was planned by the then socialist government for child and youth professional tasks. In next year's budget 2022, the government plans to spend more than HUF 9.18 billion on child, youth and family policy programmes from the Prime Minister's budget chapter alone. In addition, many education, culture, sport and European Union programmes help young people to thrive. Let's look at a couple of child and youth professional tasks. There are career development objectives within the appropriations for children, youth and family policy programmes. For child and youth professional development purposes, the draft budget for 2022 envisages HUF 331.9 million. [[17.20]] This appropriation is intended to cover, for example, the operation of three telephone first-aid services. This is the Association of Hungarian Spiritual First Aid Telephone Services, the Mental Hygiene Association for Youth and the Blue Line Children's Crisis Foundation. I feel this activity is very important, and it is a good thing that this is included in the budget on a separate basis. There was also support for the 2021 operation, yes. Erzsébet Youth Fund Nonprofit Közhasznú Kft. I would like to highlight its support in the following areas. This year's budget provides a total of HUF 300 million for the operation of the successors of the New Generation Centre within the appropriations for children, youth and family policies. The 2022 budget envisages 150 million HUF for the Erzsébet Youth Fund within the programme appropriations, given that the National Talent Centre Nonprofit Kft. has been appointed from the company in 2019. So there won't be any less money, but it will replace one of the kfts. There was a change of name in respect of the remaining company. So if you're looking for resources, you'll have to search here and find them. We feel it is very important to support the first successful language exam for young people. In 2019 the government provided 2.78 billion for the reimbursement of the fees for successful language exams and advanced foreign language graduation exams. In 2020 and 21, this amount was almost HUF 2 billion a year. In next year's budget, we plan to continue to secure this resource, which is nearly HUF 2 billion, given the wider use of the support. The terms and conditions of the discount are laid down in the first successful language exam and in the Government Decree on support for the first advanced foreign language graduation exam fee, where young people can precisely look into what they are entitled to and what they are entitled to. It is well known that language skills in Hungary do not reach the desired level. It is therefore necessary for the State to develop the necessary access to it to the greatest extent possible. There's a consensus on that. For this purpose, as from 1 January 2018, the first successful language examination of young people under the age of 35 will be awarded by the State. The grant may be equal to the fee of the test, but it is a maximum of 25 per cent of the minimum wage, which is currently HUF 41 850. It is important to point out that from 1 July 2020 the benefit was extended to those receiving childcare, childcare or childcare. In the case of this extension, there is no age limit, so entitlement to the allowance is also applicable to mothers, fathers and grandparents who stay at home because of the education of their children or grandchildren, who receive an infant care fee or a childcare fee or childcare allowance. The third issue I would like to highlight is the contribution to obtaining young people's driving licences. In 2019 the government provided HUF 1.67 billion for this purpose, and in 2020-21 we provided more than HUF 1.1 billion a year. We plan to provide this HUF 1.14 billion resource next year as well, given the fact that I would like to use this funding more widely, so it is popular. Many young people face a serious challenge in funding the acquisition of a license. As a high school student, as a junior university student, they may not have the income they could bear for these costs. However, intra-country mobility would be vital for the labour market, especially in disadvantaged regions. Therefore, the government decided that after 1 July 2018 the basic transport skills required to obtain the B-category driving licence, the KRESZ exam and the related e-learning or classroom course should be reimbursed in whole or in part to the young person who had not yet reached the age of 20 on the day of examination of the successful basic transport skills. Similarly, in order to support the award of the first successful exams from foreign languages, the discount was extended in this case to the group of recipients of the baby care fee, childcare fee or childcare allowance from 1 July 2020, i.e. from last summer. Also, there is no age limit for extension. Thus, entitlement to the allowance also applies to mothers, fathers, and grandparents staying at home because of their child or grandson's education, who are receiving basic transport knowledge on the day of the exam. Last thing I want to say about a very important measure, a legislative amendment: this is the amendment that goes by the name. This is a new benefit, from January 2022 up to the average gross national income for young people under 25 years of age, in respect of the items listed in the consolidated tax base, but not later than the month of July of the year preceding the reference year, for full-time employees. It was an official professional text, a few sentences found in the budget law. In English, it is about that if young people under the age of 25 work, they are exempt from paying 25 per cent sja tax. In addition, it is worth mentioning that the discount is an average of HUF 40 400 per month, and if this is calculated for a year, it will result in an additional income of some HUF 485,000 per person for young people under the age of 25, so that much more is left in their pockets every year, so there is less tax to be paid. Ladies and gentlemen, At virtually every point of the next year's budget, we can talk about how the source is growing, how we increase the funding for various social groups, and an important chapter in the next year's budget is how to restart, how to support the economy, because Hungary is building a work-based society, the more people work, the higher their earnings, the better results the country and the people living here can achieve. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-20-86	Thank you very much. The representative of Jobbik, Mr György Szilágyi, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2021-05-20-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The reason we are in a difficult situation in budgetary debates is because we are planning something, and unforeseen events and things can happen that are completely going through this. That was the case a year ago, when we were discussing this year's budget, we didn't know that the epidemic was coming, and we didn't know that you were going to use this epidemic as a crisis management so that, for example, you would be able to disable governments that you didn't like, or we didn't know in advance, that you would receive a great deal of extra money from the European Union for epidemic and crisis management, which you would not be spending on crisis management, but on filling the pockets of your own friends, relatives and friends. The only thing we can predict at the time of the discussion of budget 22 is that your planning is not adapted to the current situation. It's an election campaign budget. [[17 .30]] This is what you were preparing for, and at the time of the epidemic, when the real estate prices broke loose, food prices got out of hand when inflation was huge, jobs were lost, hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families are in a very difficult situation, and we believe that a budget should reflect this situation and that it should be about how they can help people in such a difficult situation, how they can improve their lives, how we can provide them with well-being and a good life. We don't help them with propaganda, giant posters, manipulated statistics. So we can talk about 5.2 percent economic growth here, 5.9 percent budget deficit or 3 percent inflation, if they are not in a thank-you situation, because if they go shopping, they can see exactly where inflation is at the moment, for example, and how much the prices of basic food have increased, even for meat, in the past period. But, I mean, it's been accepted by you in general, because it's enough to refer only to Gabriella Selmeczi, who spoke in front of me, and who has long classified how seriously you take pensioners, he's spoken in percentages about certain things that you're helping pensioners with. Now, what do these percentages mean in real life? Well, in reality, they mean that you raised pensions by an average of HUF 890 per month between January and May. What does that mean? It means that the pensioners have been given less than HUF 30 per day in recent years. Well, don't tell me, that's a nice respect for the pensioners for 30 forints a day. You should see reality instead of statistics, and the reality is that you have raised pensions on average by HUF 890/month. But besides helping people with a budget like this, if they get into a difficult situation, it would also be important to make improvements that make their lives better. In recent years, during the budgetary negotiations, I have tabled a series of amendments, as Rákosmente and Kőbánya-Kertváros have been undeserved from the development in recent years. It was not up to us, because, as I say, I have tabled a series of amendments, which, unfortunately, you, Fidesz, and, unfortunately, the district, the Fidesz Parliamentary Representative of Rákosmente, voted down. But I'm going to try again, and I'm going to ask you to consider that people in Rákosmen would also like to live better, and that if they could benefit from the money, the development money that might be available, they could benefit from the district. In my opinion, it is not feasible that Article XXI should be amended accordingly. In the first century there are still streets in a metropolitan city, European capital, Budapest, where there are no asphalt and where sewerage may even be a problem. That is why I would like my amendments to be taken into account, considered and adopted. Rákoscsaba is part of Rákosmente, the easternmost part of Budapest; the 13 thousand people who live here would be entitled to the XXI. It's a hundredth-century circumstance. In many streets of the district, there is no asphalt covering, which worsens the condition of cars and keeps the value of real estate low. As Rákoscsaba is part of the capital, it is difficult to win an EU tender for infrastructure development. This HUF 300 million, which is in my amendment proposal, provides a good basis for the development of the road network in Craboscsaba. It is necessary to put an end to the period of puddles after the rains. More than 90 years old, I think he deserves more. As I think it deserves more, Rákoskert, where there are similar problems, because there are terrible roads in the extremes of Rákoskert. People living in small streets also deserve normal traffic conditions, as they live in Budapest, in the middle of Europe. During the rains, the water spilling from the hillside makes it difficult to transport, the scattered roads are washed out by the rainwater, so the final solution to the problem would be road asphalting. Because of government withdrawals, neither the district nor the capital has a source for this, so this amount would be a good starting point for the development of the district's roads. The situation is similar in Rákoskeresztúr, as the roads of Rákoskeresztúr have been largely renovated over the past 15 years. The renovations have stopped in the last few years, and there has been deterioration. Smaller and access roads in the part of the city require renovation and detachment. The HUF 300 million I propose in this amendment proposal is a good opportunity to correct minor road failures and to launch the planning and construction phase of major road sections. But unfortunately, Rákosmente, as the largest district of Budapest, is not in good condition, so we need road development, maintenance and canal modernisation in Rákoshegy as well. Rákoshegy is the most neglected district in Rákosment for road renovations. Not only the small side streets, but also the connecting streets leading to the main roads are in a terrible state. In 2021 there are no paved streets everywhere. In 2020, the district's management promised to pave the streets of Crab Hill, but the government withdrawal due to the coronal virus epidemic made it impossible. This amount would be sufficient to pave the connecting streets of Rákoshegy. The people who live there also deserve, in my opinion, mud- and pothole-free roads in the 21st century. In the century. As I say and mention, Rákosmente is a very large district, the largest district of Budapest. It is a family-married area, but there are also very large residential areas. Apartments are in no better condition than the family-married area, as the parking lot in Crab Cross is neglected and in bad condition, and in some places traffic has become dangerous. In order to protect the residents, road sections that have been neglected for years are urgently needed. I believe that this HUF 250 million, which I propose in my amendment proposal, could at least help in some way to avoid this unblessed state. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: The district has 728 apartments and other housing properties. Some of these apartments have terrible housing conditions. Deteriorated municipal housing affects the entire residential environment. I submitted an amendment last year, but it was still voted off. Moreover, the municipality of Rákosmente could not produce the part of a successfully won European Union housing renovation application. By 2022, this 700 million HUF, which I propose now, will provide a good basis for the participation of potential applications or the start of own investments. It should be created for all local government apartments resident for cancer mints in the XXI. Living conditions and well-being of the century in the middle of Europe, especially because, as I said, the living environment is affected by the inadequate condition of these apartments. The development of education and the development of educational institutions is also important in cancer. I believe that in 2021 it is important to make the most effective use of environmentally friendly lifestyles and existing resources. This also requires investments in energy efficiency in the education and training institutions of the district. As Rákosmente belongs to the European Union Development Region in Central Hungary, it would be almost impossible to finance these developments from the EU Cohesion Fund. It would take years for the district to raise the necessary amount for development, as a result of government withdrawal. Regardless of political affiliation, all cancer politicians should have the common goal of providing the best possible service for the generations growing up here from the country, the district, and the most optimal cost of development. Therefore, I think that energy modernisation and the installation of solar panels could greatly help this situation. Then, to talk about concrete institutions: the internal renovation and expansion of the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor Primary School and High School, I think it would be timely, since the XVII. The population of the district is constantly increasing, and this is an increasing burden on district institutions as well. [[17.40]] The Kőrösi Csoma Sándor Primary School and High School once boasted one of the best elementary schools in the country. The insulation of the main building of the institution took place five years ago, but the interior renovation was cancelled. The walls are covered with paint, the bathrooms show Balkan conditions, the ceiling of the hallways is in many places incomplete, the state of the physical education lockers is deplorable. I think that the amount I'm proposing here is important. In total, about a thousand students study in three buildings and in a temporary container. For years there have been plans to expand the main building with an extra floor, but this development has always been pushed aside because of a lack of resources. I think that the government could be of great help, and that Fidesz and Fidesz may be a Member of the Parliament for Cancer if they voted in favour of this amendment. Then there could be park renovations and park development in the district, as this would also be important for the residents. The Almos street forest in Kőbánya is currently only an uncared area, it is not a recreational area for residents, the development of a playground and a leisure park would improve the living conditions of those living here. I think that the 70 million forints I proposed to make this investment are not the amount that would not be worth it. There were developments, by the way, since the town centre and the main square of Rákoskeresztúr were renovated. The problem is that this renovation has resulted in a completely dissipated area where there is a fountain, everything, there is no shadow, because they forgot to take care of it. So in the greatest heat, when cancer people can use the main square to relax, talk, or sit on the bench, they have to do it in the hot sun at 40 degrees. That is why I think that solar sailing could be a solution in this area, and if we were talking about energy saving and renewable energy, it might also be helpful to install solar lamps. I would also ask that my amendment to this be adopted. I think that environmental protection is very important for all of us. Merzse swamp is the only natural swamp in Budapest. Maintaining the water content of the swamp is a priority. The existence and survival of the animal and plant population living here is important not only for Budapest, but also for the whole country, but it is extremely important to solve the continuous water supply of the swamp so that it does not dry out anymore. I'm asking you to help me save my life. But my time is getting better, so I would like to draw your attention to two very important things and two very important amendments. One is that transport is the biggest problem for people living in Rákosmenten. It is not good to have to stand hours in the traffic, either during the morning peak or during the evening peak period, since this is a characteristic of Rákosmenta. Crab mint, but perhaps one of Budapest's most charged roads is Pesti út. The Pesti road load is increasing due to the continuous increase in population, there is only one alternative to reducing the load if we build new main roads. This is what the two-track expansion of Vidor Street would do, linking the Cinkotai Road and the Crossroads. The crossroads overpass has undergone minor repairs in recent years, but it would require complete renovation. The investment also includes an overpass over the Rákos stream, which protects the creek shore environment. The investment could lead to the total turnover of Rákosliget being removed from Pesti Road, thus reducing the load on Pesti Road. I think this would be a very important task. I would like to ask you to support this amendment. I told you, Rákosmente is a very large area, but otherwise it's growing, and then there are 90 thousand people living in this part of town, which means that there are more people living here than, say, in Sopron, Szombathely or Tatabánya. I also think that it is important to pay attention to quality recreation. There were three beaches with cancer, not one for today. The Rákoscsaba Mária beach spa in Rákoscsaba and Rákoscsaba-Újtelep in their native inhabitants bring back beautiful memories. There were two beaches in Rákoscsaba, but none of them have been in operation for decades, to the grief of the inhabitants of the district. The area of the Mária Beach Bath is still suitable for its original purpose. He's got excellent traffic, excellent skills. I think he deserves a beach bath in Rakosmente. This would require nothing but will, and support from you to support the renovation of this beach bath, which is still government-owned at the moment, so that the crab men can spend quality leisure time in a suitable beach bath. I believe that these amendments, which I have tabled to you, are eligible. If it were important for you to use development resources for the benefit of the people, you would support these amendments. In particular, I call on the Fidesz Members of Parliament of Rákosmente to vote in favour of these amendments and to make sure that people in Rákosmente can live in prosperity and freedom. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-20-88	Thank you very much. The representative of Fidesz, the notary of the Parliament, Mr Attila Gelencsér, is next. Here you go.
u2021-05-20-89	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Thank you very much for the floor. Several sectors, both national and strategically important, are involved in what I have asked for, and this is also a specific project, which is very important for my constituency. I could say that two counties, two districts and two cities are extremely important. Tourism, health protection, health preservation, prevention and sport are of particular importance in Hungary from a national strategy point of view. This project I'd like to talk about for a little while, maybe it contains all of them. The first thing that's important to everyone who thinks about Somogy, Kaposvár is that around here they say it's not the forest in Somogy, it's Somogy in the woods. The area around Kaposvár is a landscape protection area called Zselic, which is practically a miracle of nature, it could be said that it is the living world itself, with a storehouse of values to be discovered and preserved. We are talking about an area of 9,000 hectares, of which 140 hectares are strictly protected. The Blue Tour route of Pál Rockenbauer goes through here, and we didn't know it ourselves when the forest economy started a project called Starpark that we were talking about one of the least glazed areas in the world, so it was also suitable for the construction of the planetarium in the area. Here you can find Ropoly for the picnic players, here you can find the wild food enthusiasts Kardosfa, for lovers of deer or game, the Bőszérfai Deer Farm, or the Zselic Farm, the leisure park in Hajmas. And you can't leave Kaposvár out of the list, with the Art Nouveau, his classicistic style built downtown, Deseda, the Flower Bath, his festivals. Kaposvár is a welcoming city, both in its surroundings, Zselic is a welcoming place. That is why tourism has become a strategic sector in our country and in our place recently. At the same time, as everywhere in the world, it means livelihoods, jobs, increased income-generating capacity, investments, and there are, for example, other destinations that locals can enjoy. In fact, it's safe to say that Zselic is a recreational zone for the Kaposvár people and those who arrive there. In 2019 we were able to talk about 150,000 guest nights in Kaposvár and Zselic in total. This region was characterised by an ever-increasing demand and an ever-increasing supply. [[17.50]] The local tourist destination management in Kaposvár and Zselic is also doing its job, the Tourinform office is doing nearly a hundred thousand traffic per year, but the pandemic has obviously affected our area, so the number of 2020 is missing, but it is likely to show a major decline. And the project that I would like to talk about, and I have just arrived at the project specifically, fits perfectly with the government's policy of not helping on a social basis in this crisis, but on an investment basis, and is trying to prevent me from quoting many members of the government. We are talking about the Kaposvár-Szigetvár bike route in particular, which is actually, I might say, a decided case, we announced it on the spot, there is a government decision about it, the National Infrastructure Developer Zrt. It also plans, but it is clear that its implementation, its financing and its settlement will be postponed to 2022, and that is why, here and now, in the debate on the budget of 22 I have the opportunity to ask for the support of my fellow Members, to vote in favour of the budget, because whoever supports this budget also supports this project. About the history, very briefly. Actually, I'd be happy to say that this excellent idea is mine, but no, it was invented by the people there. Several mayors raised this question earlier and examined the fact that a long-lost railway line, where the superstructures were otherwise dismantled, is the railway charge, as we call it, which is a kind of basis for this potentially built bicycle route, would be suitable for rounding Kaposvár and Szigetvár along a bicycle road. Improving the conditions of the attraction area of the endpoints, improving the tourism services of Inner Somogy and West Baranya, this bicycle route would mean a lot of things, and it is important to know that the artifacts of this railway charge are still intact to this day, even though the railway was demolished decades ago, so bridges and crossings are available. So what I can tell you is that the railway charging, which is also visible on the Google map, would provide a cost-effective construction for the state, and it may not even be possible to build a bicycle road that cheaply. So the end of a word is a hundred, my fellow Members, we would perhaps like to make Kaposvár and its surroundings the leading destination of the tourist axis between Lake Balaton and Dráva, and if we do our job well enough, we will achieve nothing less than cycling along the built R67 road from Kaposvár to Szigetvár on this route, and, if I understand correctly, there are very serious plans for connecting Szigetvár and Pécs in Baranya. In other words, this section, which is not a short section, would mean that we could get from Lake Balaton to Pécs on a bicycle. At the end of my speech, I would like to emphasise that this is not an amendment; it is only an extremely important project, and the resources required for it are available in the budget if this is supported by the House; as I spoke here, perhaps six months ago, about a bathroom hospital, and not so long ago, I also spoke about an industrial park in Kaposvár, all of which are being sharpened by the adoption of the budget. Ladies and Gentlemen, We had three ministers in Kaposvár during socialist governance, if I remember correctly, at the same time, but beyond career building, there were no benefits for these Kaposvárs, no help, no support for projects of this size and scale, such as the Bathroom, the Industrial Park or the bicycle route we have just mentioned, certainly not. Well, never a better time. I would also like to ask the local left-wing opposition in Kaposvár to put pressure on their parliamentary parties to make up for previous mistakes, and I do not know that the Kaposvárs will forgive for it, and I would also welcome the opposition votes to vote in favour of the budget, because if they vote, they will also support these three huge projects, which are very important for the people there. All in all, I will therefore support the budget for many of the reasons that have been said here, especially because of these three projects. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-20-90	Thank you very much. The representative of the MSZP, the notary of the Parliament, Mr Sándor Szabó, may now speak. Here.
u2021-05-20-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear House, My budget speech was divided into four parts. First of all, I would like to say a few words about the budget in general; then I would mention the numbers of welfare and social benefits in the draft budget for next year; thirdly, not surprisingly, after working and practicing ten years in the local government, I would also like to talk about the situation of municipalities, regardless of whether I know today that many of my fellow Members here in the opposition benches have spoken about the situation of municipalities, but it is okay, the mother of knowledge, and I trust that if we say the same or the same thing many times, then, I trust, we may also find open ears from the government. After all, I would like to talk about my proposals for amending the budget with regard to the municipalities, as well as the proposals for amending the budget for my constituency and for my regnating county. In general, the draft budget for next year, as the government says, is the budget for re-launching, the way the government wants the country to be restarted, the path to indebtedness, which we do not think is a good direction. If we look at the amount of government debt, it was HUF 30,000 billion in the months preceding the epidemic, and this level could reach the level of nearly HUF 45 000 billion by the end of next year, it is very easy to calculate that there is a HUF 15 000 billion gap between the two numbers, which the government is likely to put into the budget as a loan, and this means spending it in a few years. Of course, credit is not from the devil himself, but rather the question of what the government is getting it for, because if it spends it on a place where it is needed, and it pays off, then I think that it is a good direction, if not, as otherwise in the budget, in next year's budget, it is a wrong direction. Economic growth is determined by the government at 5.2 percent next year, which, I think, is not an insurmountable standard, especially if we are thinking of spending thousands of billions of forints from the loan, or we are considering this year as a base year, 2021. However, it is clear that the government will also have to take account of the risks, the risks that may be associated with the possible further waves of the coronal virus epidemic, or the way the world economy is developing, or the availability or usability of EU funds will enable the government or the country to do so. For Hungary, I think that inflation is a particular threat, which is increasing. We can say that the rate of financial deterioration has not been seen for eight years, reaching 5.1 percent in 2021, but economic experts and analysts believe that this figure may rise further, it seems odd that the government will expect inflation of 3 percent in the next year's budget. The extent of inflation is important, unfortunately, because although there is a small minimum wage increase or a pension increase, the consumer price increase resulting from inflation, which in terms of basic food, in order to highlight only this item, between 10 and 20 percent, in fact, the salary increase and the rate of pension increase are completely lost, and the two numbers are even very far apart. [[18.00]] Turning to welfare and social expenditure, it can be said that, while welfare expenditure is subject to a minimum increase in GDP, this is mainly due to increased expenditure on health and increased expenditure on housing. At the same time, if the social area needs to be looked at, there is a huge improvement in terms of proportion and in terms of previous years, but rather no improvement in any way. In fact, in the case of unemployment benefits, if you look at the figures nominally, there is even a certain reduction. We can say that the proportion of expenditure spent on welfare purposes in all expenditures will seem to be decreasing year after year. For example, for the poorest people, the amount of public health care has not changed in 16 years. But if we look at how much more, for example, children in need will get in the next year's budget, then we can see that there will be no more than twice a year's benefits for children in need than a holiday meal. If you look at family allowances, which are obviously very important elements of the budget and are very important for Hungarian families, the amount of family allowances, children, children or maternity allowances, you can say that these amounts have not changed for decades. In fact, if you look at the baby bond, it will be 14 years unchanged, as will the pension minimum, although the government prefers to say in the explanatory statement that encouraging childbearing is very important to him during and after the coronal virus epidemic. While there is a significant increase in expenditure on housing support, this does not actually provide very much for families in need, who are unable to meet the conditions for aid for those who are already better off. Turning to the situation of the municipalities, it can be said that the proposal on next year's budget will further strengthen the direction of government action against the municipalities that has already been taken, i.e. the previous withdrawal of municipal resources will unfortunately remain in the next year's budget, i.e. there will be no less. We can only trust or hope that the size of this, i.e. the size of the withdrawals, will not be greater than in the next year's budget or in the subsequent period. If we look at the budget figures and look at the draft budget, then we can see that local governments can expect roughly the same amount of money for the next year's budget as this year. In fact, the amount of operating aid is rising to a minimum, which is mainly due to an increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. In many respects, as I said, the chapter of the budget concerning municipalities is characterised by the repetition of last year's figures. There are many lines of public tasks in which, despite high inflation and the decline in the exchange rate of the forint, there is the same amount as last year's figures, and even in the previous years. This is a major problem for municipalities and municipalities because, thanks to the epidemic situation, we both know that they had to suffer enormous government withdrawal and that the municipalities also suffered a significant reduction in their revenues as a result of their services. In other words, the settlements, the municipalities, have been in a situation where, in many cases, it is difficult for them to carry out the basic tasks entrusted to them, which, I think, would have been justified, at least the following year, if we were talking about the budget for the re-launch, to provide the municipalities with much higher resources than this year. (The presidency of Dr. Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Overall, therefore, this budget will not solve the problems faced by the municipalities last year, but it can be said that since 2019. And what are we talking about? My fellow Members have already spoken about it. For example, there is the solidarity contribution. This amount was still 43 billion in 2019; it is now nearly three times the amount of the next year's budget, then HUF 130 billion. We've talked a lot about the car tax. This budget is now scheduled as HUF 90 billion next year. We know very well that a significant part of this has already been taken by the government in 13 years, 40 percent of this remains in the settlements, this has also been taken away last year, it has been withdrawn from the settlements, and it will not be recovered from the municipalities in the following year. It was a huge cut in the blood, and we talked about it, the business tax discount for small and medium-sized enterprises, it was nearly HUF 150 billion. There has been some correction and compensation: in the case of settlements of less than 25,000 people, this is a 50 billion-dollar movement, but for example in the case of metropolitan cities with a population of more than 25,000 people, this means not only cities with county rights, but we are talking about more cities, 64 cities, in a completely hectic way, not knowing by what intentions and principles, only 32 cities were compensated for 23.6 billion forints, and for example Budapest has not received a penny. We also talked about free parking. We can finally welcome the government's decision to admit that this has nothing to do with the epidemiological situation, but that it has a significant impact on the municipalities. Depending on the size and location of the settlement, the settlements were deprived of revenue between HUF 10 and 100 million. We have talked about this a lot in Parliament before. For example, there is 2 billion forints available for local public transport in rural cities. I am sure that Mr Secretary of State knows that this is not significant, so it cannot be said as a budget line, but it will not be given to the municipalities. It was already taken in 2021 and will not be received by the municipalities in 2022. Although there are 60 cities with good county rights, there are also twenty-one other settlements that have benefited from this source, and it has certainly been very important to provide public transport services. If we look at these sixty settlements and those who have used public transport by the way, we are talking about nearly a million people. I think that this HUF 2 billion could not have been an item that would not have been included in the budget, for example, if we had looked at it, compared to another item of similar size, that, for example, Groupama Arena would be renovated from HUF 3 billion, which was not so long ago, and I don't really know why so much should be spent on it. If I look at my direct constituency, the center of which is Szeged, I have up-to-date information about these withdrawals. The government withdrawal is close to 10 billion, and since the outbreak, the municipality has lost an additional HUF 7 billion in revenue. I don't want to give you any details, but I'd like to highlight a few of them. The loss of revenues from the local business tax was HUF 5 billion, together with the take-off of it; the take-off of motor vehicle tax was HUF 500 million, HUF 1 billion; the solidarity contribution was HUF 1.8 billion; the free parking was HUF 100 million per month, we reached 1 billion per month; the public transport I was just talking about meant 328 million per year, this was over 660 million per year; the tourist tax was 360 million. And I could list the items that add up the HUF 10 plus HUF 7 billion, which is a huge number in the city budget of Szeged. To sum up, therefore, there is no surplus in the central budget for next year compared to 2021, there is an internal reorganization visible in 2022. The government's objective is clear, and only that the municipalities should be able to carry out the tasks entrusted to them, their basic tasks, in a way that they can carry them out, otherwise they should not have more room for manoeuvre in the coming years. However, it should be pointed out that the measures that have been imposed on the local governments and the government withdrawals that have been implemented are largely implemented by solutions that are indirectly, but still impacting, on Hungarian households. Crisis management cannot be successful if the municipalities are not treated as partners by the government and are subject to such withdrawal. [[18.10]] The citizens in distress will, of course, be the first physically knocking on the doors of the municipalities, looking for them, and there they will try to remedy their own harm in some way. That is why governments support local governments in many other countries of Europe, but even in many countries of the world, because they know precisely that this is necessary. Unfortunately, Hungary's Government is in this case, as in many other cases, on the side of the dwarf minority who oppose this worldwide trend. On the subject of my amendments, I would like to mention them in two blocks. The first block includes my amendments to the local government sector outside my constituency, which, by the way, I have been submitting in Parliament for years, but unfortunately, the Fidesz majority has voted against for years. One applies to the car tax. In order to ensure that the government does not grant ad hoc subsidies to the municipalities, what happened at the end of last year did not happen, so that they would receive 1.4 billion forints primarily of government-led settlements, they would have to treat the municipalities as equal partners, so that they could manage and develop in a predictable and predictable way. To this end, a fair and reasonable rethink of the allocation of resources between the government and the municipalities is necessary. I think that, with regard to the car tax, we should return to the pre-2013 trend, i.e. car tax revenue should be applied to local governments by allowing local authorities to use this resource for road renovation and development. You know very well that not only public roads, but also municipal roads are in a catastrophic state. I'm sure the settlements would be able to distribute this resource correctly. The other item, which I have also mentioned, is HUF 2 billion in support of rural community transport. I do not wish to repeat, I have already said my concerns about this. I do not think there should be a budget line, but at the same time it affects nearly 1 million people in the countryside. I think he's got a place in the next year's budget. I ask the government to be partners in this and to think about it. One of the amendments to my constituency directly concerns the construction of the southern bridge. This has also been my proposal for amendment for several years, even because it has been promised for 20 years that the construction of the southern bridge in the city of Szeged is in process, which is important not only for Szeged, but also for the southern lowland region. With the proximity of the triple border, the construction of this bridge could mean a serious economic and cultural growth. According to my information, there is an agreement between the Government and the Investor National Infrastructure Developer with the preparation of new motorways bypass hubs and bridge development, and part of this is the preparation for the implementation of the New Szeged Bridge. But since I have not seen a budget line for this in the next year's budget, I ask that the government envisages HUF 2 billion in preparation for this, since there is already an agreement between the government and the NIF on this matter, with NIF implementing the idea that the intermodal hub will also be established at the railway station in Szeged. And I also have a request for road repair. As I said, we know exactly that Hungary's roads are in very bad shape. In my county there is one of these, but in terms of its condition, the top 10 may have the road that is the worst, and this is the 4302 road that connects Szeged and Kübekháza. It's a ten-mile stretch. One kilometer of this was renovated, left behind a 9.1 kilometer section. I would also like to reserve 450 million forints. Thank you very much for listening, and I trust that my amendments will find ears open from the government.
u2021-05-20-92	Thank you. I now address Mr. Robert Balázs Simon, representative of Fidesz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-20-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As one of the Vice-Presidents of the Committee on Culture, I would like to add a few points to the draft on the cultural field. If we look back just a little bit until 2010, we can see that in 2010 the budget submitted at that time amounted to HUF 171.6 billion in the cultural area. If we look at the 2022 draft, we can see that this bill contains HUF 488.7 billion, which represents an increase of 185 percent. If you look at the increase, this is nominally 317 billion forints. This is definitely a step forward. However, if compared with the budget total of 2021, there is still an increase, you can see that the difference between 2021-22 and 2021 is HUF 15.8 billion in favour of the draft 2022. If we do a little dissecting of the details and look at the performing arts area, including the art institutions, then we can see that the state-reserved budgetary bodies, including the Hungarian State Opera House, the Budapest Opera Theatre and the Pesti Hungarian Theatre, were introduced in 2021. The amount due to the institutions represents an additional HUF 3 billion of HUF 650 million. If we look at artistic activities, including the promotion of performing art activities, we see that the resources available for this appropriation are an opportunity to achieve the performing arts goals. Within the framework of the project, programmes for the operation of dance, music, theatre and circus art will be supported, and resources for the government decision will be secured from this trend, such as resources for the long-term operation of religious creative communities, musical bands and musicians, which will be HUF 950 million in 2022. Or the source necessary to create the infrastructure background of the Recirquel New Circus Company and to ensure its artistic work between 2019-23, which will be HUF 350 million in 2022. But here is also the source required to perform the tasks related to the historical travelling theatre activities of the Hungarian-kanizsa Chamber Theatre Nonprofit Limited Liability Company, which includes HUF 300 million in 2022, or the support of the Liszt Ferenc Chamber Orchestra Foundation, which is HUF 50 million in 2022. Then, if you look further, the tasks arising from the implementation of the Act of Performing Arts provide the portfolio with an estimate of operational and artistic applications for the implementation of the required tasks, i.e. the support of Hungarian performing-art organizations at home and across borders. Then support the implementation and operation of the professional programmes of theatres, ballet and dance groups, orchestras and choirs that are not considered national performing arts organisations or major performing arts organisations, which are otherwise carried out by tender, where operational support for non-qualified theatres and dance ensembles is published, operating support for non-qualified orchestras and choirs, and support for the achievement of key artistic goals through a tender. Supporting the outstanding artistic goals, theatres, dance groups, the promotion of special artistic goals, orchestras, choirs, support for performing art organizations with outstanding artistic performance during the season, on the basis of a restricted tender, HUF 1 billion at draft level in 2022. Other theater grants: the theatres in joint operation will receive their operating support from this section from the year 2021, the theatres in the maintenance of the Municipality of Budapest and the supporting documents of the individual municipal theatres, which will total HUF 16.8 billion in 2022. [[18.20]] I would like to mention in particular the support of the 100 Gypsy Orchestra, which is on its own. February 2021 Niedermüller Péter, Budapest VII. The DK mayor of the district of his district has posted the 100-member Gypsy Orchestra from the local Power House, which has been home for more than a decade. The Hungarian Heritage Prize winner 100 Gypsy Orchestra, who has been concerting since 1987, is a unique formation in the world, which is a positive and emblematic institution since its establishment. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. This is HUF 30 million in 2022. Looking further and looking at the draft, the additional support of performing art organisations, the elimination of corporate tax benefits, will result in the support of performing art organisations from a budget estimate, thus ensuring the quality and sustainable functioning of the Hungarian performing arts life. In addition to the metropolitan theatres, so-called independent theatres without local government or municipal maintenance, as well as dance and music organisations, can benefit from extra support from performing arts. On the basis of additional artistic support, registered performers' organisations or other organisations and local authorities engaged in performing arts activities may apply for funding. The basic structure of state support for the performing arts sphere is provided, and in the case of performing arts institutions with state and municipal reservations, the primary funding is the maintenance task of the present, while the extra support for the performing arts is a central dotation for public purposes and value. This is HUF 23.7 billion in 2022. We need to talk to Szent István Philharmonic Non-profit Kft. I'm also talking about saving her. Until 28 February 2021, Zuglói Filharmónia Non-profit Kft. Philharmónia Magyarország Non-profit Kft. with effect from 25 November 2020. has been exercised ownership rights, thereby being excluded from the maintenance of the Zugló municipality. Szent István Philharmonic Non-profit Kft. the annual budget support of HUF 175.3 million under the allocation rules will also be provided in the 2022 budget. Support festivals and events, support festivals. The Government decision on the operation of the International Theatre Meeting of Madách Imre and the establishment and operation of the Bartók Spring Festival and the Liszt Festival, as well as the provision of the necessary resources, provides the source for further support for cultural programmes, events and festivals established in previous years within the framework of the Budapest Spring Festival and the Café Budapest Contemporary Art Festival. From 2021 onwards, not only in Budapest, but also in national locations, this appropriation includes HUF 1 billion 950 million. Lázár Ervin programme: this appropriation is intended to provide for the possibility of visiting one-year free theatre, dance and circus performances, classical music concerts, musical institutions and indigenous animal presentations, regardless of the place of residence and the financial situation of the child, with the aim of preserving the national identity and preserving Hungarian culture. This very important appropriation contains HUF 5.5 billion. I also need to talk about investments and improvements. In 2020, the government will provide a special source of cultural expenditure of HUF 9 billion, which, together with the other resources provided for investment, amounts to nearly HUF 64 billion, of course, in 2022, and thus one of the highest share of cultural expenditure at EU level. I note here that, based on Eurostat data in March 2021, Hungary spends the most money on culture in Europe in the same proportion as Estonia and Iceland, in proportion to GDP. In Hungary, this amount was 1.3 per cent of GDP in 2018, while in Europe the average was 0.4 per cent, then in 2021 1.5 per cent of GDP, while in Europe the average remained 0.4 per cent. Almost a hundred cultural infrastructure development projects have been launched since 2013. Looking back on the past, the previous years, I would like to mention an example: the Museum of Fine Arts has become more modern. During the work carried out between 2015 and 2018, almost complete technical modernisation of the building was carried out. The second phase of the renovation started in 2020, with the government guaranteeing nearly HUF 1.6 billion, and in 2021 the Government's decision is expected to allow an additional HUF 1.7 billion to be spent on the development of the Museum of Fine Arts. So this is my sentence for this current year, 2021. The construction of the new building of the Ethnographic Museum is still ongoing within the framework of the Liget Budapest project. The building and the new permanent exhibition in it are expected to be delivered in the spring of next year. Next year's budget will support the construction of the new standing exhibition with HUF 492 million at the cost of the Liget Budapest project. The Hungarian Museum of Natural History is moving to Debrecen. This institution is moving to Debrecen as part of the ten-year development plan of the county seat of Hajdúság. In the city, the government provides more than HUF 7.6 billion for cultural development between 2021 and 23 in the framework of the Debrecen 2030, i.e. 2030 development programme. The preparation of the new transport museum continues. With further support from the preparation of the new central exhibition hall of the Hungarian Museum of Technology and Transport, the project will continue, with a further HUF 2.1 billion in the draft budget in 2022. The Szentendre Museum of Open Air Ethnography, Skanzen, the building ensemble presents the folk architecture and object culture of Transylvania, Partium and Moldva in some 15 hectares. The second phase of the Transylvania region is expected next spring, which will receive an additional HUF 383 million in 2022. The renovation of theatres and theatre buildings is ongoing throughout the country. The renovation or preparation of seven rural and one capital theatres is underway at the moment. To date, the government has provided a total of HUF 32.4 billion of domestic budget support for the ongoing investments. The majority of the renovations of the theatre buildings are carried out within the framework of the.Modern Cities. e.g. the Petőfi Theatre in Veszprém, the National Theatre in Csokona in Debrecen, with additional resources provided by the government in 2020 in the framework of the Debrecen 2030. As a Member of the Parliament of the city of Győr, I would like to mention that the renovation of the National Theatre of Győr is included in the programme of modern cities, but this is expected to take place in a cultural district, where not only the National Theatre of Győr, but also several other cultural institutions, and, as I have mentioned, this can also be realized in the frame of the programme "Modern Cities." [[18.30]] The renovation of the Szigliget Theatre in Szolnok, the Katona József Theatre in Kecskemét, the Latinovits Theatre in Debrecen, as a playground of the National Theatre in Debrecen, will be renewed from a source, while the renovation of the József Attila Theatre in the capital will be completed. The program supporting the care of Imre Makovecz's oeuvre will continue. In 2015, the government launched the program on the care of Imre Makovecz's oeuvre, which aims to implement the plans of the outstanding architect's oeuvre and to renovate its buildings. The programme will continue until 2026 with HUF 1.1 billion in 2022. Last but not least, the Sándor Csoóri programme. Since its launch in 2017, the Sándor Csoóri programme has achieved its initial goals, the promotion of the knowledge transfer of Hungarian and ethnic Hungarian folk dance and folklore groups and folklore groups across the border, and the development of the professional work of the creative communities of folklore and folklore. Many new ensembles were also created in settlements where the respect of folklore was disappearing. Based on the draft budget law of 2022, the programme can be continued with HUF 3 billion. In conclusion, the cultural sector will not suffer any shortage of resources next year, compared to this year, as I said, the increase is HUF 317 billion. Perhaps an important idea even for the cultural sector. While the activities of Balliberal governments are well demonstrated by one of their harmful measures, which was the abolition of wages and pensions for the 13th month, I highlighted this because it was particularly sensitive to the cultural sphere, so as long as they took away a month's wages, the current government created the opportunity to increase the wages of those working in the cultural sector in connection with the change of legal relationship during the outbreak of the Crown Virus. The budgetary institutions directly received the salary needed for the 6 percent increase, while in the municipal sector this was insured by a normative increase. Ladies and gentlemen, For my part, I propose that the budget be adopted, and, as I have said, as Vice-President of the Committee on Culture, I am here in my speech addressing the most important objectives and lines in the cultural sector. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2021-05-20-94	Thank you. Our next speaker is László Lu-kács, representative of Jobbik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-20-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to talk to you about two things close to my heart, by the way of the budget. One is, I think, no secret, the public expenditure side of health and health, which is included in the 2022 budget, and the other will be the Grand Commonwealth and the Grand Commonwealth. In the current budget, there is a trend and evidence that in all countries and not only in Western countries, but also in the East, there is a steady increase in costs in all countries where healthcare is sought to be maintained and publically organised as a constitutional right. This is due to the fact that both the development of technology and the ageing of the population in health care assume and entail an ongoing increase in the burden that must be covered by public expenditure or even private expenditure. How a country covers healthcare from public expenditure and how it provides resources for adequate expenditure can be extracted from a budget. It was a recurring debate, and I am very pleased that Mr Secretary of State is here, because he has listened to my position several times in my previous years, that the Hungarian budget must, on the one hand, also comply with and cover this condition regarding technological development and ageing or an ageing society, and, on the other hand, the budget must be designed in such a way that it is predictable and predictable work in the creation of funds. When it comes to funding, the government has chosen the way that, in addition to or above social security, it actually creates the costs it would like to spend, on the basis of taxes, by collecting taxes. In essence, the majority of the funding of Hungarian health care is based on taxes, on which it is possible to argue how dangerous it is, on how well-designed budget expenditure can be planned for years or ten years. However, I think that more stable legs and a lot more supplements should be found, even if the government has tried to support the revenue side with sectoral special taxes or special taxes that are essentially health-related. For example, let us remember that the public health product tax, which, as we see it, was actually spilled into the joint and was dedicated to supporting real public health objectives, was not actually translated. There is certainly progress in public spending. In recent years, on the one hand, the government, listening to criticism, but on the other hand keeping pace with the requirements of technology and ageing, has steadily increased the amounts it has directed to health care. In essence, all that has been achieved is that we have been able to keep up with the development of the European Union and even the OECD, which indicates a steady increase in public spending in proportion to GDP, and Hungary has followed these public expenditure increases. I would also like to note that it would be in Hungary's interest, in addition, to reduce spending from its own pockets, i.e. the so-called out of pocket own spending in some way, thereby reducing the exposure and burden of the population, and the state can take over as much of them as possible. Thus, it would be worth reducing the gap between public expenditure and private expenditure, as it is also relatively high at European level, what Hungarians have to pay in their own pocket in terms of healthcare expenditure. It was clear, and the EPP Jobbik consistently represented that we want to maintain a robust health care system based on state-funded social security. Our budget proposals, whether it is about financing hospital debt or improving basic care, could be about, for example, covering missed on-call cost increases, always aimed at having a strong public health care system, and we can achieve it, and I believe that the epidemic has demonstrated for the past almost a year and a half that a very strong public health system can really respond well and effectively to a very big challenge. I would also like to add and draw the attention of the government to the fact that the epidemic has not only given us the opportunity to defend and protect Hungarian people, but also to rethink how to transform our health care. The epidemic was an opportunity, a very unfortunate event, but an opportunity to move forward and to move on, I think, to reduce the exposure of the population in paying health expenditure out of their own pocket and increase public spending to a level as close as possible to the OECD or EU GDP average. Where improvements need to be made, it is obviously sustainable funding. I have mentioned above that tax revenues or, by the way, dedicated social security revenues should be converted in such a way that, in the long term, the budget can be planned for five to ten years. Obviously, we have also admitted at some level, and it has also been admitted by the government, as stated in the EU component, that the government sees that Hungarian healthcare is hospital-centred, sees that we spend a lot of money on hospitals, and it is clear that the system is underfunded. This is where we get to the issue of hospital debts. It has been a recurring problem for many years now that the settlement of hospital debts is still not properly built into it, it must always be carried out in the course of the year, reorganised, so that the government can settle the debt of 30-50 billion regularly. The problem of these debts is not only that it is pushing hospitals and disincentives the budget in some way, but also that suppliers who supply foreign-ordered goods will be forced to charge a premium, thus increasing the cost of orders in Hungarian hospitals, because sooner or later suppliers who are making a living out of it and who now have to plan the 3-6 month delay almost operationally in their contracts will have to put a constant price increase on hospitals, so hospital purchases and hospital benefits will continue to be expensive. It is very important, and it is also not yet visible in the budget, the development of digitalisation. The EEW was a very good direction in this direction, but we must continue to take action using the possibilities of big data and spending the funds dedicated to it. It seems very thin, even in view of the EU's plans, that the government wants to move forward in this regard. However, if something had a very high efficiency, it would be precisely the proper analysis of these vast sets of data and the organisation of sick roads and hospital benefits according to this. [[18.40]] As a criticism, let me mention that civil society organisations, who carry out very important complementary activities in the health care sector, have not signed out on the basis of the practice of the last year, how much money will be paid on the line that is intended for them. In the previous year, the name of the beneficiary or the recipient of the budget support was always marked, but now there is a large bulk, from which it cannot be seen that the organisations, such as the National Organisation for Cancer Diseases, receive 20 million, 40 million or 50 million, and they are not even broken down in the chapter justification. There is still no alcohol strategy in Hungary, although there is a great need for it, it is still lacking in public health programmes, and it is not included in the budget, although several national health programmes are being detailed. The question of reducing waiting lists, the numbers and the money provided for it cannot be read out, even though we can see that because of the epidemic, not only in 2021, but also in 2022, the issue of how we can replace the accumulated patient population, the missed doctor-patient meetings. And to talk a little bit about the Great Community, I have tabled a number of amendments to improve health care that I am happy to recommend to the attention of either the Ministry of Finance or even my fellow Members. These are all developments in the state of the Grand Tours and their development, such as the development of the 34 road between Kunhegyes and Tiszafüred, which is very important for tourism, or the development of lower roads where most of the people from Lake Tisza to the capital of the Tisza, Karcagra, on the one hand, is going to work, to the hospital, and, on the other hand, they really have to travel in war conditions, which, with a little attention and relatively negligible cost, would be able to be cured by what the government is willing to spend and what in 2022. The development of the Karcag hospital is also one of the important issues that we need, the Karcag hospital. It has to be said that it has to work with as many classes as possible. So, based on the current plans that the EMMI is trying to force the hospitals to tell us what classes are not needed, we would like to say that the people of the great community, the 100,000 people who use hospital care in Karcag, need all the departments and the best-equipped care. I would like to mention two more things, two extremely dangerous intersections on Route 4. The route 4 is the death path of Hungary anyway, it is a well-known fact, unfortunately, most of the fatal accidents occur there, and among them, the crossroads of the weapon and the intersection of the Karcag Gyarmati road almost every year cause serious or otherwise fatal accidents. Even if the M4 road is extended, these intersections need to be immediately secured. One last thing I think would be very important, symbolic, old reparation: essentially negligible cost, but for a very long time we have been indebted to the memory of the forced labour camp in Hortobágy and to the creation of a memorial for their families in the places of forced labour camps in the Nagykunságság. It exists in the Kócsújfalu of Tiszafüred, but there are camps where thousands of our countrymen have spent that forced labor, unjustly, without judgment, upon them, which has destroyed families. By all means, we have a common obligation to establish such a memory and to help the memory of the relatives. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Support these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-20-96	Thank you. Our next speaker is János Pócs, representative of Fidesz. Here you go. [[For signal:]] There is no congressman here, so Zoltán Balczó, the representative of Jobbik, has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-20-97	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, 'Cause there's only better-looking congressmen in this room. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Yesterday I had the opportunity to listen to Minister Mihály Varga's exposé. In short, I have to say, she looks at everything through pink glasses, everything's perfect. I saw that he did not give a balanced assessment because he thought there was a division of labour: he praised me and the opposition would criticize me. He said that because of the great state of the Hungarian economy in 2020, this is the past, and next year he says that businesses will restart and develop. However, the state of the economy is well reflected in the number of winding-ups: in the first half of 2020, the number of winding-ups increased by nearly 40 percent compared to the previous year; otherwise, 12,000 winding-up procedures were published during the year, so that is how many of them decided to make a record out of their own accord with the orderly winding-up of the company. Obviously, it was the basic macroeconomic data that the Minister spoke primarily about as a starting point: expenditure, revenue, deficit, public debt. I would now point to this deficit, which is planned to be 5.9 percent compared to GDP. In the opinion of the Fiscal Council, there was this objection, which was strongly said here by President Árpád Kovács, that he believes that this should be reduced next year, and he concluded by recommending it to Members. This is a torque, because obviously Parliament doesn't operate in such a way, especially when the Parliament changes something by controlling the government, where appropriate by modifying its proposals. But I would like to express my opinion on this deficit issue. Personally, on a particular condition, I do not agree that the deficit should be reduced. If we accept counter-cyclical economic policy in this situation, we must say that we hope that the situation will be consolidated and improved, not that this will also happen in the economy. Obviously, the most important help for the economy in 2020 would have been to try to reduce expenditure that is not related to production and, on the other hand, to support them in preserving the workforce. We have repeatedly said what we have missed on this issue, but at the same time in the next year, trusting that the economy will start on the start of the economy, there is a need for a greater involvement of the state financially. But what is this condition? If we look at this in detail, this has been said several times by the opposition, and we see in these actions, in the Economic Protection Action Package, the huge proportion of items that, to put it mildly, are not as before the agenda, because the Secretary of State does not usually consider a political direct campaign, so to say, the projects of a fairly well-defined large business community have been supported to a significant extent, causing significant wealth growth, while the objectives in question have not served economic protection. If this is the case next year, the President of the Court of Auditors is indeed right that it is not worth keeping this deficit at 5.9 percent; if they change, it will benefit. I would like to talk about the EU's relations with the budget. I say this every year, because this is an important aspect, but this year in particular, since this year the multiannual financial cycle, 2021-2027, and the recovery package will take place to help the European Union and its Member States out of the crisis caused by Covid. This is in a different way, isn't it, next generation is called the EU. I would like to say a few words about the government and Viktor Orbán's relationship with the EU in the area of the budget. In recent years, I've heard from Fidesz government officials that what we get isn't a gift, we get paid. They're right if we use it for what we asked for and for what it's given. [[18.50]] In 2010, Jobbik entered Parliament and conducted a study with an independent, professional financial and economic analyst trying to balance what the real balance of our accession looks like from 2004 to 2010. And here it was necessary to take into account the so-called transformational losses, which resulted from the fact that, in the early 1990s, Hungary, when it carried out privatisation and deregulation, practically wanted to comply with accession, and the Hungarian economy suffered a number of disadvantages and losses, which can be partially quantified. So it is true that we have paid the price for becoming a member of the European Union. At that time, Fidesz and the government rejected this analysis of Jobbik, then it was completely integrated into the major parties of the European Union. Before me, I was a MEP for ten months, and I saw how this strange coalition controls European processes within the framework of the People's Party and the Socialists, in full agreement with the Fidesz in the People's Party. Everything has changed since then, since then, everything the EU has done is wrong, because it had to be turned into an enemy for internal political purposes, so that it is clear that Viktor Orbán is the head of state, the freedom hero who opposes the European Union's negative goals. In the meantime, we should add that in ten years there have been a significant amount of resources, which if the government had used them properly, it would have been able to provide prosperity to all Hungarians. I would add that the real programme to support the Hungarian economy, which would have helped small and medium-sized enterprises to create value added, did not start before 2010. So this criticism doesn't just apply to the Fidesz government. Orbán wrote an open letter to Mikuláš Dzurinda, the former Slovak President. It says that if we compare the money that flows into the V4 countries via EU transfers with the profits and dividends we have exported from us, we can see what serious losses we are suffering, the difference is 80 percent for Hungary. This comparison is simply absurd. How can we compare the Hungarian envelope that we receive from the European Union with that exported profits and dividends? How's that? We hear that when Viktor Orbán comes back from the negotiations: he fought by a victorious general in the field of Brussels... and he has made so much surplus for Hungary if we compare it with other countries, how successfully we have negotiated, what a positive position we are in. Let me add, that's pretty much true. It's not that we don't have enough money, it's that we use it. Well, now you're a relative and a very good result, and we get a lot in the national envelope, so how do you tell us at the next moment to stand on our heels because we're being cut off? So what profits and dividends exported from Hungary are not the result of the economic policy in Orbán? It is not the economic policy that attempts to solve competitiveness by quoting what the Prime Minister said when he visited Saudi Arabia: "Come and invest in Hungary, because the Hungarian workforce is surprisingly cheap, and the labour code is very flexible. This is one side of competitiveness, and the other is that corporate tax went from 18 to 9 percent. This is why these large companies, which, of course, increase GDP, take away profits and dividends. Well, who's to blame for that? The companies to which the Hungarian government provides this, and which therefore comes here? From the recovery fund, I would like to say the following: the total amount of this could have been HUF 5800 billion for Hungary, of which 2500 billion, which we receive as so-called aid, and 3300 billion can be taken on the basis of a decision of our own. In terms of origin, of course, both of them are borrowing. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The reforms and investments included in the Hungarian recovery plan are expected to cost HUF 5797 million at current prices. I quote this from the document adopted in mid-April. The table divided this into so-called nine components, and we have heard that this table, this programme was discussed with 500 stakeholders at online conferences, is backed by a social opinion. After that, when they went to Brussels, Prime Minister, and his loyal arms bearer, they negotiated, and after that it turned out to be all back, we would not submit it, except for the so-called subsidy amount of HUF 2511 billion. Of course, we can hear the reasons why higher education, the university community, doesn't get the amount they planned. Obviously, in the way you have taken state higher education to trust foundations, the European Commission did not accept this with such excruciating joy that it would have given this support. The other was also naive to finance health wage development through EU funds. I myself found this kind of support and wage support in five years of representation only in one case, when there was a fund for this, when one of the industries in one of the countries was in crisis, there were huge redundancies, then it was possible to apply with severance pay to support redundancies. But to cover the wage development of a sector in the European Union, this was already naive. Maybe you can trust that this is what I hear, that we're trying to make it look like it's not a one-time average wage development, it's a remodeling of a system, a parasolvency, and in view of that, maybe we'll get money. I'd like that to be true, of course, I'm not a fan, but it was clear that we didn't get these. Well, the EUR 2.5 billion borrowing took place at the end of November. In the middle of November, Prime Minister said in his usual radio statement on Friday that the aim of this is that we can cover investments and developments even if in some way this particular plan and recovery package is not adopted, which, by the way, is threatened by the Hungarian veto. Now, why is EUR 2.5 billion taken on sovereign debt financing better than the corresponding, much cheaper credit available from this EU package? On the one hand, I accept, and it can be said that it is free to use. In other respects, however, there is a great deal of potential that could have been used usefully for the purposes of Hungary. But I am not mistaken when I say that it has played a role in this, too, that in this case this amount, this use, does not need to be presented to Hungary, and this cannot be verified by the European Union. With regard to Hungary's corruption situation, let me quote the opinion of the Council of Europe from July 2020, in our convergence programme, which was drafted in a law. [[19.00]] It says:. The Commission's audit of public procurement in recent years has revealed systemic shortcomings. Investigation and prosecution activities appear to be less effective in Hungary than in other Member States. There is no decisive and systematic action to pursue high-level corruption. I quote this from a legal document. In the case of Hungary, by the way, 3.93 percent of the total payments of catch funds and agricultural funds between 2015-19 were found problematic and proposed punishment. The EU average is 0.36%, without Hungary 0.13. Yeah, I've heard it several times from government representatives, which basically includes subway 4. In 75 percent, this is at the expense of subway 4, which is serious that they have done so, but 75 percent of them remain 25 percent, that is close to 1 percent, 0.98, which is already at the expense of this government. 0.98, while this is 0.35% for Romania accused of systemic corruption, 0.33 for Bulgaria. What I can say is that we can use money well if we change two things: if the government were willing to continue to fight hard corruption and change its economic policy. For, as Speaker László Kövér said in the expozee of the resolution proposal on 14 July, I quote: "The next Generation is a cynical expression of the recovery package, which is called the EU, that the check that some people are piling up here, and then our children, the generation of our children, will pay for it for 30 years. This is true, unless, once again, these funds are used by the current government to do what they say, to combat corruption, and to change the economic policy that the government is now pursuing. I quote György Matolcsy: Hungary does not have a unified and clear vision today. If there is, and economic and social policies serve this, then this particular Next Generation EU will not be a cynical name, then it will be possible to create prosperity and freedom for this next generation and perhaps even for ourselves. That's what Jobbik works for. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-20-98	Thank you. I now address János Pócs, representative of Fidesz.
u2021-05-20-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The negative effects of the coronal virus epidemic have overwhelmed previous economic prospects worldwide, including in our country. As my fellow Members have pointed out yesterday, the draft budget for 2022 should focus primarily on the re-launch of the economy affected by the coronal virus epidemic and the management of epidemiological preparedness. The primary objective of the Hungarian economic policy is to maintain the results achieved so far and to re-launch the economy, and to restore the momentum of growth, which is outstanding at EU level. In this difficult situation, there is no need for restrictions, not to make the living conditions of the population more difficult, so the government has developed an economic protection programme that allows the economy to return to normal. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The main economic policy objective is to increase the competitiveness of Hungarian agriculture, its ability to generate income, and to reduce the adverse effects of climate change on agricultural production. The draft law on the central budget for 2022 is set out in Annex XII. There is 132.6 billion forints in the chapter of the Agricultural Ministry, while 77.2 billion forints are available in the chapter of the Economic Protection Fund. This will total HUF 209.9 billion. The agricultural compensation scheme, which has been in place since 2012, contributes to the continuous increase in emissions and exports in the sector. The aim of the agricultural administration is to further develop the agricultural risk management toolkit and to increase it by risk-preventing instruments. This is how the third pillar, the national ice prevention system, was introduced in May 2018 and the agricultural compensation scheme will be extended from 2022 onwards. Agriculture is one of the most affected areas of climate change and one of its main tasks is the supply of food to the population. As the risks of agriculture increase, an increasing focus is placed on risk prevention and management, which the government pays particular attention to. While HUF 8.6 billion was translated into national agricultural compensation in the central budget of 2021, HUF 12.8 billion was translated into this purpose in the central budget of 2022. This represents a positive difference of HUF 4.2 billion, which helps farmers to continue to receive adequate compensation for their losses. To date, the government's objective is to maintain our country's GMO-free status, improve the state of the environment, promote the sustainable use of natural resources and protect biodiversity while using ecosystem services. In addition, GMO-free food production will be promoted by a product certification system for the introduction of the trade mark. Hungary's aim is to establish a GMO-free food chain, which includes the production of animal products beyond the issue of feed from seed. In order to ensure this, it is necessary to strengthen controls, sampling, the performance of official tasks related to the control of counterfeiting and the development of existing official systems. The state will spend HUF 3.5 billion on animal, plant and GMO compensation on the basis of the budget allocation for 2022. It is a fundamental objective for young people to find their vision in agriculture and rural life, so as to ensure that young people in rural areas remain locally. The development of knowledge transfer is essential to increase the competitiveness and development of agriculture, including vocational training, adult education and professional advice. New education has been introduced in the new vocational training system. According to the principle of this structure, it is the school system's task to provide a wide range of sectoral professional knowledge, the competences expected by employers. In addition, the primary objective of the government is to increase employment in livestock and other labour-intensive sectors, such as gardening and livestock production, with substantial support from both EU and national sources. As a result of the above, the budget for 2021 is HUF 25.6 billion under the heading "Agricultural press" and this represents HUF 29.2 billion for the 2022 budget. In this respect, an increase of HUF 3.6 billion is expected. Ladies and gentlemen, The government is committed to improving the agricultural market competitiveness of Hungarian farmers, strengthening economic positions and supporting the development of domestic agriculture. [[19.10]] For this reason, the government has raised the co-financing of the rural development programme of the common agricultural policy from 17.5 percent to 80 percent, which means that three times more amounts will be insured for Hungarian agriculture than the amount available between 2014-2020, not only from 2023 but also in the two years ahead. At present, EU policy rules coordinating the functioning of the CAP have not yet been adopted. Thus, 2022 will be a transitional year, but the final technical rules for the CAP for the transitional period were published already in 2020. It is therefore clear that there is a significant change in agricultural subsidies by making the sum of national co-financing a maximum of 80% that can be granted in the Union in a unique manner. Thus, in the new programming period, nearly three times the amount of funding can be paid to Hungary in the programming period 2021-2027, representing approximately HUF 7900 billion through cohesion EU funds and the Hungarian contribution. As a result, the use of EU funds for agriculture and rural development is significantly changing compared to the previous periods. The EAFRD programming framework for the European Agricultural and Rural Development Fund 2014-2020 is EUR 3430,6 million for Hungary, with an average of 18% national co-financing. This allows the use of a public contribution of HUF 1413 billion. Hungary will receive transitional resources from EAFRD resources for a further two years, 2021 and 2022. One of the key elements of the rural development programme is adaptation to climate change, and in line with this, environmentally sound sustainable management is an important aspect of agri-environmental management, and its area of action is the expansion of rural areas and communities, the rural economy and the development of local communities. Finally, thanks to the persistent and hard work of farmers, as well as the national-Christian government, the Hungarian agriculture has not failed or is not ruined. On the contrary, it has been on an ever-increasing track since 2010, making a significant contribution to the country's economic performance. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, we have the necessary resources for the central budget figures for 2022. This will contribute to continuous, gradual development. On what has been said, I can say with all my heart that I support this proposal, and I ask my fellow Members to support it. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention. Thank you.
u2021-05-20-100	Thank you. Mr Péter Banai wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-05-20-101	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, as Mr President said, today's debates have made a lot of statements about next year's budget. Allow me to contribute a few thoughts towards the end of the day to the discussion of the draft budget law. Each draft budget law can be assessed in at least two respects as an important economic policy document. One evaluation is a macroeconomic analytical assessment where we look at the deficit level, the debt level that the government is targeting, the economic growth or the economic policy nature that focuses, for example, on investment, consumption, possibly savings, from a macroeconomic point of view, is good, not good; it is good for economic policy or not. The other approach is about what a budget means in everyday life: wages increase, pensions increase, taxes fall, family support increases or not? I think that there is a place for both assessments, and I think that in the longer term, an economic policy can only be successful if we see results from both aspects. But there is an economic policy that can show economic growth, but let's say the number of people employed is decreasing. I would recall from the Hungarian economic history that in the 2000s there was a year when the economy grew, but it was difficult to see in everyday life. And we also know from Hungarian experience that it is possible to make a very significant wage increase for a year in the public sector, for example, or a tax reduction. But if this is achieved in an unsustainable way, with the release of deficit and debt, then this has very serious consequences. Allow me to respond from these two aspects to some of what has been said today. Deficit: Mr Sándor Szabó said that the way to restart is to increase the deficit. I totally agree with that. This is precisely one of the key elements of economic policy, as Mr Balczó Zoltán said, in the spirit of countercyclical economic policy, if there are market disturbances, the state must enter and maintain demand. I therefore think that it is appropriate that, in order to protect jobs, we achieved a greater deficit in the interests of maintaining wages last year. We can remember that between 2012 and 2019 the Hungarian deficit level was constantly below 3 percent, which is why we were able to use this countercyclical economic policy instrument. I would recall the previous crisis when the government, if it wanted to, could not have lived with it, because there was no one to buy the Hungarian sovereign debt. That is why I think that, yes, the temporary increase in the deficit is acceptable, and the result was that last year the decline in the Hungarian economy was lower than the EU average, and it came down to the fact that in 4.5 to 4.6 million people, jobs could be preserved and even the wages of those who kept their job increased. The question is that we can reduce debt, and, yes, we see that we can reduce the debt ratio. We expect that both this year and the following year will reduce the debt ratio. Here, let me recall what Congressman Lajos Oláh said. He said that there was never such a government debt. But, unfortunately, we know again from the Hungarian economic history that in 2010, at the time of the change of government, the debt ratio was higher. And I am pleased that many people on the left also spoke about deficit and debt. We know that the Hungarian debt ratio increased every year between 2002 and 2010. Even in the years when there was, by the way, a economic activity in Europe. And we also know that after 2011, every year until 2019, the debt ratio decreased, and now, because of the economic crisis, the debt ratio has also increased, but we want to reduce it. Mr Zoltán Balczó said that economic policy needs to be changed. I quote the historical figures of Hungarian economic policy, whether before 2010 or after 2010, because I think that the effectiveness of economic policy can be measured in macroeconomic figures, and also in what people perceive in everyday life. Here I must reject the wording that Congressman György Szilágyi said, even if it is not here that there is manipulated statistics. If you do not believe in government statistics, I recommend that you pay attention to the statistics of the European Union. On the Eurostat website you will see that the European Union's economy has increased slightly by more than 10 percent over the period 2010-2020, which is 30 percent for the Hungarian economy. If we look at the number of people employed, we see that while the Hungarian employment rate in 2010 was substantially lower than the EU average, this situation has now changed. If we look at the debt ratio, then we know that in 2010 the Hungarian debt ratio was substantially higher than the EU debt ratio, this situation has now changed. [[19.20]] I think that economic policy is therefore successful in this regard, in terms of numbers, and I will explain how I think that was felt in everyday life. Mr President, Mr Balczó also pointed out that the results of economic policy should be forwarded to everyone, and that he had a wording for investments that preferred only a narrow group. In the context of the 2022 budget, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this demand-enhancing deficit and indeed greater than the deficits of the last decade is part of the fact that we want to improve the employment of people under the age of 25. This is also a macroeconomic approach, since the employment rate in this age group is lower. We want young people to be encouraged to take up work; if they want to take up a job, we should make it easier for them to do so. And yes, it is a step forward for an individual, it is a broad measure, everyone can use it. In the same way, if you like, a recovery measure for the 13th month's pension. Yes, everyone wins with this, but let's look at the tax side: next year we will expect the employer's burden to be reduced by 2 percentage points, as the vocational training contribution will be driven out of this 1.5 percent tax on gross wages, and we will also reduce the social contribution tax rate by half a percentage. So I would like to draw the attention of the Honourable Parliament to the fact that government measures are a wide range of measures that affect everyone. I have heard opinions highlighting from past experience what groups have received investment grants. Here, let me remind you once again that last year the biggest investment support programme was a normative programme, where anyone who applied and undertook to invest in preserving the workplace received the aid. Everyone, whether it's the former president of the SZDSZ, the former Minister of Economic Affairs, or any other person. So I think that this economic policy has indeed reached a wide range of people. As far as macroeconomic figures are concerned, I thanked Mr Sándor Szabó for saying that the 5.2 percent increase can be jumped or reached, that was the message that Mr Szabó said. And here I am finishing my comment on the overall macroeconomic figures, because if we are serious about the need to reduce the debt ratio in the longer term because it is the government debt paid by all of us, and we should avoid the situation that was long ago, when financing the debt ratio compared to the current level of expenditure, say, a thousand billion forints higher expenditure, if I compare the GDP-related figures, then, yes, we should reduce the debt ratio and thank God we see that the European Commission's growth forecast for next year is 5.5 percent and the International Monetary Fund is 5.9 percent. These figures have been said many times, but again I say this because if the government's forecast is not achieved and, as the notary said, this growth of 5.2 is easily achieved, and indeed, don't give me the god, Mr. deputist, notary, but let us hope that economic growth will be even higher, then it will be easier to reduce the debt ratio, and indeed, in the longer term, we all need to experience this positive part of it. And then let me move on to what everyday economic policy, which also sets out the 2022 budget, meant. Many contributions, perhaps most of the contributions, concerned municipalities. I often hear the expression that the municipalities are bleeding out of this economic policy, the government abstract resources, the municipalities are the losers. Allow me, however, to repeat a few facts which, from the point of view of the municipalities, present the economic policy steps that have been taken so far and explain why we have made a proposal to the Honourable Parliament on which we are discussing. The first thing is that I told the municipalities many times, but I still have to repeat, the main income is the local business tax. If I have already said EU figures and Eurostat figures, I repeat what Minister Mihály Varga has already said in the expozee: if we look at the years after the turn of growth in 2013, between 2014 and 2019, the average growth of the Hungarian economy was 4.1 percent, the EU average was 2.1. This meant for local authorities that their business tax revenue increased above 50 per cent. This was even higher in terms of capital, with nearly 60 percent in the capital. As a result, their business tax revenue increased from HUF 103 billion in 2014 to HUF 164 billion in 2019 only in the capital. Only in the capital! Now imagine that if Hungarian growth had reached the EU average level, well, then this annual extra income would not have been 60 billion, but, let's say, 30 billion, for the capital alone. Therefore, in this context, it is worth assessing the economic policy that has temporarily set a one-percent ceiling for, for example, the SME key of hip. And the government did not take this money away, as opposed to a number of statements made here, but left it with the businesses, because it is in the interests of the local governments that the Hungarian economy works and that we can return to the growth path as soon as possible, because I repeat that the economic situation of the municipalities is essentially determined by the fact that the people who live there have a job, if they have a job, then the company can pay a business tax. If people have jobs, then they go to restaurants, consume, invest, again the municipality has revenue; or it is in the interest of the companies to be destroyed and to knock on the local government door only for aid. In this respect, I have also heard the Austrian analogy several times about helping municipalities in Austria. Let me say that, on the one hand, the municipal model in Austria is completely different; in Hungary, education, health and social tasks are predominantly performed by the state. The state performs a number of tasks that the municipalities in Austria, i.e. in the context of defence, are different in terms of spending. And since I mentioned aids, how many people knocked on the doors of the municipalities, we know that in Hungary employment was largely maintained at the level it was before the crisis. The decline in the Hungarian economy was lower than the EU average. It was bigger in Austria, unfortunately. It was bigger in Austria! And if I have mentioned the business tax growth context, then allow me to speak about direct budgetary support from the municipalities. On the one hand, it is important to see that in next year's budget the support of municipalities will increase by HUF 8.6 billion, and the solidarity contribution, which has been highlighted by several people, will be reduced, among other things, by Zita Gurmai in 2022 compared to 2021. And a number of people said that there was an increase compared to the 2019 level, but unfortunately left-wing speakers forgot to say that there was an amendment in the municipal funding system from 2020 to 21, that we increased the financing of mandatory tasks and increased the redistribution due to differences in tax forces in municipalities with the so-called solidarity contribution. What was the result of this? The positions of many municipalities have improved. Here I must reject the findings of partying that this is only good for the Fidesz municipalities. Let's see if you can ask the mayors. Let me say that the change from 2020 to the 21st, which runs on in the budget of 22nd in the financing of municipalities, which has improved the position of municipalities. Here I can only highlight cities with county rights, I repeat, these are already current, actual financing data, can be checked from 2020 to 21. Due to the financing of mandatory tasks and the change in the solidarity contribution, the financial situation of Szeged, Tatabány, Pécs, Hódmezővásárhely or Érd has improved, and has become worse on the basis of the factual, normative data that we set out in the budget law, Győr, Székesfehérvár, Kecskemét or Veszprém. So much for the distinction between municipalities as regards the financing provided for in the Systemic Budget Act, which, I repeat, includes a decreasing amount of solidarity contribution in 2022, an increase in subsidies. [[19.30]] Individual benefits at the end of the year, also mentioned by a number of people. Again, let me give you factual numbers. The statement from MEP Péter Ungár was, among other things, that only government-led municipalities would receive individual support. I have a long list here, let me mention some municipalities: Eger 714.3 million HUF, Miskolc 1 billion HUF 159.7 million, Pécs 1 billion HUF 981.3 million, which is related to the financing of the Zsolnay quarter, but here is also Szombathely, Siófok or Szeged, and I could list other municipalities. Finally, let me give you one more piece of information about the municipalities. I was surprised that on behalf of the Democratic Coalition, on behalf of MEP László Hajdu, I heard a comment indicating that perhaps the 15th was a pity. To take over debt from the district. By the way, it's the 15th. The financial position of the district also improved in the budgetary relationship from 2020 to 21. What I see is that the government's debt increased steadily every year from 2002 to HUF 1247.5 billion in 2010. Thus, it is also part of the municipal funding that, with the change of tasks, with additional revenues due to economic growth, they also escaped debt. I admit that it wasn't easy for the municipalities last year, but we can't talk about bleeding out. Once again, at the end of 2019 the total amount of government debt and commercial bank funds was HUF 1080.5 billion, which amounted to HUF 1048.1 billion at the end of 2020. So I think that if, in the severe year of the coronal virus epidemic, last year, when the whole world economy fell, the European Union also fell, and Hungary's economic performance has also decreased, the municipalities have managed to get through the year as a whole thanks to all the municipalities who participated in the defence, then we have the hope that the year 2022 can also bring them forward. Public wage. There was talk of local governments' benefits, the social area, the cultural area. Obviously, our aim is to increase wages in the public sector in parallel to economic growth. As a longtime public sector worker whose family members work in many areas of the public sector, I know what they're talking about. And I also know that, compared to 2010, public sector and public finances' wage-like expenditure increased by HUF 2200 billion between 2010 and 2022. So in 2010 it was 2600 billion forints, in the 2022 budget I see 4800 billion forints. So this is by far the growth rate above inflation. I hope that if the prognosis that the government has attached to next year's budget law by 2025 in terms of economic outlook is achieved, further wage increases in the public sector will be possible, in addition to repeating that next year's budget will include very significant wage increases mainly in the field of health. With this, I think that we can disprove or deny one of László Lóránt Keresztes's statements, who said that the government consciously keeps wages low. The low wages were also referred to by Mr Zoltán Balczó. Next year's draft budget accounts for 7.7 percent of gross wage growth, and the low level of wages should be seen in relation to productivity. So if we compare wage levels with productivity, then Hungary is truly competitive, this is a competitive advantage. But that doesn't mean that wages didn't increase. I don't want to waste a very long time, but I have a series of data, facts, I mean it can be verified: the change in net real earnings from 2013 to 2020 shows significant positive figures, the highest value in 2017 is net real earnings, i.e. tax and inflation-adjusted numbers, a wage increase of over 10 per cent. Net real earnings represent 163 percent of the 2012 value in 2020. So there has been a substantial wage catch-up in recent years, and we are working to ensure that this can continue in the next period. Not only did wages rise, but also pensions. László Varju, Chairman of the Budget Committee, said that pensioners are poor because of the government. If the Honourable Parliament accepts the government's budget proposal for next year, we will not only be able to preserve the real value of pensions, but also have the opportunity to receive a pension for two weeks for all persons who are retired and who have received pension benefits, and, if our economic projections are implemented, the pension premium may also be paid. Here, however, the period we see now contrasts with the time when it was a left-wing government. Forgive me for saying this again, but I must quote László László Keresztes: we must not watch what we say, but what we do. In this respect, I think that this budget proposal is also talkative in terms of pensions. And more than inflation, they said that the three percent prognosis might be too low. Let me remember two things. At present, the central bank also calculates inflation of 3%, and of course, economic policy managers have the means to keep inflation in check. This is also the basic task of the central bank. But the other thing that may provide security for pensioners is that if the pensioner inflation index is not the comprehensive one, the pensioner inflation index would have a higher value, an additional increase could be made. Education, health, these are areas where expenditure is also increasing. And I conclude by saying this: I agree with the comments that concern that not everything is pink. I didn't think we had any intention of speaking from any government side, whether I mean the Minister's exposé or the contributions of pro-government representatives, suggesting that he was here on the Canaan. Of course, that is not the case, we have a lot of work to do in many areas. All we wanted to show you, and this was the aim of my recent speech, perhaps a little longer, is to prove by numbers that we believe that economic policy, which is valuable, because we put work and families at the centre, has, overall, led to a course of catching up in recent years, which we hope can characterize the economic policy processes of the coming years, and if this is done, we will also have the opportunity to address the problems we have just seen. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-20-102	Dear Parliament, The general debate is adjourned. It will continue at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Have a good rest, everyone.
