u2021-06-15-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 31st day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and László Varga will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, The pre-meeting speeches will follow. Representative Szabó Timea has applied for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2021-06-15-1	There have been many ignominious moments in your 11-year governance, honourable Members, but today is sure to be in the dark of history. Today, in Parliament's vote, you Fidesz-KDNPs are sinking as deeply as a government whose power is only for itself; whose moral compass, moral holding, feelings for people have long since been gone. Today's vote is the perfect summary of what your 11-year government is about: theft, the Chinese debt of Hungary, revenge against opposition cities, the slavery of Hungarian workers and hatred against others. Because what are we voting on here today? Today, with the Fudan law, you will vote for Viktor Orbán to sell Hungary out to the Chinese Communist Party, and for every Hungarian family with two children, he will place a HUF 440,000 Chinese loan on it. Then, with today's budget vote, the money will be thrown away again to stadiums, to Lőrinc Mészáros fillings disguised as tourist investment, and, of course, 110 billion forints for the fake public media. But they are also voting today on the so-called housing law, in which the municipal-owned monument houses will be thrown to Rákay Philipek, Zsolt Bayer, László Palkovics for pennies. It's a free robbery, nothing else. Fidesz-KDNP is also voting today on how to continue to take revenge on opposition cities. Today you will take a billion forints from Dunaújváros just because you refused to kneel down to Viktor Orbán. But today they also oppose the decision of the Constitutional Court and refuse to abolish the slave law. For Viktor Orbán, Hungarian workers remain slaves. Finally, one of the meanest laws of today is how you try to wash paedophile crimes against other people, with the gender identity of people. Orbán and Fidesz realized a few weeks ago that attention should be shifted from stealing to kneeling down to the Chinese Communist Party, so they quickly presented an anti-pedophile law in case it distracts attention and creates some debate in society. But the calculation didn't work, because the opposition wanted to tighten this law even further. In the Dialogue, for example, we tabled the amendment to extend the ban on occupation to church persons. You know perfectly well that in recent times, unfortunately, if sexual crimes against children were common somewhere, those were the churches. Pope Francis himself spoke about this recently. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You're lying!]] Recently, we also suggested that priests to whom pedophile crimes are confessed should be exempted from the secret of confession. If the Fidesz-KDNP really wanted to protect the children, they wouldn't let the priests cover for years for predators ruining the lives of children. But you've wiped out all the suggestions, and they've been deceitful and transparent in all of their maneuvers. Especially if we don't forget that you secretly smuggled Gábor Kaleta home; if you don't have Telex today, you won't even know what that man was doing. And, by the way, to this day, we do not know why the Hungarian ambassador from Thailand, who was also recently ordered home, had to be ordered home so quickly. Is it because he did something like that? But you're the ones who don't want to hear about it. What you guys are doing is quite depraved. But, unfortunately for you, no one has walked into your trap, so it's back to the newest despicableness, the hatred of our gay compatriots. In addition, they added that they tried to match sexual crimes against children, unforgivable crimes with members of the gay community. It just doesn't make any sense. How far are you willing to go in depravedness, inciting hatred, chasing against others just to keep your power? How many more people do you want to sacrifice? Are you aware that adequate sexual education, a specialized school program, real information, or understanding support can save lives? Are you aware that without proper support and understanding, how many children can come close to suicide? You're real evil, evil people! Gay people aren't dangerous to children. You are! Vote alone or with those who still give their faces to this. We will not participate in this despicable thing. However, after the change of government, we will show you what an inclusive, accepting and loving society is like where everyone loves who they want. [[István Szilárd Németh: Love flows just like that, doesn't it? Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] And all their shameful laws today will be wiped off the face of the earth. In the meantime, shame on you.
u2021-06-15-2	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, in the voice of love, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. Pál Völner to Szabó Timea on the way to the speaker's stand: It costs a lot! Szabó Timea: It's okay, we'll do it!]]
u2021-06-15-3	I'd like to respond to this love speech. As for the budget and what's going to happen in this... [[Szabó Timea goes up to the speaker's platform, then lays out a molino in the direction of the meeting room, with a red circle sign with a large and four smaller yellow stars above it.]]
u2021-06-15-4	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary, I beg your pardon. Congresswoman, I'm warning you, please remove me. Therefore, I will put the appropriate measure into the process according to the house rules. I'd like the service, please, to take me down. [[Dr. János Fónagy: And return the congresswoman's head scarf!]] And I'm going to bring the case against you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2021-06-15-5	Change the time frame, please.
u2021-06-15-6	Of course, Mr. Secretary, we will restore the clock. Please, reset. [[It's happening.]]
u2021-06-15-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This action is also proof that they are in a competition with each other. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Try this in the English Parliament.]] And, of course, everyone has the right to express their opinion, but one thing is important here in this House is to comply with the rules. And if you can't follow the rules, you're gonna have to bear the consequences. I'm sorry that you're going to take such actions without anything to say. As far as today's votes are concerned, the budget to which you referred and what you have withheld contains, for example, a tax reduction. It includes, for example, a raise in medical wages, the largest in recent decades. It includes, for example, the restoration of the 13th month pension. It includes the tax exemption for young people, which you, Congresswoman, have not even thought about. [[There is an argument between Timea Szabó and Róbert Zsigó. The president's ringing the bell.]] It includes the renovation program, which wasn't at your time, but foreign exchange loans. And I have to add, it is also a matter of increasing the minimum wage to 200,000, while, as compensation for the effects of the epidemic, the government is considering a refund for families raising children in the event of achieving a certain economic growth. [[8.10]] As regards the Anti-Pedophile Act, the purpose of this proposal is to protect children. Thus, a searchable register is established, pedophiles cannot hide, a similar solution exists in other countries. The criminal code will be tightened, penalties will increase, there will be no slight punishment and parole to escape the horrors, and the most serious crimes will not lapse. Tell me, honourable Member, which of these you do not support. [[Szabó Timea: You know exactly...]] Tell me. Moreover, the protection of children is the State's duty under the Fundamental Law. I can see that you're making a vow and you're saying [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] that they can offer Hungary better. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] that they can offer Hungary better. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] There's just something that gives us a strong idea of what to expect from you: this thing has been a year and a half of the plague. We had to deal with three epidemics, and we fought these three epidemics by seeing only denial, minework, and unstoppable dung from the left parties. And it is very difficult to decide which was the most serious move (Szabó Timea intervenes. ): when the foreign Hungarians felt sorry for the protective equipment, or when a fake paramedic was used here in the House to claim that nine out of ten patients die (Szabó Timea intervenes). or when they decided to systematically (The President bells.) It's hard for the vaccination program to decide. [[Szabó Timea intervenes. Dr. Balázs Orbán: Be quiet! Szabó Timea: You yell at me too!]] If we had to choose the low point, we would be in a very big problem, and, honourable Member, you personally participated in all three actions. You won't have to admit it, but I hope you regret at least one of them afterwards. At least one of them. It's been a long time since we've seen a fight against the virus, and you've decided not to participate, the left has decided not to participate. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] This is how we get to the conclusion, to the conclusion that Hungary deserves a fairer left, one that deserves to be provoked. [[Szabó Timea: Provoke...]] Besides hatred, it has building stones, and sometimes, at least once in a while, honourable Member, it is able to show that it loves this country and is able to do so. [[Szabó Timea: You hate...]] If you continue to pursue the policy of provocation, as we have just seen here, we will accept that. We've got reserves, we're gonna stand up to the mud, we're gonna stand up to the debates, because they can't throw so much hate at us. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] So that we don't have a stronger attachment to the place we were born to be.
u2021-06-15-8	Congresswoman! Would you please listen to Mr. Secretary of State as he has listened to you? ! We count the time, Mr. Secretary. [[Szabó Timea: I'm listening! Dr. János Fónagy: Can't do it! András Tállai: Christmas... the president's ringing.]]
u2021-06-15-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I can take Szabó Timea's yelling, and I can take it because I understand that I would be extremely tense, too, if I had to work with Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Szabó Timea: Sleazy...]] So, what I'd like to say to you is that we accept that you continue to pursue a policy of provocation. We have reserves. [[Szabó Timea: We can see that!]] We stand by the mud, we stand by the debates, and you can't and the whole left can't inspire so much hatred for us that we don't have a stronger attachment to the place we were born to be. And whether it is economic independence, whether it is the strengthening of families, whether it is foreign policy, or the Hungarian team entering the field, we will always have the same idea: go, Hungarians! If I may make a suggestion, honourable Member, [[Szabó Timea: Then don't steal...]] Wear that national-colored scarf at least once in a while, start today. Believe me, it looks good on all of us. [[Szabó Timea: The problem is that...]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. János Fónagy: Quack, quack, quack! Dr. Pál Völner: Well, this is the show!]]
u2021-06-15-10	I believe that, with the conclusion of the dialogue, we will now continue again with the speeches before the agenda. A speech will be made by Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, LMP Group: on current affairs. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-06-15-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I never thought the Fidesz government would do anything to keep the power and the money. The government has now raised the looting of people to a master's degree, and it adds that even by endangering the future of the younger generation, it is driving them into a forced orbit. There are different ways of ruining the future of young people. Although Minister Varga, on the political side, claimed that their concern was environmental protection, the practice, the action, is in stark contrast with this statement: they unscrupulously destroy the natural environment, destroy the green surface, cement the shores of our large lakes, sell out, ignore climate protection, and I can still tell you about the crimes that you are committing against our environment and young people. But there is another element in stealing young people: loans that the government has taken up in recent years to invest in giants, such as Paks II. Or the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, or what they're planning for Fudan University, but of course you'll think you're not dealing with them, and then the young people will have to take care of the repayment, because where are you going to be in ten years' time? The fact that they are socially insensitive is not new to us, while they were raging the Covid epidemic, their own enrichment was important, they didn't care about those in need, their jobs, their incomes, pensioners, social workers, they excluded over 76,000 people from free health care. Luckily, Lőrinc Mészáros' hotels had a wealth of resources, and some also made billions through ventilators and other purchases. The universities have been blackmailed, deceived, organized into private foundations. The fact that their own people have been implanted in the Curatoriums and instead of university autonomy, direct political control is also not new. They promised huge developments to universities, but not only do universities not receive HUF 1500 billion in development funds, they also took HUF 155 billion from the available funds. From one moment to the next, about HUF 1000 billion of public assets were distributed to public-interest trust funds. The Fudan demonstration seems a little frightened, sensed rejection, and waved a referendum, saying that nothing has been decided yet. Compared to this, it quickly turned out that they were still lying: the House is going to vote today on the transfer of wealth, despite saying at the four nobles' consultations that ended on Sunday, more than 30,000 people did not ask for Chinese universities with our own money instead of the promised Student City. Of course, if it's up to you, they're gonna shove this down people's throats. But you really don't know the impossible, you can go even deeper: in 11 years, you've done absolutely nothing about pedophiles. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes, several times!]] they didn't tighten the rules, they didn't touch the sentences. We are now standing before the final vote on the draft law against pedophilia. LMP, Hungary's Green Party [[His mic's falling off.]] Agree to the rigour against pedophiles... [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The microphone can't handle this. The speaker put his microphone back on his clothes.]] I am sorry, I have fallen, and we also agree that we must deter people who commit such an unforgivable sin against our children. [[8.20]] But we don't agree with what you're doing right now. We find it unacceptable for you to knowingly and premeditatedly shampoo paedophile crimes and homosexuality. You humiliate people, brand people, destroy people's lives, maybe just to try and convince voters that the opposition is on the side of pedophiles. The LMP deeply condemns all paedophiles, but also what you want to do now. The LMP doesn't participate, so we're gonna boycott today's session. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-15-12	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-06-15-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He touched on a number of topics in his speech. Allow me to try to give each of them some kind of answer that I hope will satisfy you. On the one hand, he started with the environmental issue. You often talk about climate change, climate protection, biodiversity, environmental issues. It would be good if we could have a meaningful discussion about this in calmer circumstances, because the kind of accusations that do not contain any kind of reality content, which are regularly put before the Parliament's agenda on the subject, do not allow us to have a meaningful debate on this otherwise important issue. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You know very well that this is an important issue for the national civilian side. This is about protecting our common heritage, protecting our common environmental heritage, which is something that each of our own children, who has grandchildren, would like to pass on to their grandchildren and possibly even increase. But, honourable Member, these vehement speeches and, in principle, the constant abuse of government performance on this subject do not help us to engage in meaningful dialogue with each other. Moreover, I must say, Madam Member, that these sentences are rather untrue of you, because when the LMP, which is still trying to define itself as a green party, had the opportunity to choose to support the government's commitment to the environment, to support matters that are about protecting the environment, or to join the left choir of Gyurcsány, you did not make a professional decision, you did not make a decision in accordance with their internal identity, if any, but joined the left-wing choir for purely political reasons. They opposed everything the government put in front of the National Assembly. This is completely incomprehensible to me. They would have had the opportunity to support the parliamentary decisions relating to climate change, and they would have had the opportunity to support the bill which states that Hungary will be carbon neutral by 2050, and then you voted against it. You are the one who calls yourself a green politician and does not support Hungary going in a carbon-free direction. But it did not support the establishment of a waste management authority, nor did it support a stricter punishment for illegal littering. And it would be a long list, honourable Member, that you are only strong in speech, but when you can support something when it is possible to make a decision, you will not do so. And the same is seen when we look at where you are in power, what is happening in the case of environmental protection. Let's see what happens in Budapest! On the back of concrete concrete in Budapest. The latest solution of Mayor Gergely Christmas is to plow up the flower bed at the symbolic chain bridge roundabout and pour concrete on it to draw some bike lanes with yellow paint. And you're assisting. They're applauding. And they think that, after what he is doing in Budapest, he might even be a Prime Minister. Well, that's pretty amazing. They paint bicycle lanes where you can't see cyclists, but in return there are plugs, there is air pollution that makes Budapest's transport quite unbearable. That's what happens. Madam Member, perhaps you should tell your mayor that if he has finished installing all the beekeepers he wants to do, he could also address substantive environmental issues in Budapest. But you also mentioned the young people's cause; at least a few more words should come to that. On the one hand, it is complete false news that we would not give the higher education institutions the improvements that we promised. We will ensure this, even if your faction leader sends this false news. And it is also certain that we have not withdrawn a penny from higher education, we have regrouped funds that have not been used in the epidemiological defense, because higher education institutions have taken their part in the defence against you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-15-14	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, MEP László Varju, DK Group, asked to speak with the title of News Affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-06-15-15	I think you've seen a lot of shame in these walls of XX. Even in the century, but what's coming today is safe to compete with most of them. Today is the perfect symbol of what they've done in the last ten years. Their burning sense of mission turned out to be a betrayal of the Hungarian people by emptying parliamentary democracy, and their power was used to rob the country in the shadow of the pro-state propaganda of hatred and exclusion. It is quite clear that the people have lost their power, this is not a democracy, but a pro-state autocracy, it is not a parliament, it is not a house of the country, and today is not a parliamentary day, it is a day of shame. You said, terrified of the actions of your own man, that there was a need for a more stringent criminal law against the perpetrators of the pedophile crime. On behalf of all opposition parties, I can say that no one has contested this, there have been a lot of restrictive amendments made to this part of us. It makes me wonder that the party of pedophiles, the Fidesz who secretly rescued Gábor Kaleta, is coming up with something like this, but it might have been encouraging, in case you'd be hiding less paedophile scandals from now on. And it soon turned out that you guys have nothing against pedophiles in the same world. Their paedophile law quickly turned into an inadequate law for parliamentary debate, a completely different law for homophobic and anti-gay. You have washed pedophile criminals together with a number of sexual minorities whose only crime is that they do not belong to the majority in terms of their sexual identity or orientation. People like everybody else, they work, they pay taxes, they watch games, they raise kids, because, you know, family is family. You know perfectly well that honest Hungarian people are being treated with pedophile criminals. But what I'm telling you is that it's more of an ageing political party's mid-life scare when it rapes adolescent democracy out of fear of power and potential profit. But, you know, you said that pedophiles should be punished. I think you're going to deserve a separate box in hell, but I'm going to leave it up to you to explain your beliefs to the anti-Christian Pope, if you can blackmail this meeting like a godfather. But since we also know that you're here to tell them what you're about to say is a distraction, no matter how shameful it is, it's not important to you what you're saying, it's what you're doing, what you're trying to hide behind your back. Let's see what's in your sticky, sticky hand, what you're going to vote on here today in the shadow of a modification to the pedophile law. They will facilitate public procurement procedures for the World Exhibition in Dubai and MotoGP; they will vote in favour of the so-called investment fund, of which 500 billion forints are intended to be stolen; they will vote in favour of the housing law, so that family members and relatives of Fidesz can obtain local government property for garages, and I can still list it; and at the same time, for 17 000 billion HUF, new applications will be issued for motorway operation and construction. [[8.30]] You are the 133 bravest button pressers today, which means 133 zors will betray your country. You're going down today and you're going down tomorrow! Ladies and gentlemen. This is not a democracy, but a party-state autocracy, and today is not a parliamentary day, but a day of shame. The Democratic Coalition faction does not wish to participate in this outrage. We say no to hate and exclusion. We say no to stealing the panic-like fidesze of Hungarian public wealth, and we will not let that go! [[Noise, constant interruptions from the pro-government ranks.]] After 2022, I believe that under the leadership of Klára Dobrev, we will show the whole country what a free and democratic Hungary is like, where Parliament functions as a parliament [[Constant intervention from the pro-government ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] The laws apply to everyone, even to you. In the meantime, we'll leave this shame to you, do the day of shame if you have the stomach for it. You should talk to each other, but you should know that not only will the Good Lord be accountable to you, but also the Hungarian people. They are left alone in their decisions, and we do not wish to participate. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We're boycotting Parliament today. Thank you.
u2021-06-15-16	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond. You have the floor. [[Intercom from the pro-government line to the opposition: Call a doctor!]]
u2021-06-15-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Now that we have the third wave of the coronal virus epidemic behind us, and our lives are slowly returning to normal, we think that the opposition, the left-wing opposition, may be returning to politics on the ground of normality, but by listening to your speech from week to week, we are seeing the opposite trends. We think we have things in common that we should discuss. Re-launching Hungary is something that every Hungarian person, every Hungarian voter, is interested in, and I do not think that any left-wing Member should withdraw or withdraw from this. With regard to the re-launch of the economy, this is also what we are deciding today, because the adoption of the budget is also coming, which includes the measures necessary to bring back our life before the epidemic. Part of the decision will be taken to extend the temporary measures that have helped Hungarian people, families, businesses in distress over the past year and a half, such as wage subsidies, such as credit moratoriums, if I can bring them here. It is sad to hear that you do not consider this important and do not consider it a measure to be supported. In addition, it will be decided, for example, to reduce the VAT on new dwellings and to ensure the financial conditions of the renovation programme. We believe that all Hungarians deserve to live in their own apartment, and it is sad that we are hearing the opposite from the representative of a party that is supposed to be left-wing, in principle socially sensitive. What is still to be decided in this House today, for example, is the financial basis for an unprecedented increase in the wages of doctors. It is quite amazing that in the midst of a coronal virus epidemic, one of the lessons of which is that all the states in the human sectors have to invest very seriously, this step will not be supported by you, but will not provide the financial basis for this. Of course, I understand, because when you were supposed to handle the previous crisis, you followed a completely opposite strategy, you took the money out of the human sectors, education and health care, you closed hospitals, you sent doctors away, and you took a month's wages from the workers. So unfortunately, it can be said that this policy is nothing more than the continuation of your policy before 2010. In addition, we will rebuild the 13th month pension, which is also included in the budget that the Parliament is voting on. And that this is not important to you personally or to Ferenc Gyurcsány and the left, I can see that very, very well. It was important to take it away from the Hungarian people, so when you had to vote to take away the 13th month pension, you were here, pressing the button like an enthusiastic soldier. It seems today that the financial decision to rebuild the second element of the 13th month's pension is not as important to you. We are introducing income tax exemptions for young people under the age of 25. This is also a step that many governments could have taken since the regime changed, but none of them, all of which came from your political family, were thinking about tax increases. The essence of left-wing philosophy is that the left-wing government and then left-wing politics know better what to spend their own money on. We think that every person should be given a job, so that people can earn their own money, and they themselves have free control of it. We don't want to tell them what to spend their money on, they can decide for themselves. That's what the tax reduction policy is all about, which you've been opposed to for years. On the other hand, what happens on the left? There's a pre-election clown going on, and in connection with the defense against the coronal virus, they're gonna cross where they can. For you, the attack on the government and the campaign against the government are more important than the re-launching of people's lives and the economy, and nothing else is important to you except to put such a Patymkin alliance together and prepare for the return of Ferenc Gyurcsány to power in 22 years. But the Hungarian people can see through the situation, and we will not allow it. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-15-18	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, Member of the MSZP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on the topic of current issues. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-06-15-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Joining with my fellow opposition Members before me, I would like to make it clear at the outset that, with regard to today's vote and today's parliamentary day, we see that you are giving only what is the essence of their policy: cynicism, villainy, hatred, state-controlled corruption. Of course, there would be a need for me to explain this in my entire five-minute speech and send you to your sorrows, but let it be enough that the Hungarian Socialist Party does not participate in this today, and the vote will be boycotted. However, it is the 15th, ladies and gentlemen, and thanks to your members of the government sitting here today, the decommissioning ban will be lifted in the area of law enforcement, in the life of the police, in the execution of sentences, in the lives of firefighters and disaster protection colleagues, this is unfortunately an important day. After all, the union has made it clear in its public survey that about 70 percent of the population would be discharged if they could, and of course it is not to be understood that they will be discharged tomorrow morning, although 4-5 thousand people will still be expected to leave. This shows, and this lesson the government refuses to grasp and admit that the stock does not feel the damned appreciation of what propaganda is about, they are simply fed up with the way they are treated. It is no coincidence, since six years ago there was an average 50 percent wage increase, but the Home Secretary himself acknowledged that this had been completely absorbed in recent years. Although they bought new cars and made technical purchases, people are ignored, and if, at some point, there is really the toughest Soviet-type police leadership, the drivers are relatively well paid, but they can be fired at any time without justification, and the executive staff is trampled by everyone. Of course, they have in common that both of them are expected to keep their mouths shut, be quiet, and stop thinking. You can see that in the mood of the file. And, of course, this is accompanied by the fact that, let's say, a starting salary is barely worth 200 thousand HUF net, while they have also taken away their service pension to the shame of Europe or the world. There's a whole day's worth of what's wrong. I asked for the floor today to tell you what the solution is, because next year there will be a change of government and a change of era. Not only do we trust that, but I think that the majority of people do, too. And in particular, I deeply believe that under the leadership of Gergely Christmas, we can also implement the programme of reparation, which will specifically affect law enforcement workers, those in the area of law enforcement. I would like to send them three points, and I would also like to send them a message that, unlike the Fidesz, we do not have what is wrong with the government or the country. We don't want to see any new mechanics in the next year, because we're preparing for a government, and we're going to need every professional after next spring. [[8.40]] We'd like to send them three points in the first round that are on everyone. One. They will get their service pension back; there is no other foolish country that will take it away from professionals and force them to serve. We're gonna give it back to the underprivileged servants, we're gonna cancel the 15 percent deduction, we're gonna thank them for their lives' work. Let them work with the pension, and we'll give them their retirement status back. Second, there will be a new salary system. This Hst., for everyone to understand, I say briefly, the way it is, must be thrown out. It is necessary to set a completely new basis for the calculation of salaries, learning, training and the work carried out to determine the basis, nothing else. You need a predictable, objective course, where you don't have to be chief commissioner to make good money, but you can see in your own position that you can earn multiple times as much as when you're equipped in decades. And in the third point, this madness that you're doing to control the control, the internal wiretap, surveillance, keeping the stock in check, we're gonna wipe it out with a feather stroke. What we would like to make clear beyond this is that we will give firefighters their names, not only their professional autonomy, but also their professional autonomy, and finally, after the development of detention facilities and infrastructure, those working in prison will be the first and most important aspect of the government. Finally, we know that we hear that every three years they want to pay six months' salary instead of paying their jobs with honor every month. We also hear that the Prime Minister wants to give this to you next January. Good. Give it to the people, this is the first step of redemption, but not on 1 January, Mr Secretary, but now on 1 July, if you do not want to be discharged in bulk in this area. Thank you for listening.
u2021-06-15-20	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontrat, Minister of State, responds. You have the floor.
u2021-06-15-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Good morning to you. I regret that many of these actions did not come at a price when, between 2002-2010, you were political advisor to the then Minister of Interior or Minister of Police for several years, and when more than 45 thousand young pensioners retired, of which nearly 25,000 people left the Ministry of Interior personnel, police officers, firefighters and other professional staff. You didn't care at the time about raising salaries. Let me quote, I remember, in February 2003, I may even be able to say the day in which the police were in a position to provide financial services. The then Chief Constable of Veszprém County said at the meeting of the county assembly when the public safety report was discussed that if there were no other means left, and there would not be enough resources for the operation of the county headquarters staff to function effectively, he could turn to the ultimate instrument of the soldiers of the end of the castle, you know, Congressman: to his knees and to prayer! It's sad, that's what characterized your government. That's what he described. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] Mr President, I have also heard you say that there has been no increase in the wages of professional staff, and that the course programme we introduced on 1 July 2001 has been completely suspended and terminated. The housing allowance has been abolished, the salaries have not been raised, and they have supported the discharge of professional workers, they have created a situation, honourable Member, and you have played a responsible role in this. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: I was a university student!]] He was a political advisor to the then Minister of the Interior or Minister of Police. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame on you!]] And as far as Soviet-type police management is concerned, I would like to reject, on behalf of the police, this lying claim, this outrage. I think it seems to me that you are grasping every means to gain power, political power, and you do not know any restrictions, no barriers. But to attack the police, the police, this way, now that we're fighting a three-way battle, when the police are protecting the southern border, when they're maintaining Homeland Security, and when they're involved or involved in the fight against the virus, it doesn't matter to you, you're attacking the police, and you're trying to create a situation to weaken it. As far as the survey you referred to, honourable Member, is concerned, it cannot be considered credible or representative, which anyone could fill out every time. And as for the wave of decommissioning, I don't know what you want. Do you really want thousands of policemen off the field, honourable Member? ♪ I think ♪ [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Did I say that with my mouth? Did I say that?]] that this is not in the interests of the Hungarian people. It is in the interests of the Hungarian people that the police are strong and receive the necessary support for their operation. In 2010, Congressman, we promised when, after your eight-year governance, we took political responsibility to restore order in Hungary and create security. At that time, there were nearly 450 thousand known crimes in that year, and now this number has fallen to a third, honourable Member. So we reduced it to a third, thanks to the police, and I would like to thank the entire staff of the Hungarian police, starting with the national commissioner, all the professional staff and all the personnel of the law enforcement agency managed by the Ministry of Interior for their effective service in the interests of the safety of the Hungarian people. The government has already provided, will continue to provide, and will also provide the necessary resources for operation for 2022 with today's budget vote. Let's see what we've done. We would like to pay for the three-year arms money at the beginning of 2022. In 2015, we introduced a new career program. On average, we raised the salary of professional staff by 50 percent, introduced performance benefits from 2016, provided 12 billion forints of resources, and introduced housing support. From 1 January 2017, we introduced the system of law enforcement health damage care. That means the Hst. are entitled to regular salaries five years before retirement age without having to perform services. Honourable Congressman, We have provided the resources necessary for the operation of the police and the professional staff, and you are just talking about it and demanding it. You're not authentic. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-15-22	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group also applied for a speech before the agenda:. The government is experiencing the future of young Hungarians! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-06-15-23	Mr President, Dear House, He tells you all about the government's support policy, that, for the construction of Balaton, for people who do not need a ministerial salary, it is possible to realize a grant of HUF 10 million, no matter how uncomfortable it is for you, but in a typical situation of living for a young Hungarian or young family, we can see that, according to statistics, in the poorest, lowest income ratio, the monthly income can take up to 40-50 percent of either the cost of housing or, in a luckier case, if the bank loan could be reached at least somehow by that young person, then the rate of monthly repayment. We can also see that this unfairly high proportion cripples family budgets and proves that housing chaos is raging in Hungary. Over the last 11 years, the number of apartments available for rent has decreased steadily. In the market segment, we saw all this on rent prices, and the range of apartments available is constantly decreasing. The rents have tripled in some parts of the city. The Government of Hungary was idle and did nothing on this issue. The number of social-based apartments has also decreased steadily, as Hungary's Government has not spent a penny in the last 11 years on an organised, national-based rental program in order to provide affordable housing for those who wish to start a family and have children, but cannot pay market-based rents from month to month. Meanwhile, Hungary's Government has also abolished state support for housing savings, taking away from many young people the opportunity to save together for a CSOK or a bank loan in a supported form over many years. We understand that now, in the answer, we will also welcome back the mention of a previous better idea with a slightly reduced age, which is the sia-freeness of people under 25. [[8.50]] However, if you look at the average monthly rate that the government can benefit the young people concerned, and on the other hand how much housing costs are taken away, you can see the 27 percent EU record VAT, unfortunately, the world champion's burden on child-rearing articles, and think about how child-rearing in Europe is best taxed here, from 27 percent to the pacifier bottle, built into all kinds of products. We haven't talked about the brutal effects of weak forints yet, because once again, in the case of families raising children, when a stroller, if a child's dress is to be bought, the effect of weak forints is constantly expensive for every purchase. Without exaggeration, this is a thousand billion-dollar special tax, which is allowed by the conscious policy of the Government of Hungary to prevail on families in a negative direction. We could also talk about the humiliatingly low wages, Viktor Orbán's confession that his distant vision is the 200 000 minimum wage that Hungary would still be the third, fourth lowest in terms of the whole European Union, adding that by the time we achieve this, other countries with the lowest minimum wage could increase the same minimum benefit by the time we reach it, so we would not even be sure of our 3, 4th place at the back. Meanwhile, Hungary's Government talks about building a student city after 11 years of government. Well, what if it's not a confession? ! After eleven years they promise Student City and instead they bring me here, import a Chinese university, built with Chinese migrant workers, with Hungarian taxpayers' money. We are therefore amazed at how they give up, how they eat up the Hungarian future on the government side, as each of these five or six items brutally complicates the possibility of starting a life for young Hungarians. It is no coincidence that many people have been forced not to seek prosperity in their homeland, but in Western Europe over the past decade, and it is no coincidence that the number of Hungarians is catastrophic. A public-based housing scheme is therefore needed to ensure that anyone who cannot afford to buy a self-owned property immediately obtains affordable housing. You have to see, the government has to face the situation. The person who stands up now must explain why the number of apartments in Hungary has fallen dramatically, explaining why this housing cataclysm has developed, explaining why the state support for housing savings has been suppressed in a treasonous manner by this government, and explaining why, with the 27 percent VAT, the consciously poorly held forint, they are taking away the multiples of what they seem to give away from Hungarian families. One last sentence: their election promise for next year will be 500-600 billion forints for families, and in their budget proposal on paper they intend to collect 500-600 billion forints more in the form of taxes from Hungarian families next year. So they try to campaign with a zero-sum game, while eating up the Hungarian future. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-06-15-24	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Róbert Zsigó State Secretary will respond.
u2021-06-15-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You talked about apartments, families, raising children, emigration, a lot of things, and you said that we had to explain things. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right!]] Mr. Congressman, do you know who needs to explain things? For you. You know, your current boss, I know you're not gonna like this. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You've been ruling for 11 years, my friend! Eleven years!]] But what did Ferenc Gyurcsány have to do with young people? Because the title of your comment is that the government is reviving the future of young Hungarians. Do you know what Ferenc Gyurcsány said, your current boss, the one on whose list you will be listed? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Do you hear me?! You're weak!]] He told the young people that they could get out of here. And you're talking about emigration, Congressman. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You've been ruling for 11 years!]] And he wants us to explain it. [[Z. Karpat is consulting with Dániel Farkas Sándor. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Congressman, I would like to ask you to explain how you can work with Ferenc Gyurcsány on this matter. Do you know what the left-wingers did, your current bosses or owners when they governed? In the last year of left-wing governance, 150 thousand young people aged 15-29 were unemployed. Socialist governments abolished the former home creation system and abolished the interest-supported loan, which, in turn, pushed families raising children into foreign exchange loans. The socialist governments, your current masters, were the ones who wanted to introduce tuition fees. And to talk not only about what they wanted, but also about what they were planning: you are working with those who now want to introduce 30 percent personal income tax. [[Dr. Pál Völner, Z. Kárpát, in consultation with Sándor Farkas: He doesn't care!]] You've joined forces with those of your current bosses who want to raise 19 percent corporate tax. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What are you talking about?!]] Do you think this is gonna make more money? Do you think young people will make a better living from this? [[Csaba Dömötör: Answers you! Dániel Z. Carpathian: When I can respond! You'd answer at least one question.]] Do you think this will make Hungary better, honourable Member? The fact is that since 2010, the government has been constantly expanding the scope of support and opportunities that help young people to learn, start a family, create a home, learn a language, and find their place. We have taken a number of such steps. You, Congressman, are now calling on us to see how young people can get a home and a place to live; now that we have launched the biggest home-building programme of all time from 1 January 2021, Congressman. In case you haven't heard, I'll tell you that from 1 January onwards, new-built real estate will sell its VAT [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: That was not the question, my friend!]] It's down from 27 percent to 5 percent. If CSOK is used for this, they do not even have to pay the remaining 5% VAT. If, as of 1 January, a couple or a family raising a child before having a child buys a new or used apartment using a CSOK, they shall be exempt entirely from the payment of a 4-percent acquisition fee. From 1 January 2021, the state will take over half the cost of renovating their existing homes from families with at least one child to HUF 3 million, and those who do not have enough self-reliance to do so can use the home renovation loan up to HUF 6 million, up to a maximum of 10 years, with a interest rate of 3 per cent. From 1 January 2021 we also help those who cannot move away from their parents, but want to live with them, because they can also wear the maximum 10 percent CSOK for attic construction. Mr President, yes, in the next budget, in the 2022 budget, which we hope you will vote and support today. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I don't!]] We are introducing a total personal income tax exemption for young people under the age of 25. This provides opportunities for about one million young people, helping high school students and students in higher education who work a lot in addition to their studies, helping young people working in student cooperatives because they can get higher hourly wages and help those who do not study, but want to go to the labour market, because they can earn more competitive wages, and they can earn a better living from this wage. Mr. Congressman, what you're doing is a hypocrite. You ask us to account for what your masters have done. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oh, you're pathetic!]] in the period before 2010, and together with you, they want to do so after the next elections. Honourable Member, you have always hindered the welfare of young people, and we are constantly working with all our tools to help young people learn, start a family, create a home, learn a language, find a place to live. You're fooling young people. Once again, you're standing by them in words. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-15-26	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Harrach, Member of the KDNP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title "What is behind the numbers." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-06-15-27	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to the comments before the previous agenda, please excuse me for changing your tone, because this is an important issue. The issue that is given a great deal of emphasis in the budget of 22 and which is obviously not the opinion of the opposition than that of the government side. At least we can listen to this if it's not appropriate. Let's look behind the budget figures a little bit, because there's always political intentions there, and even a deeper picture of people and society. The item I would like to speak about now receives a very large amount of support, which shows the importance of the issue to the budget creators. Next year, HUF 2778 billion falls on family support, nearly half a billion more than it was this year. We are talking about 5 percent of GDP, and this is also a significant amount in European comparison. [[9.00]] The family as an institution is important to the creators of the budget. Let's see why family matters. For the child, because of his safety, he grows to be a healthy adult. For parents, exercising responsibility together and giving a sample to the child, they can fulfil their role. And, of course, it is important for society to have a family because it is a guarantee of the future of the nation. And then let's look at the question of what kind of support is important to the government, and here is the important difference that can be seen between the two sides. The opposition has recently heard a statement about this regarding family allowance as a primary support element, which is a type of aid under subject-law. And traditionally, during the first Orbán government and now for the last ten years, the government side has placed the family tax relief first, i.e. a labour income-related subsidy, which, as well as the previous family allowance, has an impact on the individual and society. Let's see what this is. I must put it ahead: I am not anti-aid, because aid has a major role to play in its place, it is difficult to solve the crisis without aid. On the other hand, if someone arranges their life for this, it has a serious personal and social impact. Because if I want to express myself gently, then aid is not an incentive to work, or even an unneeded way of life. On the other hand, the impact of the tax relief on the individual is that it leads to work as an income-based support and thus serves the work-based society. So these two solutions, both in their social impact and even in their impact on the individual, make us consider the purpose of a healthy personality and a healthy society important, and therefore it is important for us consistently to have support for work incomes, family tax relief. I still have time to mention a few elements of the relevant headings of the budget. I would add that in ten years, this tax relief left over HUF 3000 billion to the families. We should also mention the reimbursement of children's children, which is projected to be HUF 500-600 billion. We also need to talk about the absence of young people and the 13th month pension of the elderly, not to mention a wide range of home creation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-15-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2021-06-15-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The title of his speech before the agenda is that what is behind the figures, and indeed you are right, Mr President, we must always look at the impact that the decisions we make have on society and, in this case, on families raising children. It is important to remember where we started and where we came to this day. Before 2010, Hungarian families were in a difficult situation, and I would like to give you just a few examples: the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments abolished the home creation system, thus eliminating the possibility for Hungarian families to have access to their homes in an appropriate way, leading them to a foreign currency loan trap. The family tax relief of one and two children was abolished at the time, and the duration of the child was reduced. We can say that in 2010, Hungarian families and families raising children were in a vulnerable position. Our basic principle since 2010 has been a family-friendly turnaround in Hungary, so that everyone who can and wants can find the right job, and from this work they can respectfully support their family, raise their children. The government's goal is to make it easier to start a family, have children and raise children in Hungary. We have taken a number of measures to achieve this. For example, between 2010 and 2022, the amount of aid for baby care increased more than double, and in approximately two weeks, from 1 July onwards, the amount of the infant care premium increased from 70% to 100 percent of gross salary. With this, mothers earn more income while raising their children than they had before their net salary. The maximum amount of ged has doubled since 2010. We have introduced the family tax relief that some a million families can now use to help a million families. You have also spoken about home creation, let me have a few sentences about this: indeed, from 1 January we have started Hungary's largest home creation programme, and I have also had the opportunity to say this to Mr Z. Kárpat. In this context, we reduced the VAT on newly built properties from 27 percent to 5 percent. If you use a CSOK for this, you can also claim this 5% VAT back. For example, we help families who want to renovate their existing homes. With half the amount of renovation we can support them with a maximum of HUF 3 million, we will refund this. And those who lack self-esteem can also benefit from a preferential home renovation loan. We introduced the CSOK, we introduced the 10 million HUF baby shower support, we gave car shopping support to large families, and compared to 2010 we increased the number of cradle seats by one and a half times higher than in 2010. As a result, we can say very carefully, very gently, that there are encouraging signs in family policy, because since the beginning of family-friendly governance, children's desire has increased by more than 20 percent. The number of marriages is at a 40-year peak, and the number of divorces is at a low 60-year peak in Hungary today. Just one example: in the last year of left-wing governance, in 2010, the least marriage was concluded in Hungary. This also shows why a family - friendly turn of events was needed. And today, the Parliament is voting on the 2022 budget, in which families also play an important role, as next year's budget is increasing opportunities for more and more families. Next year, the amount of support for families will be nearly tripled compared to the 2010 budget. Some examples, as you said, are: we will give full personal income tax exemption to young people under the age of 25, and next year we will continue to rebuild the 13th month pension, which the left has taken away earlier, and in February next year the elderly will receive two weeks' extra benefits. We also help single, single-parent families, as we increase the upper limit of advance alimony to 30 percent of the minimum wage, double their orphanage, and, as you said, children's families will be able to get their personal income tax paid in 2021 next year, given that they may have been the most affected by the coronal virus epidemic. In addition, we will, of course, continue to create homes next year and continue to allow children to eat for free. It can be said that before 2010, the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments abolished family support, took it away from the families, and since 2010 we have been constantly increasing the support of families, and we are also expected by Hungarian families in 2022. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-15-30	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. Dear Parliament, Mr János Halász, Fidesz Group, also asked for a speech before the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-06-15-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Together in Hungary, we broke the third wave of the pandemic, and because of the successful vaccination campaign, we can slowly get our old lives back. While there are strict restrictions in most European countries, we Hungarians are free to go to restaurants, concerts and games. The most important task ahead of us now is to restart the Hungarian economy. This fresh start and the re-launch of the economy can only be achieved with the support of the Hungarian people. Therefore, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán announced another national consultation last week. [[9.10]] The Fidesz fraction agrees that people should be asked about strengthening families, raising the minimum wage, increasing tax incentives and the credit moratorium on the start-up of the economy. It is also important to see that we are currently living in an era of epidemics and migrations. Each epidemiological expert agrees that the total defeat of the coronal virus may take years and may be expected to develop new mutants. We therefore support the inclusion of epidemiological issues in the national consultation. At the same time, the other danger, illegal migration, remains with us. Unfortunately, the number of illegal cross-border attempts is rising again to a worrying extent. This is supported by the police's public records, but that's what the Secret Service reported yesterday at the National Security Committee meeting. That is why it is important to ask the opinion of the Hungarian people again on migration, illegal migration. These are all serious issues that concern our daily lives, so we ask people to fill in and send back the national consultation sheets. We want our decisions, future government decisions, to be as agreed as possible, and to be on the safest possible footing. We need points of agreement, even if the left is constantly attacking this institution. Let us remember that so far Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has launched ten national consultations, but there have been none among them that the left side has not stepped on. They even attacked the consultation on families. They were on the left, who openly said that they see Hungary's future in migrants and not in support of Hungarian families. The same left attacked the epidemiological measures and the experts involved in the defence. In fact, they conducted a vicious, inhuman, anti-vaccination campaign and continue to do so until today. They haven't lied to you right now. The left is attacking the national consultation, from DK to Jobbik. They consider it unnecessary to ask people's opinions. Unlike them, we believe that national consultation is a good, proven tool. This will help the government and us, Parliament, to adapt decisions to the Hungarian people's ideas. We can remember that already in February 2011 we launched a national consultation on the creation of a new, solid constitution. Nearly a million people filled it out, sent back their views on the future new Fundamental Law, hundreds of thousands of people felt that it was worth using this new form of expression for the first time and wanted to participate in a joint solution to the great challenges facing the country. Such a task, a common national issue, was the freezing of energy prices skyrocketed by the left, which was preceded by the social national consultation, so that we could also succeed in reducing the costs. In 2015, at the beginning of the migration crisis, the national consultation sheets on immigration and terrorism were completed by over a million people. The vast majority of Hungarian people have given a clear mandate to build the border fence and create a legal border closure. That's how we were able to protect our country from the flood of migration. In 2017, the national consultation on the first Soros Plan was also successful. Again, the Hungarians told Brussels that they did not ask for the resettlement of migrants in any form. Dear House, We also expect the National Assembly and the Government to be able to make timeless decisions based on the opinion of the people. We ask everyone to fill in and return the national consultation questionnaires. Every Hungarian opinion counts. The Fidesz fraction therefore fully supports the Government in launching the latest national consultation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-15-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, responds. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-06-15-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We listened to the leaders of the left-wing parties, their main speakers today, at the end of a session that was fully defined by the epidemic, the fight against the coronal virus. At the same time, there is one thing that has been left out of all the left-wing parties' speeches: to thank the people whose work has helped us overcome the coronal virus epidemic. There was hatred, there was mud throwing, there was threats, splashing, all sorts of aggressive manifestations, there was only one thing missing at the end of our session to talk about the outbreak, and especially about those doctors, those nurses, social workers, cops, soldiers, civil servants who had to do their job to fight the epidemic. Because the left didn't contribute anything, he didn't even want to give the government the authority to make quick decisions overnight, and when we finally beat the epidemic here through our joint efforts, through our joint work and the vaccines, they don't have a single word at the end of the session, they're just talking about boycotting, exodus, opposition to government. What did they use this period for? Here in Parliament, a decision was submitted to ban two vaccines from China and Russia. They did not want to bring new vaccines to Hungary, they wanted to ban the existing ones. In Brussels, they did not lobby to bring more vaccines from Brussels, but lobbyed for Brussels to ban vaccines from China or Russia. And what were they doing in the capital? He was a test dog. The money that was available from György Soros or elsewhere migrated to companies belonging to the interests of former socialist ministers in an instant. The world before 2010 has returned. And what did Imre László, the health politician on the left, say after we successfully defeated the coronal virus epidemic and our hospitals survived? That 45 percent of hospitals should be closed. How could we defend ourselves and the hospitals against the coronal virus epidemic? Where could people's lives have been protected if László Imre and his left-wing plan, Ferenc Gyurcsány's plan, were to be implemented and 45 percent of hospitals would be closed? Because in addition to the visit fee that Ferenc Gyurcsány defended here, to pay a visit fee and a hospital daily allowance for every person hospitalized for a coronal virus, there would be hardly a hospital, since they would reduce their number by nearly half, and none of the parties on the left said that they would disagree with this plan. Almost a week ago, Imre László told me his ideas, and the others were silent. There's one more thing I've noticed in the last few days. When the autumn speech came up here in Parliament, then suddenly all the goodies have their shoelaces. 'Cause everybody starts looking down the bench. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes several times.]] Along with Peter James and everyone else. Suddenly, when it turns out to be the autumn speech that brought Jobbik to life to end the era of Ferenc Gyurcsány, they would help Ferenc Gyurcsány back into power. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Well, at a time like this, everyone has to tie shoes or text under the bench, because they can't look up, they just blow their eyes off, because that's when they have a conscience. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Pathetic! Where were you between 2006 and 2010? The president's ringing the bell.]] We have listened to the speakers on the left: they have not said anything new in 11 years. For 11 years each session has always been the same record that Hungary has a dictatorship, and the government's actions will not strengthen the Hungarian economy. While there have been elections since then, where the left-wing parties have been largely rejected by voters, and fortunately, since it was not an epidemic period, Hungarian trade traffic has increased, wages have increased, the Hungarian economy has been able to grow, while the government has been able to reduce taxes. That is why there is nothing left for the opposition, for the left, but provocation. We see: Péter Jakab is sitting here in Parliament as the reincarnation of the predecessor Novák. Since he has nothing to say, he wants to provoke me with all kinds of violations. It occurred to me that in one of my childhood's favorite tales, the Grabowski Mickey Mouse's 13th reincarnation, and, well, Peter James, it seems to be the first reincarnation of the Foreman of Novak. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] It's not a Guardian type, it's a Gyurcsány-compatible reincarnation, but the point is the same: to ignore the rules, to deliberately break the rules, and to draw the media's attention to myself. The same recipe: The Hungarian Guard recipe of the predecessor of Novák and Péter Jakab's recipe for the Gyurcsány Guard are the same, based only on provocation. Ladies and gentlemen, There will be an amendment in Parliament today that protects children from pedophile offenders on the one hand, more effectively than any other legislation so far, more stringent than any other legislation, and, on the other hand, records that education is a matter for parents, and that no one else should interfere with this in kindergarten or elementary school. And this is the point that makes the Hungarian left withdraw from the vote, because they want to deny the parents the right to choose to raise their children, and they do not trust him to do so in some institutional system for some kind of re-education program developed by an organization supported by George Soros, but the parents themselves want to define it. We have to protect parents, parents have the right to determine their children's education. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[9.20]]
u2021-06-15-34	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, The 2013 CLXXVII Act on transitional and empowering provisions relating to the entry into force of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code follows. a joint debate on the proposal to amend law in an exceptional procedure. The government referral is T/16565. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, a speech will be made by the author. Before giving the floor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a total period of 25 minutes for the opening speech, for your further speech in the debate and for the presentation of the possible closing phrase. I give the floor to Mr Tamás János Schanda, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-06-15-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The future of universities is the future of Hungary, which is why one of the most important national building and national strategy programmes of the coming years is the renewal of Hungarian higher education. In the competition for quality knowledge, only nations whose universities are able to respond adequately to the challenges of the changing world order can succeed. Hungary will also be as successful as the young Hungarians are successful. Therefore investing in knowledge, investing is not only an opportunity, but also a moral obligation. Dear Parliament, The vast majority of public-interest trust foundations established are responsible for maintaining the model-changed universities. At the same time, there are some who take on training, talent, research and cultural tasks from the state. Their outstanding social and value-creating role is also clearly enshrined in the Fundamental Law. With this proposal, we make it easier for private companies to join the foundations, so they can be active contributors and shapers to strengthen Hungarian higher education. This will further strengthen the financial autonomy of higher education. With the planned changes, by removing obstacles to own-initiative asset allocation, university-business cooperation to increase the competitiveness of higher education can also be promoted more effectively. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you. [[Dr. László Pósán and András Tállai applaud.]]
u2021-06-15-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that you have 22 minutes for further speeches. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman László B. Nagy, rapporteur for the Legislative Committee. Here you go.
u2021-06-15-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 June 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2013 CLXXVII on transitional and empowering provisions relating to the entry into force of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code. T/16565. Bill No. 1. The summary report was adopted by 23 votes in favour on the basis of the rules of the exceptional procedure, 7 against and 2 abstentions. There was no substantive debate in the debate other than to raise an explanatory question, to which the Secretary of State gave a satisfactory answer. I call on this House to support the proposal accordingly. Thank you for listening.
u2021-06-15-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. I would like to inform you that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent representatives have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, key speakers will present the group's position in the time frame available to the political groups. I give the floor to Mr László Pósán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-06-15-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to say very briefly that the proposal which aims to enable private companies to support the operation of public foundations, Hungarian young people and Hungarian higher education is supported by the faction with a full chest width, and I think that we may all agree on this goal. So I ask the House and the other factions to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[János Schanda applauds.]]
u2021-06-15-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-06-15-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Well, this item has been very quickly pianized here, both in terms of the Secretary of State's exposé and in terms of the speaker's speech, and it is clear that yesterday at the TAB meeting, this item was very fast. What should I say, it is not a simple text, these hard four and a half lines or almost five lines, which appeared here in this amendment in this bill, and it is obviously necessary to interpret the reasons why this could have come before this House, especially with such urgency, with this kind of procedure. And what we need to see is that this fits into a series that we've been constantly seeing from Fidesz-KDNP for the last 11 years. It was said here, and Mr Schanda said here too, and at yesterday's TAB meeting he said that this is in the best interests of Hungarian young people, and Fidesz's lead speaker said that it is in the interest of young people to contribute financially to public-interest trust foundations, and this rule strengthens this. And he also said here that, in his view, everyone in Hungary naturally agrees that these grants will be easier to realise in the future in order to make the future of young people happy. So far, if this is what the bill is about, we would agree perfectly, and indeed we would support it, and I do not think there would be a party in Hungary either on the opposition side or on the government side that would not fully agree. However, the problem here is that there is constant public withdrawal, the essence of which is that public money is constantly becoming private money through certain channels. This is how it happens, such an opportunity is given to the privateization of universities and the outsourcing of universities into public foundations, in which, of course, we can see that the Boards will decide, the Boards will decide on the wealth that has been accumulated there, where only the governing parties have delegated people, and they must have put loyal, loyal people in these curators, they will use these assets, they will decide on it, and no one will have a say in any form whatsoever. That's what happened in the past, and that's what's happening now. Part of this is true that they are now trying to cover up the fact that we are now involving private companies in order to make a deposit. Obviously, we have seen this system developed in sport, when taxes could be nicely grouped into sport, and then they tried to use it in a way or another. Obviously, there were people who used it properly, some who didn't use it properly. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said that these funds will lose their public money character when they are paid for separately for the sports association. Well, that's what happens here, too, in these cases, that the government and the two-thirds majority try to change the public money into private money. And that in this one paragraph or in this legislative amendment, where we are not theoretically talking about state money and not about state money, we are talking about private individuals and legal persons, and the problem here is that the issue of liability is removed by this paragraph, which means that, where appropriate, when a company, which can be state-owned, but is a legal person, pays a certain amount to such a public trust fund, even if this is not done in an appropriate way, this will be legitimized. [[9.30]] So, where appropriate, it will not be possible to prosecute the head of the company when he has paid such money, it will not be possible to talk about infidel treatment or care, because it can be explained that according to the new paragraph of the Civil Code, he has done so entirely legally, because such a section on the transitional provisions of the Civil Code allowed him and legalized it, so there cannot be any kind of lawlessness here. So what I see here is that the exclusion of liability, the fact that it is not possible to hold people who have spent that amount in an inadequate way, and here we will be talking about billions and tens of billions in the future, the danger is enormous. Bringing in such an enabling rule, especially when Hungary has gained a very high ranking in the world ranking for corruption perception, and we are now unfortunately 19th in the European Union in 2012, and today, in 2020-2021, we are the last in the European Union ranking for corruption perception, in a dead race with Bulgaria and Romania. I think that Hungarian public life has entered a stage that really needs to be changed. We have always said that this could be changed by setting up an anti-corruption prosecutor's office, joining the European Public Prosecutor's Office could change, but what we see is that there is no government will. When we get a series of laws here, before the Parliament, which will continue to strengthen people's confidence that corruption will rise to even higher levels in this country, what should an opposition politician think when they put legislation on the transitional provisions of such a civil code on the table for us, which, in our opinion, will open up the door that will strengthen corruption in Hungary, even wider. It is true that Hungary can no longer fall below the rankings of corruption perceptions, at least not in the European Union, but we can still go lower in the world ranking, because there are still African countries or Central American countries behind us. I am very sorry that this is the government's position. I think that the rules on spending money should be constantly tightened, in particular the rules on spending public money should be tightened up. This should be changed, making accountability much more stringent, and this rule, which we are discussing today, will only greatly reduce the possibility of accountability. Anyone who has been here in the Hungarian Parliament since 2010 sees the efforts of the Hungarian government and Fidesz-KDNP to continuously receive them dribbling in tiny steps, sometimes taking greater steps to convert public funds into private money, and see how billions, tens of billions and hundreds of billions go from the Hungarian budget and elsewhere. I think that this legislation will also further expand the possibility of corruption in Hungary, and therefore, in our opinion, it is not eligible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-15-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches if someone wishes to live with it. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak in a normal time frame. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey enters the room and takes the place of his representatives.]] I think that if we wait a moment, I can give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, who wishes to speak from the KDNP Group. Mr. Congressman, if you are prepared, you will have the floor in the Hungarian Parliament. Here you go.
u2021-06-15-43	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). Act No. 5 of the Act states that public-service trust foundations, independent of the current government, also provide society with the achievement of their public-interest objectives, which are of particular importance to society, in the form of private law. Therefore, these entities play a prominent role in the Hungarian legal system, and thus their long-term stability is a requirement arising from the constitutional principle of legal certainty. The requirement for trust foundations is also to promote the survival of our nation and the common good. The vast majority of public-service trust foundations undertake training, talent management, research and cultural tasks from the Hungarian State to maintain the model-shifting universities. The 2013 CLXXVII on transitional and delegation provisions relating to the entry into force of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code submitted the other day. The bill on the amendment of the law also allows economic organisations to support the future of Hungarian youth through foundations of public interest. The planned changes, by removing obstacles to own-initiative asset allocation, will also make it more effective to encourage university and corporate cooperation to increase the competitiveness of higher education. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary faction supports the bill on the basis of the above. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-15-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-06-15-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you for the supporting sentences. I would like to make clear to Congressman Gyüre the purpose of the bill, because it does not seem to have been fully achieved in the past. Let us note that this proposal is not about individuals, but about private individuals. So let it be clear: it is not about public money, but it is about private money, private money that is financed for public purposes, and it does not provide for taxes and tax amendments. I hope that I have been able to resolve all your doubts about the amendment, as you have made false allegations. And if I have failed to eliminate it, I regret that the left-wing Jobbik does not support the issue of Hungarian youth. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-15-46	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place today. Dear Parliament, Next up is XC 2020 on Hungary's central budget for 2021. a joint debate on the proposal to amend law in an exceptional procedure. The government referral is T/16566. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the speech by the author will take place. Before I give the floor, I would like to inform the Deputy Minister that he has a total time frame of 25 minutes for the opening speech, for his further speech in the debate and for the presentation of the possible closing phrase. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2021-06-15-47	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The pandemic has faced a number of challenges for the economy, companies, employers. Many programmes are launched to help businesses overcome difficulties, challenges and to keep jobs. In order to re-establish the economy, it is therefore appropriate to further expand the scope of aid schemes already available. In the context of enlargement, funding for the Investment and Development Goals can also be achieved. In addition, in support of this, this proposal introduces a new State counter-guarantee programme, which can be achieved regardless of the size of enterprises. With regard to the counter-guarantee, the State provides for a state guarantee of 85 per cent for borrowing and borrowing and 100 per cent for issuing bonds. [[9.40]] The new programme should be separated from the provisions and actors related to the financing of the undertaking, which essentially support the smooth functioning of the counter-guarantee provisions and actors supporting the general financing of the SME sector. The moment has come for us to take new directions for re-launching the economy, so that businesses can have a wider toolbox. The proposal is not long, it is not complicated, but we now need simple, transparent and stimulating programmes. Dear Parliament, I would ask you to support the proposed bill for the purpose of relaunching the economy. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-15-48	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, The summary report of the Committee on Budgets, acting as the Legislative Committee, during the hearing of the bill, is T/1566/2. Available on the website. The position of the Committee on Budgets and the opinion of the expressed minority will now be presented; a period of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to Mr Sándor F Kovács, rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets. Here you go.
u2021-06-15-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 June 2021, the Committee on Budgets discussed the 2020 XC on Hungary's central budget for 2021. T/16566. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by 10 votes in favour under the exceptional procedure, 5 votes against and no abstentions. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Please vote in favour of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-15-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, To present the minority opinion, since MEP László Varju is not in the room, I cannot give the floor. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, key speakers will present the group's position in the time frame available to the political groups. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. I would like to ask Mr Sándor F Kovács if he would like to speak now... [[F by Sándor Kovács:]] Later, thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, lead speaker of Jobbik's group, will be given a speech. [[Intercoms: He's not here!]] I beg your pardon, but I'm afraid you can't see it from here. He was just inside. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2021-06-15-51	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In order to restart the economy, it is appropriate to further strengthen the scope of aid schemes already available in order to increase investment and development business financing. To support this, the proposed legislation we are discussing would introduce a new State counter-guarantee scheme that would be available to any undertaking regardless of the size of the undertakings. Its essence is that, under this counter-guarantee programme, the Hungarian State would give 85 per cent in the case of borrowing and borrowing, and 100 per cent in the case of bond issuance. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian arrives in the room.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP faction supports the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-15-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát has arrived. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2021-06-15-53	Mr President, Dear House, In the first round, I would like to thank Mr President for his flexibility and openness, because it is true that I was still waiting in the hallway, wandering around, because surprisingly, it took place early either because of the general or because of the lack of a pro-government speaker for my speech, and it is no coincidence that this is the case, because we have a very strange proposal ahead of us. So what my fellow Member Vejkey has said, I can fully agree with that. If the aim and aim were to provide Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises with a counter-guarantee, with the commitment of the budget, a protective shield, I think this is a debateable point. What strikes a man is that this was submitted by the government at the last minute as a budget changer. He did this yesterday by getting information yesterday that today we have to vote on a proposal of HUF 3000 billion. There are two scenarios here. One of the scenarios is that there is an important goal, and this important goal is that the Government of Hungary wants to approach, solve and implement it at the last minute, colliding and even quickly. In this case, we should say and say that such an important issue should not be dealt with, because they could not have meant it. Therefore, this cannot be supported by an opposition representative in this form. The other scenario is that we are talking about a last-minute trick involving a $3,000 billion framework, some kind of mine, on which, obviously, the intention and the plan for opposition representatives to ignore it should be voted in good faith, as it would be difficult to argue with my fellow Member Vejkey, such a short intro. I think it warms the hearts of all well-meaning people. At the same time, I see that any scenario prevails, even in the case of opposition representatives, a reticence is so benign that I do not find any signs of it. If there is an end to this stay, obviously I do not want to make predictions, it can only happen because we claim that all kinds of support for Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises can mean life in the period following the epidemiological situation, but in the period when we see that with this EUR 3000 billion budget, we are trying to outplay and play through the same magnitude of wealth. Now the Government of Hungary has been clumsy with EU funds, so it feels compelled to give it back to its private hands; according to 24.hu, in Chinese hands, in other words, it can be a close-to-government entrepreneur. I do not want to join this tip race, I would not feel fair to advance the decision at a later date, but I do see that the value of the motorway concession concerned is not overpriced, but, in case of fair pricing, HUF 2500-2800 billion; we are talking about roughly the same amount of counter-guarantee shield that Hungary's Government is now trying to provide. What I wanted to say from this is that there are huge amounts of money being treated very irresponsiblely. Obviously, the opposition does not want to assist. If, on the other hand, you have a well-intentioned proposal to help Hungarian businesses, put that proposal on the table at the right time. We will be there during the day either in the middle of summer or on the day of a Eb match involving Hungarians, in addition to cheering for our country in the evening, of course. But it can be said that well-intentioned proposals must be given a way; fair treatment must be granted for them, which is not included in this last momentary amendment before us. To be honest, you have to spread the pages and tell them what the purpose of what is on the paper is. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-06-15-54	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It's really unusual today. So the lead speaker of the Fidesz will be Mr Sándor F Kovács, he will tell us, he will present the position of Fidesz in the debate. Congressman, you have the floor. [[9.50]]
u2021-06-15-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us will be a very short, but more important, change for entrepreneurs, since, with the adoption of the proposal, - this year's budget already provides them with a favourable borrowing opportunity. In order to re-launch the economy, the government intends to further strengthen the financing of investments and development investments by businesses while maintaining existing support programmes. To support this, the proposal has launched a new State counter-guarantee programme, which is available independently of the size of enterprises. In this context, the State will provide a state guarantee of 85 per cent in the case of borrowing and borrowing, 100 per cent in the case of bond issuance. Both loans and bonds have a maximum maturity of 25 years. It is important to mention that START Guarantee Financial Services Ltd. in addition to the State counter-guarantee, the company's ready-to-pay guarantee pool shall not exceed HUF 3000 billion until 31 December 2021. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the bill before us will help the Hungarian economy in all respects, and hopefully this amendment will help to restart Hungary as soon as possible. That is why I ask the Fidesz Group and all my fellow Members to support this motion. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-15-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. András Tállai, Deputy Minister, if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to reply. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place today. Dear Parliament, Our work will continue at the earliest from 12:30 a.m., and I will take a break for 12 hours and 30 minutes. (Sunning: 9.52 12.46 President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: László Földi and Dr. László Varga)
u2021-06-15-57	Good afternoon, fellow Members. I welcome you all with love. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to take your seats, because we will continue our work with the decisions on the agenda. We must also decide on the adoption of proposals requiring a qualified majority in today's decisions. I would like to draw your attention to the decision-making rules 50. Paragraph 3 of the Act, where Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority in the final vote, this also extends without a further separate decision to the omission of the provision indicating the fundamentality of the unapproved regulation. In this case, the final vote by a simple majority shall take place on the text of the proposal thus amended. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will have a presence check to verify the functioning of the voting machines, but first I will ask the staff of the Parliament to check the settings of the presence and voting options in the horseshoes. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much. I am now asking my fellow Members to press one of the buttons of their voting machines. [[Attendance check.]] I declare that 160 Members are present, 39 away, and the House has a quorum. Dear Parliament, In line with our adopted agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations made yesterday. Congressman Csaba Gyure, representative of Jobbik, I/16508. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 131 votes in favour, 27 votes against and one abstention. Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, I/16506. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 131 votes in favour, 27 votes against and one abstention. Member Gergely Arató, representative of DK, I/16499. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 130 votes in favour, 26 votes against and 2 abstentions. Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, I/16510, No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 130 votes in favour, 27 votes against and one abstention. Congressman Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, I/16504. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 130 votes in favour, 26 votes against and 2 abstentions. Congressman Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of Parliament, representative of Jobbik, is I/15075. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 131 votes in favour, 27 votes against and one abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2013 CLXXVII Act on transitional and empowering provisions relating to the entry into force of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code follows. T/16565. Final vote of bill No 1. I would remind you that, according to our decision on Monday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/16565. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 133 votes in favour, 25 votes against and no abstentions. [[12.50]] Next up is XC 2020 on Hungary's central budget for 2021. T/16566. Final vote of bill No 1. I would remind you that, according to our decision on Monday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16566. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 134 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 24 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Following is the Information Notice on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2020 and on the adoption of the report on the operation of the institution for the National Assembly H/16286. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/16286. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 132 votes in favour, 26 votes against and no abstentions. Next up is the T/16118 on Hungary's central budget for 2022. Final vote of bill No 1. CXCIV of 2011 on Hungary's economic stability. Act T/16118/1179 and Act T/16118/1179. The Single Budget Act No 1 was sent to the President of the Fiscal Council. Opinion of the Council on the granting of a preliminary contribution 16118/1181. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now salute Dr. Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, to whom the House Rule of Decision 36. In accordance with paragraph 11 of paragraph 11 of this Article, I now give the floor. I'll wait for Mr. President to raise himself to the stand. Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to inform you that your timeframe is ten minutes. Here you go.
u2021-06-15-58	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, I do not wish to take advantage of the time frame, but for a few minutes, I will fulfill my legitimate obligation to justify our decision and present the substance of the decision. On 8 June 2021, the Speaker of Parliament sent a single bill on Hungary's central budget for 2022, including the introduction of amendments adopted by the Parliament, requesting the Fiscal Council to adopt Article 25 of the Stability Act. According to Article 44 of the Law, its opinion on compliance with the sovereign debt rule and the prior consent of the Fundamental Law pursuant to Article 44 (3) to the final vote on the bill. The Council examined the bill and, on the basis of the examination, at its meeting on 10 June 2021, took the following decision: it concluded that the additional expenditure appropriations proposed for adoption in the draft budget law were partly supported by additional revenue appropriations, partly by a reduction in expenditure appropriations. Thus, the amount of the cash flow deficit and the government debt does not change, nor does the result-based deficit go away. As a result, the Council considered the government debt ratio envisaged on 31 December 2022 to be unchanged as the T/16118/1179 on Hungary's central budget for 2022. Proposal for a Single Budget Act No 3 In its view, the extent envisaged in paragraph 1 of this Article complies with the provisions of the Stability Act, has been established accordingly and is in line with the macroeconomic and public finances processes on which the bill is based. Since the value of the sovereign debt indicator, calculated by the end of 2022, is 0.6 percentage points lower than the expected value of the indicator by the end of 2021, the requirement of Article 36 (5) of the Fundamental Law is also met. On this basis, the Council gave its preliminary consent under Article 44 (3) of the Fundamental Law to the final vote on the proposal for a single budget law. Dear Parliament, Please allow me, in accordance with the mandate of the Council, to give very brief reasons for its decision. The framework of the sovereign debt rule is defined by the Fundamental Law as follows: . As long as the government debt exceeds half of the total domestic product, Parliament may only adopt a central budget law containing a reduction in the ratio of the government debt to the total domestic total product. The bill fully complies with this rule. [[13.00]] The Stability Act also provides for a requirement for the development of debt, according to which the sovereign debt ratio should be reduced by at least 0,1 percentage points. It is clear from the single bill that the debt indicator could decrease by more than 0.6 percentage points next year. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In the process of the Council, he followed the parliamentary discussion of the draft budget law. On the basis of a review of the proposal for a single budget law, it concluded that the changes in appropriations to be adopted by Parliament in relation to the submitted bill raise the total amount of expenditure in its balance by HUF 41,3 billion. The majority of each increase in expenditure appropriations is offset by a reduction in the appropriations for other mixed expenditure and a small part by an increase in the appropriations for the general turnover tax. The Council considered the increased revenue allocation to be feasible and the reduced expenditure allocation to be justified. Thus, both the lack of payment of the central subsystem and the amount of public debt remain unchanged, and the magnitude of the result-based deficit remains unchanged. Thus, the overall content of the draft single budget law meets the Council's opinion on the findings on the application of the sovereign debt rule and did not require a review of the findings. As the honourable Members and gentlemen recall, in their opinion on the draft budget law proposal, the Council proposed a reduction in the planned deficit-to-GDP ratio and, in line with this, a greater reduction in the sovereign debt ratio. The Fiscal Council considers that, as a result of the increase above the expectations of the first quarter of this year and the positive shift in growth prospects, nominal GDP levels can significantly exceed the level of budget planning in 2021 and 2022, resulting in an increase in tax bases and budget revenues. This improves the achievement of the deficit target and the sovereign debt indicator under the proposed legislation, i.e. reducing the risk of non-compliance, while at the same time confirming the justification for the objective of the lower deficit and the sovereign debt indicator recommended by the Council for consideration by 2022. The Council therefore included in the decision its opinion on the implementation of the sovereign debt rule in accordance with the relevant paragraph of the Stability Act on the proposal for a single fiscal law and gave its consent to the final vote on the proposal for a single fiscal law. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your attention, and I would like to wish you a pleasant, usefully spent, recharged, good summer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-15-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your kind words for the summer. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the final vote follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16118/1179. Proposal for a single budget law No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the proposal for a single budget law by 132 votes in favour, 26 votes against and no abstentions. It is now up to the President of the Republic to decide on a proposal for a legislative amendment to the Real Estate Register Act, adopted by the Parliament on 26 May 2021, and the final vote. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/1569/7. Letter from the President of the Republic T/15969/8. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. The proposed amendment of the Legislative Committee T/15969/10. and T/15969/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of the House Rules, there is no possibility to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. We are now deciding on an amendment to the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1569/10. Amendment No 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment by 137 votes to one, with 21 abstentions. The final vote now follows, in which we shall decide on the text of the law which has not been announced, as amended by the amendment proposal of the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the law on property registration which has not been published with the amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment by 137 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 20 abstentions. We now have T/16221 on the coordination of defence and security activities. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/16221/5. and a summary report by T/16221/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that this includes 8-10, 52, 53, 54, 91. A qualified majority shall be required for the adoption of the provision amending paragraph 7 (k) and point 58 thereof, and the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1622/15. A qualified majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the parts of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 132 votes in favour, 25 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on other parts of the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1622/15. The other parts of the summary amendment proposal require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the remaining parts of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 25 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Their adoption requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16221/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring qualified majority members by 134 votes in favour, 25 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16221/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 25 votes against and no abstentions. [[13.10]] We now have T/16367 on emergency transitional arrangements. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/16367/14 and T/16367/15. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the group of the LMP proposed to maintain Amendment No 6 and the DK group's amendment No 5. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 6 is proposed by Lóránt Keresztes. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 27 votes in favour, 126 votes against and 3 abstentions. Amendment 5 is proposed by Gergely Arató. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 26 votes in favour, 126 votes against and 3 abstentions. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the House that the house rules are set at 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/16367/14, the author is entitled "T/16367/14'. A separate vote was initiated by the DK Group on point 118 of the consolidated amendment proposal and on point 36 of the DK Group. First, we decide on the part of the summarised amendment that requires a qualified majority and then on the points requested for a separate vote. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. So now we are deciding on points 24, 50 and 84 of the summarised amendment that require a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of these will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16367/14. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 4 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 118, which requires a simple majority, as requested for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16367/14. Point 118, which requires a simple majority, of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the point requested for a separate vote by 155 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 2 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 36 of the summary amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16367/14. Point 36 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the point requested for a separate vote by 139 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 17 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16367/14. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment by 131 votes in favour, 21 votes against and 4 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/16367/20. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 23 votes against and 3 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/16367/20. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 21 votes against and 4 abstentions. It is now up to T/16369 on certain asset management issues and on the amendment of certain laws to strengthen the coherence of the legal system. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/16369/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Lóránt Keresztes. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 27 votes in favour, 126 votes against and 2 abstentions. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, the Group of Fidesz initiated a separate vote on points 19 and 20 of the text. First, we decide on the parts of the summary amendment that require a qualified majority, then we decide on the content-related points requested for a separate vote in the summary amendment proposal, and then on the other points of the summarised amendment proposal. We are now deciding on points 69, 72, 75, 77-82, 84, 87-89, 91, 92, 94, 95, 98 and 102-104 that require a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of these will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16369/8. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 24 votes against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on the adoption of points 19 and 20 of the draft amendment, which require a simple majority in substance, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16369/8. Point 19 and 20 of the amendment, which requires a simple majority in substance, have been asked for a separate vote. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the points asked for a separate vote in the summary amendment by 2 votes in favour, 129 against and 24 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16369/8. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 132 votes in favour, 24 votes against and 1 abstention. [[13.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16369. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 23 votes against and 1 abstention. We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16369. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 24 votes against and 1 abstention. It is now up to the Council to amend certain laws concerning the management of assets and other provisions on the management of assets in order to create a sustainable management of public assets. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15995/5 of the Legislative Committee's proposed amendment. T/15995/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 18 of this Regulation, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15995/5. Point requiring a qualified majority of the amending proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points of the summary amendment which required a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 24 votes against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15995/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 132 votes in favour, 24 votes against and 1 abstention. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15995/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 24 votes against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15995/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 24 votes against and 1 abstention. Here comes the T/15986 on the taking-over of certain home-building state tasks by charitable organisations. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15986/5. and a summary report by T/15986/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 11, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament, therefore, to accept T/15986/5. Point requiring a qualified majority of the amending proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points of the summary amendment which required a qualified majority by 136 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15986/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment which required a simple majority by 140 votes in favour, 18 votes against and 1 abstention. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15986/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 139 votes in favour, 18 votes against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15986/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 140 votes in favour, 18 votes against and 1 abstention. It is now up to T/16365 on stricter action against pedophile offenders and amending certain laws to protect children. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/16365/15. and the summary report by T/16365/16. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 5, the LMP Group and the DK Group proposed to maintain the amendments Nos 6, 8 and 9. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 5 is proposed by Timea Szabó and Bence Tordai. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 22 votes in favour, 132 votes against and 3 abstentions. Amendment 4 was tabled by Márta Demeter and Krisztina Hohn. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 29 votes in favour, 126 votes against and 1 abstention. [[13.30]] Amendment 6 is proposed by Ágnes Vadai and László Sebian-Petrovszki. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 2 votes in favour, 153 votes against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 8 is proposed by Ágnes Vadai and László Sebian-Petrovszki. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he maintains a proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 138 votes to none, with 20 abstentions, without a vote in favour. Amendment 9 is proposed by Ágnes Vadai and László Sebian-Petrovszki. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 2 votes in favour, 152 votes against and 3 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 6 and 7, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16365/15. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 156 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16365/15. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment by 155 votes in favour, 1 votes against and 1 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/16365/19. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 157 votes in favour, 1 vote against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/16365/19. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament is the single proposal e adopted by 157 votes to one, with no abstention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] The following is the 1993 LXXVIII on certain arrangements for renting apartments and premises and their disposal. Act 1 and Act CXCVI of 2011 on National Property. T/16223. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The legislative committee's summary proposal for amendment T/16223/8, and its summary report T/16223/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 4 of Section 5, the Dialogue proposed the continuation of Amendment 4 proposals. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 5 is proposed by Sándor Burány. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 8 votes in favour, 128 votes against and 19 abstentions. Amendment 4 is proposed by Antal Csárdi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 25 votes in favour, 131 votes against and 2 abstentions. Dear House, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 9, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16223/8. Point requiring a qualified majority of the amending proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 24 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16223/8. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 23 votes against and 1 abstention. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16223/12. The provision of a single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 25 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16223/12. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 25 votes against and no abstentions. Next up is T/16225 on the Foundation for the University of Fudan for the University of Fudan. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The legislative committee's summary proposal for amendment T/16225/4 and its summary report T/16225/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16225/4. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 132 votes in favour, 25 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16225/6. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 25 votes against and no abstentions. [[13.40]] We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16225/6. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 25 votes against and no abstentions. Following is the T/16210 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2022. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/16210/7. T/16210/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 23 of this Regulation, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16210/7. Point requiring a qualified majority of the amending proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points of the summary amendment which required a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 25 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16210/7. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional point requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 25 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16210/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 25 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16210/9. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 25 votes against and no abstentions. Next up is the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. T/16200. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/16200/5. T/16200/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 1 to 3, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16200/5. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 158 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on a further point in the summary amendment requiring a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16200/5. An additional point requiring a simple majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the simple majority of the summary amendment by 158 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16200/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 158 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16200/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 159 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It is now time to elect a new member of the Constitutional Court by secret ballot. Allow me to extend a special welcome to the candidate, Mr. Zoltán Márki The members of the candidate's family, all the permanent guests of the Parliament, our honored guests, who will attend our meeting. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Dr. Zsolt András Varga resigned on 16 October 2020 because of his election as President of the Curia. In place of the ad hoc committee which designated the members of the Constitutional Court, S/16564. CLI 2011 on the Constitutional Court. Act No. 7 Acting in its power under Article 2 (1) of the Treaty, Mr Zoltán Márki proposes to appoint him as a constitutional judge. Dear Parliament, The Justice Committee has listened to the candidate and supported his election. The Committee's opinion and the candidate's CV were published on the House's website. The Parliament elects the new member of the Constitutional Court with two-thirds of the votes of the Members of Parliament for 12 years on the basis of the proposal submitted by the Speaker of Parliament, with effect from 22 June 2021. Under the parliamentary law, the vote is classified. Ladies and gentlemen, The process of the secret vote is as follows: Members can take the ballots from the group of the initials of their names, in alphabetical order, in four groups, in a place designated by the Speaker in accordance with previous practice, in the Danube corridor of the House of Parliament. I would like to inform you that in the lettering sector, you can receive a ballot and an envelope. In the alphabetical sectors of the list, hand sanitizer and disposable pens will be available to everyone. Please take this with you and use it to fill out the ballot paper and then throw it away in the trash bin next to the polling booth for this purpose. Of course, anyone can use their own pen, then please take it with you. Please confirm the fact of receipt on the sheets placed at the tables. I would like to inform you that a voting booth may be used in the vote. I ask you to place your nomination on the ballot paper in the box "yes" or "no" or "no" on the ballot box. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the obligation to wear a mask during a secret vote under the current presidential provision. [[13.50]] I now ask Mr László Varga to briefly explain the voting rules, and with respect, my fellow Members, to remain in their seats and to listen to the notary's information. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2021-06-15-60	Dear Parliament, The only way to vote is with the official ballots. A valid vote shall be deemed to be the one placed on the candidate on the ballot-paper with two incisive lines placed in squares next to his name. The vote on which the Member has voted shall not be valid and shall not be beyond reasonable doubt. The vote that was not cast on the official ballot paper, which lacks the stamp, or if the vote sheet is taken by the Member but not thrown into the ballot box, is null and void. I would like to inform you that if anyone fails to fill out the ballot paper, the members of the ballot counting committee at the ballot box will involve it and replace it with a new card.
u2021-06-15-61	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, During the voting period, only Members and members of the working group involved in the vote shall be allowed to remain in the corridor of the Lower House Chamber. I announce that 30 minutes are available to cast the votes, so since it is now 13:51, it will be possible to do so for 14 hours and 25 minutes. The results of the vote are expected to be presented at 2.51 p.m. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I order the secret vote. (Sunning: 13.52 14.55) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dr. László Varga)
u2021-06-15-62	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask all of you to take your seats so that we can continue our session. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I declare that the ballot counting committee has completed its work. He noted that 156 Members had participated in the secret ballot. The notaries concluded that the voting procedure was valid and effective for the candidate. On the person of Dr. Zoltán Márki, 156 Members cast their votes based on the number of ballot papers found in the urn. Their distribution is as follows: the number of invalid votes is 15, the number of valid votes is 141, the number of votes yes is 136, the number of votes no is 2, the number of votes remaining 3. On this basis, I find that the National Assembly elected Dr. Zoltán Márki as a member of the Constitutional Court. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] Dear Parliament, The new member of the Constitutional Court will now be given a solemn oath and the oath papers will be signed. I ask Dr. Zoltán Márki to come to the centre of the Chamber and take his oath. I would ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to read out the vows, and I would ask those present to listen to the oath as usual. [[The people in this room stand up. Dr. Zoltán Márki steps into the middle of the room. Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2021-06-15-63	I, Dr. Zoltán Márki, pledge to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my position as a constitutional judge for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2021-06-15-64	Thank you very much. The oath papers will now be signed. I would ask Mr. József Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature, and I would ask the elected member of the Constitutional Court to sign them. [[It's happening.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate Dr. Zoltán Márki on his election. We wish you successful work, good luck, God's blessing! Thank you very much, Your Honor. (Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat) Replaced by László Földi.) Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with decisions. It follows that T/16366 on the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport in the context of the regulation of the activity of a player. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/16366/6, and T/16366/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/16366/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 126 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 19 abstentions. [[15.00]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1636/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 127 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 19 abstentions. It follows that T/16220 on the strategic amendment of certain laws to the tourism and catering sector will be followed. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/16220/6. T/16220/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/16220/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 126 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 3 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16220/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 126 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 3 abstentions. Following is the Hungarian contribution to the Balkan military peace-keeping operations under NATO's direction 94/2001. H/16219. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/16219. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal with 144 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. It follows that T/16297 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of a cooperative of small children. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/16297/5. T/16297/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/16297/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 128 votes in favour, no votes against, with 16 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16297/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 129 votes in favour, no votes against, with 16 abstentions. The 2015 CV on the debt settlement of natural persons follows a series of steps. T/16212 on the amendment of the Act Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/16212/6. and the summary report by T/16212/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/16212/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 127 votes in favour, no votes against, with 16 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16212/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 127 votes in favour, with 16 abstentions, without voting against. It follows that T/16206 on the registration of legal persons and on the registration procedure will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/16206/7. and the summary report by T/16206/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Lóránt Keresztes. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 21 votes in favour, 115 votes against and 5 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/16206/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 141 votes to one, with one abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/16206.9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 140 votes in favour, with 1 abstention, without voting against Ladies and gentlemen, Following a series of amendments to Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code T/16207. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/16207/5. T/16207/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[15.10]] We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/16207/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 142 votes in favour, with 1 abstention, without voting against. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16207/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 143 votes in favour, with one abstention, without voting against. It follows that T/16218 on the enforcement of financial compensation in connection with the withdrawal of civil proceedings will be followed. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/16218/7 of the Legislative Committee's proposal for an amendment; and T/16218/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed that amendments No 2 and 3 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Lóránt Keresztes. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 23 votes in favour, 118 votes against and two abstentions. Amendment 3 is also proposed by Lóránt Keresztes. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 23 votes in favour, 116 votes against and 2 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/16218/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 141 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16218/10. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 143 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows now that T/16204 on the amendment of certain laws in the field of vocational training and adult education is being followed. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/16204/6 and T/16204/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/16204/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 139 votes in favour, with three abstentions, without voting against. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16204/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 140 votes in favour, with three abstentions, without voting against. The T/14949 on national data assets follows a series of steps. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/14949/5 and T/14949/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/14949.5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 123 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 19 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/149497. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 123 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 19 abstentions. Next up is T/16226 on the implementation of Budapest Student City. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/16226/4 of the legislative committee's summary amendment report is T/16226/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/16226/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 123 votes in favour, 18 votes against and 2 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16226/6. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 123 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 4 abstentions. We are now continuing our work with disciplinary decisions. I would like to inform you that Mr. Speaker of the Parliament Act 46/D. Article 47 (2) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Acting under paragraph 1 (c), he ordered a reduction in the due fee of Péter Jakab. The representative asked the immunity committee to repeal the decision. The committee did not agree to the request of the representative. Next, the Parliament Act 51. On the basis of paragraph 7 (b), the Member requested that the Speaker's decision be annulled by the Parliament. In view of this, the resolution rule of 148. Under paragraph 2 of Section H/16530, the Speaker presented a proposal for a resolution. the same content as the previous decision to reduce the Member's due fee. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the proposal for a resolution, the related speaker's decision, the relevant representative's request, as well as the information provided by the Chairman of the immunity committee, was available to all of you on the website. In accordance with the provisions of the house rules, no proposal or Commission report may be submitted to amend the proposal for a decision. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if the Speaker's decision is annulled by the Parliament, the Member's due fees will not be reduced, the Parliament Act 47. § 1 (paragraph 1 (c)), the proceedings against him shall be terminated. The Speaker's decision to reduce the fee is decided by the Parliament without discussion. I ask the Honourable Parliament, in its scope, the House President's decision to reduce the due fee of MEP Péter Jakab is H/16530. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 118 votes in favour, 18 votes against, with two abstentions. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] I now ask Mr László Földi to present the decision that has just been adopted. Here you go, notary. You have the floor. [[Noise.]] I would ask my fellow Members to remain in their seats and to listen to the notary's announcement. Here you go, notary. [[15.20]]
u2021-06-15-65	The Parliament, the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Law [[Hereinafter referred to as "Ogytv'.]] 51. Acting under the powers set out in paragraphs 8 and 9 (b), Mr.Péter Jakab is a Member of the Parliament of Ogytv. 51. § 7 (b) on the request of the President of the National Assembly OE-41/322-1/2021. Mr.Péter Jakab maintains his decision to reduce the honor fee for Parliamentary Members, thereby reducing the honor fee of Mr.Péter Jakab's MP by HUF 9 686 400, equal to its four-month amount. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2021-06-15-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. (Sunning: 15.21 15.23 László Földi in the notary seat Attila Gelencsér, Dr. László Varga is replaced by Dr. Csaba Gyüre.) Dear Parliament, As I have already said, we have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Mr Gergely Kálló has applied for a post-meeting speech from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-06-15-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today's session was our last parliamentary session before the summer, so we can go on our summer break. But before we go on summer vacation, in my last speech, let me ask you that you have a calm conscience. Is your conscience at ease? Why do I ask that? Several months ago, there was a problem in Dunaújváros that did not affect very few people. What am I talking about? One of the biggest employers of Fejér County, the Ironworks, Dunafer. There are 4,500 people working at the Ironworks, 10,000 families living in the factory. So what happened? They've been paid in two installments for several months, and you haven't said a word, and you've done it with a calm conscience. They took away the turkey money they promised, and they didn't say a word, and they did it with a calm conscience. The pensioners who worked for 25 years and then retired have been deprived of the 23,000 forints that you have not said a word to them, and have done so with a calm conscience, while the management of the Vasmű, we, Members of Parliament, the local government, have done our job, we have worked continuously, we have made proposals for you, we have worked out economic solutions, but you have completely ignored them with a calm conscience. The local Fidesz didn't speak on the case. Neither did the newly appointed President of the Constituencies of Székesfehérvár speak in this matter, and you, 133 of the bravest people, consorting with these people, did not say a stinking word about the emergency of the Ironworks. Well, congratulations. If you're going on vacation and vacation with a calm conscience, then you should be ashamed. But speaking of Dunaújváros' new appointed constituency president, Dr. Krisztián Molnár, let me ask you: what about the doctor's plan? What about the diabolical plan to create a special economic zone in Dunaújváros and the region, thus distributing economic stomachs to municipalities? Because in Parliament, since I've been talking about this, you haven't even given us an honest answer to when you're going to accept or even accept this draft, which, I'm telling you, will only cause Dunaújváros 500 million forints minus in your budget this year, not to mention the other injured municipalities. Gentlemen. What about this one? After that, do you dare go on vacation with a calm conscience, on summer vacation? Well, shame on you. We're gonna do it, we're gonna do it in the summer. I urge you, pull yourselves together, join forces for the Ironworks, join forces for the region, and do your job. Thank you for the floor. I'll remain a servant of my district. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-06-15-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi has also applied for a pre-meeting speech from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-06-15-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It's over with the spring session, and the sound of the countryside! I asked for this last speech after today's agenda in this session with a title 15. I have done this series of speeches in recent weeks to get the voices of the people of Somogy, the voice of the countryside, to Parliament. I have brought problems here, among the walls of this House, which, I believe, are the real problems of the countryside, because it seems to you that the countryside is not important. Steps are being taken to achieve apparent results, but the substantive, complex rural development strategy has also fallen behind in this session. I trust that in the coming period the Hungarian people will pay attention to what is being said, because it seems to you that the World Hunting Exhibition is more important for nearly a hundred billion forints, or the Budapest-Belgrád railway line for nearly 700 billion, not to mention the fact that the Hungarian people's assets are being outsourced to foundations. This was your activity in the spring session! Today, a budget of 2022 was adopted, from which complete social groups were left out; today, this Hungarian reality does not deal with those living in extreme poverty. But we've seen the form of law that you guys have taken to the top today. They are constantly making proposals under the salad law that they know very well that opposition parties cannot vote on. So was today's pedophile bill, which is typically a criminal code category. We must take every step, we must take every means to take action against pedophiles, yet you have politicised this bill, but we good Members have decided that the most important thing for us to do is to fight pedophiles, which we must highlight in this bill. That is why we voted in favour of this bill today. But everything else is more important to you. They look at nothing but how they can cross the opposition, but believe me, in 2022 the Hungarian electorate will be able to decide what the Hungarian Parliament is about when you are on the government, and they will get an alternative, which the opposition parties have already laid down, a government programme on which we represent all Hungarian people, and that is what the emphasis is on: all Hungarian people, no matter who they vote for. [[15.30]] What is important to us is that in Hungary there should be prosperity and freedom, not what you do, they create hatred between Hungarian and Hungarian. Hungarian families, Hungarian relatives and Hungarian acquaintances are conspiring because you put this hatred to the top here in the Hungarian Parliament. It's a shame, fellow Members. Because what's important to us, why did we take that oath three years ago? To serve the Hungarian nation. And what you are doing here in the Hungarian Parliament is unfortunately going to be put on the bench of shame, because that is clearly not your goal, but only to preserve power. I would like to thank the voters and citizens who have come to me with their problems, and in the next session, I will also do what I will do to get the voice of the countryside, your voice, here, into the walls of the House, because only together we can find solutions to the problems. And if there will be at least one proposal that you will accept... because I know very well that those proposals are good proposals, it is only for you that it is to support the proposal of an opposition Member, which is actually being put here by the Hungarian people, into the walls of Parliament. So in the autumn session, your voice will also be the most important, the voice of Hungarian people, the voice of Hungarian families and Hungarian entrepreneurs. That's why I'm gonna work, you know, with you. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-15-70	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, After the agenda, Mr Péter Agh from the Fidesz Group applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-06-15-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We've been through a time of trying to be human. Another wave of the coronal virus epidemic has swept harshly across the world, including Hungary and my constituency, North Vas County. We've suffered a lot of losses, but thanks to our cooperation, thanks to the perseverance of everyday heroes, we've also defeated the third wave of the plague. As a Member of the Parliament of North Vas County, I would first like to express my sincere condolences to those who have lost their loved ones because of the epidemic. We feel for them and pray for them. Dear House, Please allow me to salute the memory of the mayor of Bozhok, Béla Pietros, who can no longer be with us because of the coronal virus. Mr. Mayor has always served his settlement tirelessly. He was one of the best people I knew. As mayor, he has also made many good and lasting things. We'll never forget it. In addition to uncertainty and grief, however, our joint cooperation has given enormous strength, which has triumphed even in the most difficult times. We Hungarians have once again proved that we can overcome the fear, overcome the difficulties, and together, we can fight the most difficult battles. It was also touching to me to see the North Vas County people, despite the difficult situation, implement the epidemiological measures in a disciplined manner. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said the other day that there is no shortage of heroes when there is great trouble in Hungary. This truth has also been proven by North-East County, and everyone has done well in their territory. Within these walls, I would like to thank doctors, nurses, paramedics and all health workers for not giving up on the hardest of moments. Thanks to government officials for their help with the vaccination campaign. Thanks to parents who were both able to cope in the world of work and helped their children during digital education. Thank you to the teachers, who, even during the time of their confinement, have done everything in their power to pass on their knowledge. Thank you to the police, firefighters, soldiers, officials, who have provided security for all of us. Thank you to workers who contributed to Hungary's continued viability, whether from home or from work during the epidemic. We express our gratitude to the employees of social institutions for the unselfish care of the recipients even in the midst of the greatest uncertainty. Thank you to small and medium-sized enterprises for holding on in times of greatest difficulty. Dear Parliament, In addition, I would like to mention those who continued to build the North Vas County community during the epidemic. Thanks to spiritual leaders, priests, clergymen, who also strengthened spiritual relations during the plague. Thanks to the organizers of civil society organisations and associations, who have kept on organizing community life during the quarantine period. Thank you to all those who have volunteered to help those in need. I'm convinced that when we build a community, we build a county of North Iron. Their worth has been recorded and will be expected in the future. Dear Parliament, After all, during the period of fear and uncertainty caused by the pandemic, there were foundations, which were not even shaken by the current storm. We have made an alliance with the mayors of North Vas County, the county government and the government in order to create good and lasting in the region. I am proud to report that despite the epidemic, we have made progress in many areas. In Kőszeg, for example, we started a large-scale road renovation programme with government support, in Celldömölk we are preparing to renovate the road through the city, and in Sárvár we managed to replace the billion-dollar debt of the spa, which, in this situation, posed a serious threat to the future of the famous city of tourism. In the smaller towns and small settlements, the Hungarian village program enabled investments to be made. All of this proves that the power of cooperation based on love, commitment and will for the county of North Iron works in the most difficult times. At the end of the third wave, our task is to restart our region. With persistent, honest work and strong alliances, we will continue to build North Vas County together. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-06-15-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the agenda, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát from the Jobbik Group applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-06-15-73	Mr President, Dear House, We nation-thinking right-wing opposition have often been amazed at how contrary to national interests what the government is doing in the session that we have just left behind. The fact that the Government of Hungary is now trying to re-introduce a bad model that has already been tried has been raised in the context of the re-concession of our motorways, let us add that it is a national asset with a concession value of HUF 2500-2800 billion in this case, and we are very concerned that if aliens or foreigners are going to manage this property, it will certainly result in a rise in tolls and a vulnerability that a nation state that is giving itself could not afford. In parallel, we received news about the various foreign investments, which the Hungarian voters typically did not ask for. Neither in the 2018 parliamentary elections nor since then can we remember that any Hungarian citizen would have required foreign investments supported by hundreds of billions of dollars of loans, and obviously, in connection with the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, everyone first asks about the reimbursement calculations, there is an expert who predicts only a few hundred years, but there is one who has been in the flow chart for 2400 years, so that the hundreds of billions invested here can be refunded by then. We see, therefore, that geopolitical interests in the perspective, as they have said, and that this investment does not serve in the foreseeable future, but it is indebting every voter in Hungary with a brutal Chinese loan. The same thing happened to them earlier in Paks II. This was also the case with a loan of the size of a thousand billion, with all the conditions and details of which we do not know to date, but also with a loan of the order of one thousand billion. In addition to the direct 100 billion from the Hungarian budget for the University of Fudan, the latest news was about an additional 450 billion Chinese loan, where it is even more irritating that although Hungarian taxpayers pay for this investment, Chinese migrant workers would pull it up. And this institution would operate with a tuition fee and under conditions that in essence preclude Hungarian young people and Hungarian voters from using its services, but at the same time the amount spent exceeds the total amount of resources allocated to Hungarian higher education over a year. In the meantime, we have also seen that since 2010, Fidesz-KDNP has reduced the corporate tax rate for multi-company companies to almost tax haven levels. [[15.40]] While the amount to be collected from the population is constantly increasing, over HUF 500 billion is growing in the next budget period, the corporate tax payments of these large companies are simply missing from the budget. Once again, the commercial banks can be listed here in a large international context, against which the government treats them very graciously, while they are being cruelly taxed by Hungarian entrepreneurs and Hungarian voters. It is only commercial banks that they did not have to throw into the common register of the disease control, or, to be more precise, in four to five years, they could write down the total amount of their tax payments. No one else can say that about you in Hungary. So we see that the Government of Hungary has betrayed national interests in many ways. The remainder of the home-privatization thief law can also be listed here, because although 98 percent of the government has refused, the one or two percent apartment in the area of historic protection is also irritating for pennies. This will also have to be done in good time, at least to review the process. However, at the end of the session, let us not forget the victories of opposition, because fortunately there was no shortage of them either. Earlier, when the moratorium on eviction was demanded by a representative of each party individually and in a loud voice, and also by civilians, unfortunately, we did not always succeed or succeed in the experiments. Now, when the opposition parties and civilians did this together, strengthening each other's voice, we managed to reach the eviction moratorium, and we managed to achieve that almost all of the home-privatization thief law was withdrawn by the Fidesz-KDNP. We are now planning to strike a third blow against government cruelty, as we are launching a campaign against the various aspects of executive bans affecting minimum incomes. I am very confident that we will be able to withdraw this madness during the summer, because this is clearly in national interest. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-06-15-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-06-15-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The last day of the 2021 Spring Session was the last day of the Parliament, and I thought that we could not leave this House this summer without talking about a few issues that remained as a sense of absence. The first and most important thing is that the House is going on vacation without 3 million 600 thousand of our fellow citizens going on vacation to domestic accommodations, not going into the interior of a restaurant, not visiting relatives, family members, friends in the hospital, not even going to the zoo, not going to the library, not going to the cinema, just because it is healthy and not vaccinated. This would have been the case for the Parliament to at least remove these restrictions before the last day. In fact, an additional sense of absence is that even it has been waved completely unwarranted, neither virological nor epidemiologically professionally based on the vaccination of children against a coronal virus, without any justification whatsoever. And then, on 10 June, there was another division of Hungarian society, when it was 327/2021. a government decree has been issued by the Government establishing a supplementary leave for employees involved in the eradication of the consequences of the coronal virus pandemic. These 10 days of supplementary leave may be granted to those in the service of health care; those in the service of law enforcement; those in the law on the status of soldiers; those in the defence; those in social, child welfare and child protection institutions; and persons employed in the metropolitan and county government offices and district offices. And then there's the big question: why can't some of the 3178 local government's officials get this extra freedom from the people, the people in the country who have taken their share of the protection against the coronal virus epidemic? How is it possible for a government to know exactly what a fidesz, non-fidesz heroic struggle the local governments have fought to bring down as few people as possible from this epidemic and to take such a welfare measure, such a reward, and these people are the ones who are left out of it? Isn't it just because the employees of the local government's offices are not under the supervision of the government's subordinates? Are those people, even employees of Fidesz municipalities, punished for not doing their job under the direct supervision of the government? I do not understand the Fidesz mayors, the representatives of the local government, that they did not object the next day to sharing the multitude of our compatriots in this way again and to creating the discontent and pain that it is very inappropriate to burden our Hungarian compatriots at the beginning of summer. On June 11, the next day, a multitude of mayors should have stood before the Prime Minister's Office and demanded that they do not do so to their employees, because they no longer have the means to motivate them, if even such a case can occur. Are we surprised that a crowd of people from public service are wandering away because they say that the work they do will no longer receive the monthly reward, and that when such a situation occurs, they will feel virtually excluded and humiliated? On 11 June, the labour union sent a letter to the Prime Minister asking him to explain how the employees of the local authorities were left out of this. I guess you'll get your answer soon enough. I would have expected today that the Prime Minister would announce in the morning either a press release or a statement that we made a mistake, that we have written this government decree wrong, and that indeed, the employees of the local government offices who we know have made sacrifices during this year and a half have been left out of this opportunity. I ask my honourable fellow Members, members of the government and all those who can influence our public life to stop sharing society, to stop giving one person a reward and to ignore the other. This country is a small country, this people are a small people, if even we are so divided, how can this country have a truly beautiful future? Thank you for your attention.
u2021-06-15-76	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Fellow Members! After the agenda, Mr Ádám Steinmetz from the Jobbik Group applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[15.50]]
u2021-06-15-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We have recently decided on Hungary's budget for 2022, i.e. approximately HUF 25 000 billion. We have decided which areas, which regions, which sectors, which companies will receive support in particular, which are less. That's a huge amount of money, by the way, but it's good to know that it's not enough for everything. Just as it is worth knowing that next year elections will be held and there is a good chance of a change of government, there is a good chance that the representatives in the current opposition benches will implement this law, so the current opposition will be responsible for implementing the 2022 budget. I am only bringing this here because, overall, opposition representatives have tabled 1148 amendments to the budget, and the Jobbik faction has been at the forefront of this: more than half, 705 proposals have been submitted, and I myself have contributed 22 separate proposals for amending the budget. Do you know how much of this was accepted by the Fidesz parliamentary majority? Zero, none. The requests and proposals made by millions of Hungarians have been swept off the table, which we have brought to this House. For example, ideas for strengthening the hospital in Marcal, CT acquisition, children's class were not considered worthy of support, for example, to re-launch obstetrics, to appreciate doctors, nurses and to ensure the necessary funds for autonomy in the next year's budget. For example, the buy-back of BB, the completion of the Budapest-Balaton bike route as soon as possible were not considered to be worthy of support, or the restoration of the Somogysárd Castle into a cavalry centre to mention just a few examples. Actually, it's a very sad argument as to why they didn't think it was right. There is another leg in the budget from which I wanted to provide money and resources for this, including from the item destined for government communication or government propaganda; this was not considered to be good. And then let's see what the head of the government, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, said earlier about political advertising and advertising. If you'll allow me, I quote now that if we could get to the point where we couldn't use political advertising in the campaign, that would save us a lot of money. TV ads, these billboards, so generally what the common language accepts as advertising. Remove political advertising from electoral campaigns, which is not used as information, but as a means of manipulation to mislead people in Hungary. This is what Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said in 2007 at Magyar Television; yes, at that time opposition representatives could get into the television called public television, but they are no longer in public service, and he could express his opinion on this. But how the world has changed! What we see now, in 2021, is that next year's budget is planning HUF 18 billion for government communication and more than HUF 100 billion for public service media, which are virtually the means of Fidesz propaganda. So what can we expect? In the future, we can expect serialisation, Gyurcsányány, migranting, Brussels, but unfortunately, the vineyard processing, the independence of the Marcal hospital, the renovation of road 68 is probably less likely. Well, he's not well. However, I have good news: the law can be amended by law, and the budget by way of a supplementary budget, and in the event of a change of government, it will be inevitable to amend this budget law, which is now adopted by the Fidesz majority, so we will certainly do so. Finally, allow me to wish you a meaningful summer of relaxation and joy. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2021-06-15-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the first session of the Parliament's ordinary session in autumn is expected to take place in September. I now thank you for your work throughout the spring session. Thank you for keeping the minutes, thank you to the Members of the House for your irreplaceable assistance, highlighting specifically the work done by the meeting room service and technical staff. I wish you a good rest, a good summer, a happy return home and a chance to see you again in September. The meeting's closed.
