u2021-12-06-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Members of Parliament, The 19th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mr Attila Moring József and Mr Dezső Liberty will be in charge of the meeting. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work today with speeches before the agenda, from 12:15 to 13:45 a.m. for questions, and from approximately 13:45 a.m. to 14:45 a.m. for immediate questions and answers, and we will conclude the Parliament's meeting with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio, representative of the Dialogue, spoke with the title "On Current Affairs." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-06-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As the epidemic has risen again, on behalf of the Dialogue, I would like to thank those involved in the fight against the epidemic, health workers and social workers for their work. We wish those in the hospital to get well as soon as possible, and we express our sincere condolences to the families of the deceased. The Prime Minister was in Warsaw on Saturday, trying to put together the Frankenstein fraction on the far right. [[István Szilárd Németh: Humor Harold!]] has consulted its prospective members. In fact, it would be a private matter of Fidesz who he burns himself, who he tries to cooperate with, but since Hungary is represented by the governing party, it is important to talk about the advocacy of these parties, so zero! These are racist, xenophobic and anti-Hungarian parties, and Hungarians do not want this Frankenstein faction. It seems that we have managed to gather the most evil parties in Europe. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Evil?]] who believe that liberal opinion is terror, if they can't hate a good one, they can instigate against minorities. But let's see what parties Fidesz has joined forces with. Let's start with the hosts, the party of Polish Law and Justice. Jarosław Kaczyński went back centuries in time, deprived women of their rights, absolutely forbade abortion, even if there is a serious case that threatens the mother's life. In Poland, LGBTQ-free settlements are advertised on boards. And Kaczyński said that homosexuals do not necessarily need to be isolated, but they can be used, for example, to prevent teachers from thinking about the pretty little thirties. Let's continue with Matteo Salvini, who simply calls the Roma dirty gypsies on Twitter, and, by the way, he is very keen to say that even less money should be given to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. He agrees with the new Fidesz Alliance Le Pen, but when it comes to money, he doesn't squeamish because he's going to Moscow to ask Putin for support for his campaign for the French presidential election; he's going to Putin to destroy the EU. There are also beautiful European parties, real European parties, in the European quotation mark: Flemish Interests, for example, are famous for the annulment of Holocaust Denial laws, the EU is simply viewed as a freak. Last but not least, let us not forget the AfD, which is famous for denying the human effects of global warming. Great team! I know these Fidesz don't bother you yet, because they're beginning to take the same extreme view, but it's a shame that they're making fun of anti-Hungarian parties in the Frankenstein faction. Let's see who they are. Aurelian Pavalescu, a representative of the Romanian Christian Democratic National Peasant Party, was once famous for his anti-Hungarian outbursts. In 2006, he received a record ticket for a TV show in which he made anti-Hungarian comments with the owner of a football club. In particular, the Austrian Freedom Party did an anti-Hungarian campaign in 2015: he referred to the employment of the Hungarian labour force in Austria as a Tartar Tour. I think that comparing Hungarian workers to Tartars goes beyond any framework; of course, Péter Szijjártó did not ask them to join the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The new buddy is the Spanish VOX. Well, their representatives voted against the Minority SafePack proposal last year, which was a Hungarian proposal, including to protect Hungarian minorities. I wonder what the Hungarians across the border will say. These parties have no respect for women, Roma, Jews, gays or Hungarians, they hate anyone who doesn't look like them and who don't think the same thing as them. Are these the extremist parties that Fidesz really wants to join forces with? I wonder how these parties will help us to enforce Hungarian interests. According to the Dialogue, an alliance must be concluded with European parties who, in advance, are subject to the provisions of Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. They are taking Europe into the century and not XX. In the dark period of the century; with parties who respect not only human rights, they respect human dignity, but also women, minorities, including the rights of Hungarian minorities. Hungary needs European allies who help to involve more EU funds, respect Hungarian workers, and want to do something about climate change. We need European parties, we need to work with European parties who want to build Europe and the European Union and not destroy it. Thank you for the floor.
u2021-12-06-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said.
u2021-12-06-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me, Congressman, to react briefly, because what you are mentioning concerns non-governmental authority. Nevertheless, I can tell you that political forces have met at this meeting who place families at the heart of their policies rather than immigration. As far as the government is concerned, we are leading the government's current policy out of Hungarian interest. The goal is that every country, every decisive force, every dominant great power should be interested in Hungary's success. Unlike left-wing traditions, we do not ask where to sign as soon as possible, but what is the national interest. I respect your criticism of foreign policy issues, but I can't help but think that when your PM candidate and his State Department left for Warsaw a few days ago, the State Department expert couldn't even tell you who they were going to negotiate with, and you're still criticizing me. Your party president, sometimes we get the feeling that he can't speak English in court even if he's trained for hours. After that, we can only accept criticism with due respect. A bigger problem is that if we look at your travels abroad, they are touring those who are taking sides in immigration policy or in family policy contrary to the interests of Hungary. It also shows that your foreign policy tradition is that they adapt to external expectations. That they do this out of weakness or for some other reason, it's not our problem, it's yours, but the result is the same. [[11.10]] Regarding the case of Hungarians across the border: yesterday was the 5th anniversary of December. I see that you have carefully looked into what some European parties have said, what they have not voted for in the affairs of Hungarian communities abroad. Where was this voice when they campaigned against Hungarians on December 5, 2004? You were not an active politician at the time, but you joined those who allowed themselves to campaign against Hungarians, continuously, with government money and also from left-wing parties. No one has ever apologized, not so much so that your fellow Member, one of the presidents of the party, criticized the government months ago for providing protective equipment to communities across borders. We remember sitting here, sitting there in that place. And if you want to fight extremes so badly, why do you let it go? That there are still active politicians in Jobbik's ranks who wanted to list our fellow Jews here in Parliament. That's what he was talking about. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Where were you in 2004?]] Mr. Congressman, Mr. Congressman, I am also bringing this up because this Member is still active in the colours of Jobbik, and he is a Member of the European Parliament. So if you want to fight extremes, knock on your own allies first. So much for the subject you raised. I would like to raise one more thing, because in the past few days, in the past few weeks, people have been referred to in order, while your Prime Minister's candidate reported with great pride that he is seeing billions, many billionaires, including the Bige László, who is one of the richest people in the country, but not the problem, but the fact that we know what this fortune came from. We know that this man has been carteling for years, and now he wants to support your campaign. And if these companies were cartels, then the higher prices had to be paid by someone, namely Hungarian farmers. So under these circumstances, if you want to campaign like this, that's a lot of insensitiveness to farmers. And Péter Márki-Zay will wave down and show a great degree of insensitiveness, just as in other areas. Because they say it's stupid to lower energy prices. How insensitive is that? ! They're telling the price worryers that they can consume less electricity and less gas. How insensitive is that? And they're telling the people who're worried about the gas prices that they're gonna be able to use the cars nicely together. How insensitive is that? In the case of immigration, it is said that the main goal is that those who arrive here enjoy themselves, otherwise they will not harm anyone. How insensitive it is, above all, to the police and the soldiers, who are protecting the border at this moment! And that's not enough, because when someone talks about it, what your candidate for Prime Minister can say is that whoever, say, wants low energy prices and doesn't support immigration, is a fungus fed with manure, kept in the dark. And even last week, he put a shovel on it, said that only those who are the stupidest take it upon themselves. How bad is it now? ! It's time for an apology. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-06-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title "On Current Affairs." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-06-5	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The password of the green movement since the '70s is to act locally, think globally! The environmental policy of the Fidesz could be described as, so that you can complain globally, don't do anything locally! In one of the newspapers, we were able to listen to the President of the Republic's thoughts on this issue. You have to admit, there were some things you were right about. He was right that a large part of the major international players chose to do nothing, and he was also right that small-income people cannot be paid for the costs of climate change mitigation, and the polluter principle is a very good principle. However, the fact is that the criticism of the continuing green policy, which concerns Germany, partly other EU Member States, is, in fact, often wrong, but the point is not that, but it is very unnecessary in this room and in Hungarian public life. We are responsible for Hungary, we are responsible for Hungary's participation in this fight, not for their involvement in German politics. The fact is that the polluter pays the principle is a very good principle, a principle in which it is worth observing the Prime Minister's words, who said that we should not look at what they are saying, but what they are doing. If we look at the polluter pays principle, we can see that over the past 12 years zero large polluting companies have paid a total of zero forints for pollution costs in the Hungarian budget. It's kind of hard to argue with that number. The other is that the situation is actually worse, because at Fidesz the polluter pays principle is applied by having Hungarian taxpayers pay the polluters. Consider the example of ExxonMobil. I think we can agree that ExxonMobil has made a significant contribution to climate change in recent decades, and since 82, 30 billion dollars have been spent in order to lobbie climate-sceptic voices into the media, this company has received billions from the Hungarian government, i.e. from Hungarian taxpayers because of themselves. The other is Coca-Cola. Coca-Cola is the largest plastic polluter, Coca-Cola is also given a lot of money from Hungarian taxpayers, and if they said that this was a job creation, if we had distributed the tax incentives that you gave to large companies for each job you created, if you had given so much job support to a small and medium-sized enterprise, you would have been able to create about 150 jobs out of this money. But here's our favorite example, Viresol. Viresol, which is the property of Lőrinc Mészáros, the land neighbour of the Mátra Power Plant, has said that everyone, even the authorities controlled by Fidesz, has contaminated the karst water, the soil water. It was found that a procedure had started, and then the D.A. stopped it because he said that, after all, the pollution had occurred, but they stopped, so there would be no legal consequences. How much Viresol Kft paid. the Hungarian budget because of this pollution? Zero forints. How much did you get from the state? More than a billion forints. So again, the polluter didn't pay, again you made the Hungarian people pay the polluters. In connection with green policy, the President of the Republic was indeed, in which he said good things, clearly thinking about this matter, for some reason he could not say a sentence in this comment about why wind energy is practically banned in Hungary. I know, I've been told in this room once that because it's not nice, I was at the Mátra Power Plant thinking that this would definitely get into Architectural Digest, but besides aesthetic things, they couldn't make any argument about why wind power is banned. Before Secretary of State Schanda or anyone who responds, he says that wind energy is also polluting when, after that, his life cycle expires, and we have to take it somewhere, that is so, with all the energy that does not exist in thought, but in reality, it pollutes to some extent. With regard to Lake Fertő, the President of the Republic failed to speak either, and it seems that one of the most important salty lakes in Eurasia is not so important that the President of the Republic, who has declared himself green, speaks. He did not mention that you had abolished the Green Ministry, abolished the independence of the authorities, decommissioned the workers at the national park, did not mention that you would continue to produce fossil energy in Hungary. He did not mention that in the common European agricultural policy, you sided with the agricultural multik on each occasion, not with the green farmers. He also does not mention that even your court has just found out that in Kishantos they have done a terrible thing with a Hungarian value, a Hungarian ecological value. Overall, you can call your past periodical green policy green paint. They're the same as the British Petroleum who renamed himself Beyond Petroleum when he contaminated the oceans. They're doing the same thing. This is a very, very clumsy marketing stunt, and the Hungarian people can see through it. [[11.20]]
u2021-12-06-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Tamás Schanda wishes to respond to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-12-06-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The protection of our environmental heritage, the protection of the created world, is indeed a very important issue. And I can even agree with you that there is a real stake, not in words, but in action. It is therefore quite amazing to see, honourable Member, what you are doing on this subject where you are in power, because you have the opportunity to show your commitment not only at the level of words, but also in concrete action, even in the capital, where you have a mayor of the capital of the country that you propose. But we can see what you are capable of, honourable Member. In addition to declaring a climate crisis, we do not see any concrete action. When you have to choose whether you want a public park or a privatisation, you take the side of privatization when you have to choose whether an environmental heritage should be protected or built in, then the entire left-wing policy in the capital is in favour of integration. When it comes to improving and improving waste management, it does not improve or improve, but removes a quarter of the public dumpsters in Budapest. There is no reason why there is an increasing amount of dirt and garbage in Budapest. This is what you do. This is your performance, honourable Member. When they have the chance to prove it, that's how much they can prove it. Honourable Congressman, In connection with your speech, allow me also to say that when you criticize cooperation with strategic companies, when you criticize the agreements that we conclude with important investors for Hungary, and because of these agreements, we can create jobs in Hungary and protect jobs, so that we provide a living and a decent salary to Hungarian families, then you are politicalising against the Hungarian people. Mr President, when you attack to invest in Hungary, new developments and new activities to Hungary, you are pursuing the failed left-wing policy that led to unemployment above 12 percent during the governance of the left, when your allies were in the government, whose return you are working daily for. We don't want that! We do not want this, which is why we have worked in the last few years, and that is why we will work in the coming years. The fact that you mentioned the Mátra Power Plant is a good example of this, and you also dealt with this issue this weekend. You want to shut down the Mátra Power Plant, shut down a job that provides the livelihood of thousands of people in Mátraalya. You want to take the job away from people. On the other hand, we speak clearly and clearly, transforming the Mátra Power Plant in such a way that it is much more suited to the conditions necessary to protect the environmental heritage. In addition to the closure, your Prime Minister's candidate, Péter Márki-Zay, who wants nothing more than to destroy and take away the jobs of those people. This, of course, fits into the left-wing policy you are pursuing in the field of energy policy. For you, sovereignty is never, in any case, important to you, energy sovereignty is not important to you, and energy security is not important to you. You, honourable Member, would also agree with the Brussels proposal on further taxation of the energy system, which proposes that Hungarian families should pay new taxes on their homes and cars. You want to attack the reduction of the rent, this is what your candidate for Prime Minister is doing, who is demonstrating every day that he would abolish the reduction of the rent, does not agree with this, and thinks that Hungarian people should pay higher costs. Honourable Congressman, Let me also inform you that we are doing what we are doing in green policy, we have just announced the $200 billion solar tender, we are going forward in accordance with the action plan and we are carrying out the tasks ahead. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-8	Thank you very much, Secretary Schanda. At the same time, MEP László Varju, representative of DK, also applied for a pre-meeting address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-06-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to point out in advance that Secretary of State Schanda can continue his bullshit, because I would like to talk about their lack of responsibility, and if he wishes to reply further, that is what we are looking forward to. In recent years, we have become accustomed to the fact that your government is important to Hungarian people as long as they can be used as part of a good political slogan. This seems to be the case with regard to energy saving. Last week, it was found that the Hungarian Energy Efficiency Institute, based on the Hungarian government's EU recovery and resistance plan, has once again classified our country as the hosts of Europe. The government should have reported in detail on the use of the planned resources and the energy saving targets as part of its plan for the European Union. Well, the document was classified as insufficient. After all this, the Hungarian government was apparently unable to give a detailed account of the renovation of the building, and it turned out that it would still not spend any more on the renovation of the panel apartments, and did not make such energy efficiency plans. Once again, the Orbán government has demonstrated that, as before, it is not energy-friendly, nor does it appear, nor is it worth talking about its social sensitivity. The Orbán government has clearly not learned that the most valuable EU funds are those that serve people directly. However, the European Union would provide support for this. Although it is true that it is not a solution that fits in with the debt, it would actually reduce the cost of the apartments, but it would not increase the bills of the friends. Thanks to these resources, the wallet of the Hungarian people, the residents of the Újpest condominium and the protection of our environment in Kápszmegyer can be protected at the same time. But to you in the pro-government benches, it seems to me that it doesn't matter. For you, energy saving is just an empty political slogan, the opportunity for Hungarian people to withdraw money. If that were not the case, Mr State Secretary, if you were in fact concerned with the interests of Hungarian families, you would not have submitted a plan to the European Union at a rough, elementary school level. If the reduction of the energy costs of the apartments for you were not only part of a cheap propaganda campaign, if they wanted to serve a different purpose than filling the pages of the Hungarian Nation, Origo, with lies, then here would have been a great opportunity to carve on family expenses. But you once again said no to the interests of the Hungarian people. Just like they said no when they shut down the panel program. The panel program that made it possible for hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families to renovate their apartments in poorly insulated, outdated panel houses before 2010. The panel programme that could be financed from European Union funds without any part of itself; and the panel programme that, after your outrageous activity and opposition, another government will certainly be willing to re-launch, extended to condominiums. Hungary needs a government that will actually focus on how best to reduce the costs of families, and those who face difficulties at the end of the month. You know, it's quite an opener that, while your prime minister is singing a victory report on your energy policy every week, one in six households in Hungary suffers from energy poverty. This means that every six Hungarian households are preparing for the winter without uncertainty how they will pay the price of heating or other basic energy services needed for a decent life. [[11.30]] Because we believe that this is not only for the few, but also for the many in Hungary. You know, fewer yachts and helicopters, more safe-paid family bills. That's what this is all about. If you had any sense of good feeling, you wouldn't have been able to measure success in how to heat your swimming pool cheaper, because perhaps this is the real question among your friends who are rich in taxpayers' money, perhaps this is the real question among your supporters, but I have to say that your energy policy has failed badly. You said no to the renovations of the flats, the people of condos, the development of these families. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Your decision took away the possibility of housing security from the families in Újpest. Thank you very much.
u2021-12-06-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[László Varju: Oh, new responder? Where's Secretary Schanda? He's here, and he's not answering? You refuse to answer?]]
u2021-12-06-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I listened with great interest to your speech on the issue of energy prices, all the more so because you have clearly tried to confront your Prime Minister's candidate in this speech, because Péter Márki-Zay said the opposite of you. [[László Varju: Secretary of State Schanda...]] the issue of energy prices and the question of reduction of overhead costs. He attacked these measures and we'll talk about it later, how [[László Varju: He attacked the debt lie. The president's ringing the bell.]] And so far, it's been your policy, so I think it's untrue what you've said in many ways. Firstly, let me respond to your comments on the EU Restoration Fund, i.e. RRF. This is a credit facility that the European Union, the Member States, have jointly taken in order to mitigate the economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic and to help citizens and national businesses. This is a joint borrowing commitment, and in fact the aim here would be for all countries to have access to these funds as soon as possible and to be able to help, I say once again, to people and businesses in difficulty due to the coronal virus epidemic. These are served by projects covered by different components included in the Hungarian plan. The situation is that Brussels does not approve this Restoration Fund for political reasons. Professional discussions took place during the summer, when the Child Protection Act came. At first they tried to hide it, but then the politicians in Brussels could do this less and less effectively because they refused to accept the child protection provisions of the Child Protection Act, or they continued to attack Hungary in relation to the fight against illegal immigration and other political issues on the table in Brussels. And what did the left one do, what did your federal system do? He did not stand up for the interests of Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses, he did not say that there was a place for ideological battles here, but for this money to appear as soon as possible in the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian citizens would receive this money as soon as possible, but instead chose the opposite path, explicitly hiding it, and you actively lobbied in Brussels to produce different false news so that these funds would not arrive in Hungary. I think it's quite outrageous and quite unacceptable. Therefore, if someone has butter behind their ears, it is you and your political allies, and if you really ever want to do something that will help Hungary, then go to Brussels and lobby for those resources to arrive as soon as possible, and the unacceptable political pressure on Hungary in the fight against child protection and illegal migration should be eliminated. So this is where fair politics begins, I think, Congressman. The other part is the reduction of the rent. However, it is quite amazing that you are trying to set yourself and your political allies as the protector of the Hungarian people, while the statistics show that by 2010 you were in the government, i.e. between 2002 and 2010, the overhead costs of families in Europe were extremely high, compared to their wages, the Hungarian families paid the most for gas and electricity. While you were in government position, you raised the cost of overhead 15 times, the price of electricity doubled and residential natural gas tripled. After 2010, the cost of natural gas, electricity and district heating decreased by 25 percent on average, resulting in savings of HUF 2100 billion to Hungarian families by the end of August 2021. If it were not for this reduction, against which you speak every day in the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian families would have to pay an average of 386 thousand forints per month and 32 thousand forints per month. And how is Peter Márki-Zay involved in all this? Because he was the one who presented their sincere program in this regard, which sounds like the reduction of the overhead is a hocus pocus, it is easy to give, but it will be very difficult to withdraw. He does not understand the importance of the social component in energy prices [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and every single time since then, he continues to speak against the reduction of the rent and against the Hungarian citizens supporting the reduction of the rent. Talk to me at home, you have something to rethink. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Bertalan Tóth, Head of Group of the MSZP, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2021-12-06-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, What Fidesz government members and politicians are doing in the current social and health crisis is increasingly surreal. While Hungary was once again at the forefront of mortality statistics, we lost more than 35 thousand of our countrymen. Miklós Kásler, Minister for Social Affairs and Health, had the most important task of signing a film production agreement with Serbia. Bravo! This must help overworked doctors, nurses, and hundreds of thousands who mourn and/or lack sacrifice. Shame on you! Then there is László Kövér, who has become very active recently, but just not in solving the social and health crisis. After his former duty speech last year, he encouraged secret servants to consider those who are Western-oriented as enemies, because they are not patriots, only those who are nationalists. Now, in the spirit of the Advent period, peace, love and cooperation, he called the left-wing one a hatebreaker and a traitor. I'm truly sorry you've come this far, I'm sorry you don't understand, there's nothing to be proud of. Demise democracy and the rule of law, the return of national wealth and EU money through fidesz strómanes, the destruction of education and health, the deepening of poverty and the dismantling of the social care system have taken away the safety of the elderly from hundreds of thousands of pensioners, they have taken away millions of entrepreneurs and workers, and they have deprived millions of young adults of the chance of a better life. If you feel hatred, it's the righteous anger of the masses abandoned by the Fidesz government, and it's not the left that's responsible. You should also consider your own involvement. In the middle of the social and health crisis, Viktor Orbán is busy organizing a right-wing, anti-integration and extreme nationalist group to beat the European Union from the inside on behalf of Putin. We have come to the conclusion that the term "European" and "Western" for Fidesz is now a curse word. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the end of the fine-tuning period, honour and honor are not given with the party book. Ultranationalist can also be anti-national and Western-friendly patriots. The European Union is a great historical achievement, and to curb the development and strengthening of integration is not simply nonsense, more than a crime. The ultranationalism of Fidesz, its anti-democratic arrangement, can be called unpatriotic. However, we want to build and increase this country, whether it is common money, a European minimum wage, health or education at European level. We will not allow a political gambler who is drunken with his own voice to ruin the lives of millions. Ladies and gentlemen, The old anti-democrat party, Fidesz, has driven many well-trained young people to the declining West. Since 2010, about 100,000 Hungarian children have been born abroad. More and more career beginners are looking for an outbreak in Hungary, one in five Hungarian young people plans to move to the West. [[11.40]] A better school, a higher salary, a home, a safe living, less hatred and a smaller division, that's what we have to compete with. We can see that Fidesz can't do this. The solution will be to change government next spring and start a new era with a social, chance-making turn. That is why we are taking the initiative to become part of the joint agenda of the united opposition to double the family allowance, children and children. We increase the initial amount of baby bond and annual state support. We reduce emigration by means of decent living salaries and careers. We're going to get disadvantaged children caught up in an equal opportunity education. In order to reduce the housing crisis, 15 000 modern, low-cost apartments are transferred annually to young people's start-ups. This would be a real help to build a home. Realize for our future together, Hungary! Thank you very much.
u2021-12-06-14	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr Group Leader. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, who wants to answer.
u2021-12-06-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Several topics have been addressed by the congressman. As far as hate is concerned, if you have the heart to take action against hatred, I ask with respect that when you see the next O1G stickers, you speak to your adhesives. Next time your candidate for Prime Minister is wondering what the lamp irons could be used for, please object. Next time your real boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány, threatens anyone with prison! Or you're threatening to make artists run for their lives, so please object. Or if another left-wing party president threatens to ban journalists, I ask you with great respect to protest. If you don't do it, then the call you've published is quite simply uncredited. As regards foreign policy aspects, we have already discussed this. The fact that you're accusing the Poles of Putin friendship is quite amazing. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Absolutely amazing incompetence...]] I don't expect you to commend the government's foreign policy, that's not what the opposition is supposed to do, but at least look at the fundamental facts of the Polish case. And EU membership, we have said it a thousand times, is in national interest. But the fact that we are EU members does not mean that we do not raise our voice if we see phenomena that are contrary to the interests of the country. If you want to open the borders of this country by legal or physical means, we will raise our voice. If they insist where they should not, because they have no powers, for example, in the areas of child protection and education, we will raise our voice while raising our voice even if they are not strong in an area where they should be strong. Think of how incompetent the Brussels institutional system was when we were in the first months of the epidemic. Let's think about getting the vaccine. We are not guiding our foreign policy and our EU policy from what is expected of Brussels, but from what is the fundamental national interest. What you call a social crisis: I do not know that when you say that the government is doing nothing, you are serious about it, or you are very aware of the facts, but you are not interested. The fact is that despite the economic difficulties caused by the epidemic, the Hungarian economy is growing stronger, taxes are falling, wages are rising again, and every generation receives more support than before. Let's look at the wages. The minimum wage will be 200,000. There's still room for that, but it's almost three times as much as it used to be. The government also decided to receive six months' arms money for members of the professional staff. Nurses' earnings increase by 21 percent in January, which is part of a 72 percent wage increase programme, while the largest medical wage increase programme in recent decades is progressing. From January, the wages of social workers will increase by 20 percent, the salaries of daycare workers and cultural workers will increase by 20 percent, teachers and kindergarten teachers will increase by 10 percent. What is the amount of wages, while the epidemic has caused great and great difficulties for the economy, wages have already increased by nearly 10 percent, by 9.1 percent. This increase in jobs is because jobs have also increased in recent years, and wages have also been made possible by tax cuts. The government has kept its word and further reduces the taxes on work. In 2009, businesses were charged with 33.5 percent tax, and next year this rate will be less than half, 13 percent. This means taxes on work. The contribution to vocational training will be abolished and the social contribution tax will be reduced by 2.5 percentage points, and the income tax, which was up to 36 percent in your time, will certainly be equal to 15 percent; if it is up to us, there will certainly be no more than that. Okay, okay, but what else does the government do besides tax cuts? For example, it grants tax refunds to nearly two million Hungarians in hundreds of thousands of sizes. Every generation can count on government support. Young people will be exempt from tax from 1 January in 25 years, and pensioners will receive the 13th month's pension after the 80,000 HUF pension premium; what you have taken from them, Congressman, will be returned. So, all in all, while you've been pre-chosen for months, started smearing campaigns, obstructed protection against the epidemic, the government created jobs, reduced taxes, extended family support, and restored the 13th month's pension. If we weren't on the campaign and you weren't in the benches on the left, you might agree with me that this isn't enough, but it's much more than nothing. We're going on this road, even if we don't get any support from you, but we don't get any support from you. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-16	Thank you, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, Member Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, also submitted an address before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-06-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to many current questions, I would like to share some thoughts about the most recent. Unfortunately, people are becoming increasingly mistrustful in the government, and thus also in the management of the epidemic. As a volunteer rescue worker, I would like to tell you my own experience of the mistakes that have been made in dealing with this epidemic with the intention of helping, so that we do not have to die for many of our fellow Hungarians due to a series of mistakes, because unfortunately, we see that the majority of the people died in our country on the basis of numbers. First and foremost, I think that there was too much political decision for people instead of professional decision. For example, they had a full-built match when we saw that the number of infected people was rising. The government and the experts they spoke often said that they were against themselves in a few months. The video of contradictions, such as Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's position on compulsory vaccination, is shocking. I assume you've seen this video. You saw him, didn't you? They didn't test much. Even though I asked for a decision to distribute PCR tests, to make them available free of charge to citizens, several billion forints worth of PCR tests have now been destroyed. The target was to track the virus. People's lives were on it. There's been a lot of shit going on. I'll tell you one thing: overpriced ventilators, which weren't respirators, are just breathing aids. Uncoordinated communication on vaccinations, gentlemen of the state. The person who was vaccinated did it because he tried to trust the scientists, for whom, according to the Hippocratic oath, the highest warning is. * Don't harm me! Or because they wanted to avoid intensive care. As a health worker, I'm one of them. However, there are many who have been vaccinated for the non-immunity immunity card so that they are not restricted. This gave me a false sense of security, because the vaccinated person can catch the virus and infect it. For example, some have not been submitted to themselves due to the long-term effects of vaccines, neither the manufacturer nor the government has taken responsibility for this. We need credible and accessible data. As a result, mandatory vaccination should not be carried out in such a way. As Viktor Orbán said a few months ago. I'd like to comment on some of the things that come from living a day. In the emergency department, when we bring a patient in, it's the nurses' first complaint, they're shorthanded, and they're transferring the few people from the emergency department to the Covids, which is the first reception point, all the patients are reporting there either on their own feet, or they're being boarded by the National Rescue Service, or they're covids or they're otherwise ill. They're taking people from there. But we can also see that specialized clinics are being interrupted, outpatient clinics that are necessary for basic care. Did I mention to you the PCR tests that it wouldn't have been better to give everyone free access to the PCR test, not through a GP if they wanted to test you? [[11.50]] Then the news came that the GPs were given 500,000 quick tests for antigens. Well, congratulations, but the person next to him hasn't been told that the 800,000 antigen tests previously received have expired in GPs, because, unfortunately, GPs are not fit to do antigen tests there, because they have the basic rules. The most important, honourable Members, is the running time of an ambulance. As the work on ambulances increased by 30-40 percent during the Covid period, this means that they carry out 4500-5000 case tasks on a daily basis, and their running time also increased. In my constituency, Tapolca, there's no active inpatient care, we have to take a patient 50 kilometers away. Let's calculate if a covid patient takes the ambulance 50 kilometers, we're looking at a winter period, because now it's December, it's about an hour, he's gonna hand over the patient, and he's gonna stand there for 40 minutes to sterilize, and then he's gonna go back to his station, so we're gonna be out of rescue for 2.5 hours. In a 12-hour shift, should we calculate how many patients you can treat, transport? Four. Wouldn't it have been nice to keep that medical, surgical ward that you closed? Please answer these questions, Mr Secretary of State, and preferably not as Minister Kásler at the hearing of the Commission, where he has not answered any of the questions not only for me but also for the members of the Fidesz Committee.
u2021-12-06-18	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-12-06-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, I'd like to thank you and all the volunteers who help protect you during the plague. I think this is a very important thing; Hungary's ability to defend itself successfully and effectively against the epidemic is the fact that the protection against the Hungarian epidemic is also recognised internationally, thanks to doctors, nurses and volunteers. You can do this at the emergency services, whose budget was HUF 26 billion a decade ago when we started governing, but next year it will be HUF 65 billion instead of HUF 26 billion. He said it was important for the ambulances to make it on time. This is supported by 34 new rescue stations compared to 2010, and 107 rescue stations have been renovated so that ambulances can move faster. You know, it was somewhere over 8 years old, almost 8.5 years old, the average age of ambulances in Hungary, and now the average age of ambulances is well under 5 years. That's how we were able to help the work of the people who worked in the rescue, and hats off to them. Honourable Congressman, Before dealing with the government, it would be worth looking around on its side, say, to ask Peter James that his sentence was useful when he tried to dissuade the Hungarian people in the inoculation by saying that there is some Chinese stuff used to inoculate a million Africans or a million Chinese. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is how he talked about the vaccine, which, according to an article published in an international microbiological journal, saved the lives of about 4000-4500 people, Chinese and Russian vaccines in Hungary, because we were able to put them out faster, and you talked about it as something Chinese. Perhaps it would have been worth talking to your party president before. Or did Hungary's transition from the second wave to the third wave at the beginning of this year, around February, help the defense, how did your fellow parties speak when the number of infected people identified was rather rising, in the thousands or even thousands of magnitudes of the day, and what did your party president say? You have to open it, you have to open it, or we'll lock you up for good. What did Tibor Nunkovics, your groupmate, say? It's time for a controlled opening. What did your other groupmate, Róbert Dudás, say? It's time to move back to opening. Then why didn't you tell them when the number of new infected was high that we should not be talking about opening up, but about what you are talking about, honourable Member, that patients should be treated, and that everyone is needed in this regard. Compared to this, when hospitals were in a more difficult position, such sentences were said by Jobbik, I could quote the other parties on the left. He says there's a lot of politics and there's not a lot of expertise in evaluating the epidemic. Let's look at policy-free evaluations. Here was Tedros Adhanom Gebreyesus WHO Director General, who thanked the Hungarian government. He did not say, like you, but thanked the Hungarian Government for handling the epidemic well. And here was Hans Kluge, he has visited Hungary several times, he is the European Director of WHO, who said that they are conducting an exemplary vaccination campaign in Hungary, consider the vaccine a life-saving tool, and now pay attention to the issue of which goes beyond geopolitics. Hans Kluge, the WHO leader in Europe, said exactly how good it is that Hungary did not make political decisions, but considered people's lives to be the most important and that people's health was the most important. He was looking for a vaccine to protect human health, a vaccine to protect human life. He did not see in which country this was produced and whose geopolitical interest it was in, but in the interests of the Hungarian people. You're saying that there should be less politics in it. Well, that's exactly where we didn't make a political decision. All other European countries, who refused to use Eastern vaccines, made a political decision because they did not use these vaccines because of the inadequacy of the vaccines, but because of their country of origin, although in Hungary, thank God, we were at least able to save 4500 people's lives, and we were able to save their health. And I strongly reject what you said, honourable Member, that in Hungary there would have been a death surplus in excess of other countries, all European countries. If you look at last year 2020, which is a full year compared to 2019, in Hungary, thank God, there was a lower mortality surplus than in France, Malta, Croatia, Portugal, Slovakia, as the EU average than in Lithuania, as in Romania, as in the Czech Republic, as in Bulgaria, as in Belgium, as in Slovenia, as in Poland, Italy and Spain, the Hungarian data is more favourable than in these countries. But if we look at this year's data, which will obviously be complete at the end of the year, we also see that among the Visegrád Four in Hungary, thank God, the data is the best, and there are hardly any Central European countries, Austria, Slovenia and Croatia, where these data are somewhat more favourable than we do in Hungary. Thank you to Hungarian health workers for not stopping health care as you can see in Austria or Germany today. This is why many Hungarian people's health and lives have been saved. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-06-20	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-06-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As we get closer to the end of 2021, we should take account of Hungary's economic exams in the last difficult year. The person who is watching the global threats now posed by the corona virus, migration and the energy crisis is aware that Hungary has not been in a simple situation either, as Europe is characterised by rising energy prices, drowned farms, commuting households and growing discontent. But those who watch the world also need to realize that Hungary is different. In fact, we can say that the budget for 2021 has been successfully tested in the shadow of both the pandemic, the energy crisis and the migratory pressure. What could be a better example of this than the fact that in the second quarter the Hungarian economy was able to grow by 18 percent, and it is also a great achievement that we were able to maintain this pace of economic development, since the third quarter also produced a result of more than 6 percent. At the same time, these results were not brought together by the wind, as the government has broken off with the crisis management policy of the last two decades, which has always been based on austerity. As a result, investments have reached a record this year, the Hungarian 27 percent investment rate is the highest in the EU, and the success of re-launching the economy indicates that more people are working in Hungary today than before the virus. In addition, although left-wing and Brussels are attacking the reduction of the overhead, we were able to protect this, and even the government was able to extend it to fuel prices, and even our border protection expenditures remained stable. The year 2021 promises to be so dynamic that it is even possible for the government to return the 13th month pension taken by the left next year next to the pension premium of HUF 80,000, to release the pension for young people, and to give the family members their taxes and raise the minimum wage to HUF 200,000. [[12.00]] This is unique not only in Hungary, but in the history of all of Europe, such crisis management and support measures have never been taken in Europe. And speaking of that, we also need to remember how the people of the past felt about these measures all along. We could see that the budget and all its elements were constantly being attacked; the freedom of young people, while, when they were on the government, Ferenc Gyurcsány said to the young people that it was possible to leave Hungary. Then they attacked the pension premium and even the 13th month pension, while it was taken just during left-wing government. Péter Márki-Zay called the return of the 13th month's pension a buffet. It also shows that he would pick up where his boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány, left off. They're also attacking the cost reduction. Péter Márki-Zay also called those who supported the reduction of the cost of energy, which was kept in the dark and fed with manure. In fact, he told the Hungarian people that he thought it would be better for them to consume less electricity, gas and water. If it were up to the left, of course, there would be no family tax relief, because we know that all family support would be taken away from people. Ferenc Gyurcsány called the family tax refund unreasonable and vicious, and also considers the family tax relief for children a perverse redistribution. In Hungary, we had to deal with a major economic crisis three times, unfortunately the left was in power twice. They have always resorted to austerity, so the Hungarian people could even think that there was no other way to deal with the crisis but by austerity. However, we have proven that crisis management, based on tax reduction, support for families, businesses and the elderly, is not only an alternative to the left, but it is the only one that can succeed. This proves that Hungary will be one of the highest economic growth in the Union after the crisis. This policy must therefore continue in the future, and we must not go back to the failing policy of Gyurcsány, because Hungary must go forward and not back. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-22	Thank you very much, Congressman István Hollik. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Tamás Schanda wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-12-06-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, After 2010 we started building a new, work-based economy, instead of a socialist type of economic policy based on aid, Gyurcsány, because we believe in job creation, investment support, tax reduction and support for families. Over the past decade, the national civilian government has created a crisis-resistant economic policy with the help of these instruments, so patriot Hungarian economic protection has been effective during the coronal virus epidemic. Hungary was able to recover from the crisis with record speed, among the first in the world. The economic performance before the crisis was achieved by the Hungarian economy already in the second quarter of 2021, while we are well aware that the world economy is estimated to be able to reach its earlier performance only by the end of 2022. Since 2013, and it is important to stress that every year Hungarian growth exceeds the EU average. Between 2013 and 2019, Hungarian economic growth was among the top five in the EU. These are clear evidence of all the instruments used by the Hungarian economic policy of patriotism in the last ten years. In addition, I can inform the Honourable Parliament that according to Eurostat's calculations, Hungarian labour incomes are the most crisis-resistant in Europe, i.e. despite the difficulties, the purchasing power of wages has been best maintained in Hungary. It is also important to add that, while between 2002 and 2010, during the failed left-wing government, the net real wages in Hungary were increased by only 13 percent between 2010 and today. This result and this particularly high performance have been preserved despite the coronal virus epidemic. The model of the labour-based society therefore established the crisis resistance of the Hungarian economy, and more people are working in Hungary than ever since the change of regime. During the corona virus crisis, the Hungarian unemployment rate was maintained among the best 3-6 in the European Union. In addition, today there are 50,000 more people working in the IT sector and the professional scientific sector that generate higher added value and can pay higher wages than before the coronal virus epidemic. Hungarian employment, starting from a drastic break-off, has thus caught up with the EU average over a decade, and after catching up, it has also left it behind, just as we Hungarians are now among the best performers instead of the worst places in terms of unemployment. So what Ferenc Gyurcsány has been taken away is all returned by the national civilian government, because this economic policy makes it possible, patriotic economic policy makes it possible, because we have introduced an internationally recognised family support system, restarted housing support, increased wages and returned the 13th month pension to pensioners. The successful re-launch of the economy will also allow the personal income tax of parents raising children to be refunded to them by 15 February. Overall, this could amount to nearly HUF 600 billion for two million parents in February 2022. I can also report that, according to the agreement between employers and employees, the minimum wage will increase from January to HUF 200,000 and the guaranteed minimum wage will increase to HUF 260 thousand. Next year, the public burden will be reduced from 17 per cent to 13 per cent, the 1.5 per cent vocational training contribution will be abolished and the social contribution tax on enterprises will be reduced by 2.5 per cent. In addition, compared to the original plans, the full 13th month's pension will be granted earlier, already in February 22. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-24	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-06-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There's no such thing. A month ago, Gergely Christmas tried to smear the plan to sell City Hall with that sentence. Then, after all, it turned out that a study had been carried out, and rather than rejecting the idea, even this autumn, meaningful negotiations were held with investors. The manager of the trustee also confirmed on a recording that the mayor's cabinet had discussed the sale of the 3.9 ha downtown area. In fact, it's been mentioned that they're going to build City Hall Park first, because they promised, and then a year later, they're going to tear it down and build it. By the way, we also learned that the manager of the trustee can bypass public procurement. Before, Christmas threatened to press charges, but when it turned out that Balázs Barts, the Asset Management Centre Zrt. His Chairman-CEO had discussed the matter, and this did not have any meaningful consequences. What raises even more questions is the appearance of Gordon Bajnai. The former Prime Minister of the Left at one of the business talks also told us what the problem with the sale was from a management point of view. I quote: This is a six-party coalition, which is a gift. Someone here smells the possibility of a deal, a deal, and then everyone wants to put you in as a middleman so they can ask for a commission. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[12.10]] He also said that there are sharks in such a great coalition, and there are many of them in the lake, and everyone has subterranean areas. And it's an amazing defense that, according to Bajnai Gordon, you've been provoked into this conversation. The provocation was so successful that, before the conversation, he quickly called one or another of his fellow warriors and was informed in detail about the details of the sale of City Hall. And then, let's face it, he was completely, truly surprised that he was talking about the possibility of selling City Hall at this meeting himself. The former Prime Minister has a sense of humor. Meanwhile, we also learned that Csaba Horváth, mayor of Zugló, did not like the joke, he did not like the performance of the former Prime Minister, as he said that the material was born based on the production of amateur actors. The mayor tried to be humorous. He found out that Fidesz was actually trying to buy City Hall. We know, of course, that if there is trouble, Christmas has never been there, has never seen or heard anything, nor is it his fault that we have to go to City Hall at all. Of course, he was still unable to provide reassuring answers, and new developments continue to be made public. It turns out that the capital wants to sell dozens of real estate, including downtown, newbuda, mountain and Újpest. What's most shocking is the case of the Óbuda Swamp. Here, from the green area, a 268,000 square meter section was separated to build a residential park, new real estate. This is their alleged green policy. Two important conclusions can be drawn from the whole scandal. In the left-handed capital there is a mafia, a commission system, and they divide the market among themselves. The former prime minister of the left gives advice to investors on how to close the deal. The left continued to act in the same place as the capital, where he left off in 2010. The people of the Gyurcsány-Bajna era have returned, which is why the city hall is full of corruption cases. The left-wing press can no longer maintain the delusion that Christmases are the wonderful unicorns of fairy tales. Now it's clear to everyone that you're not unicorns, you're goats. Now they're trying to feed us that they don't like cabbage. These cases show what we can expect if it were up to the left: if it were up to the left, they would sell the country out again. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-06-26	Thank you very much, Mr László Böröcz. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-12-06-27	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It is not the first time these words are spoken in the Hungarian Parliament, especially given that what you have outlined here in five minutes is a drop in the sea. In fact, a very good impression, proof of the old saying that anyone who has not learned and does not know his own history is punished for having to live again. Today we are witnessing where, in recent times, left-wing leadership has been given to a given area, a particular settlement, the capital city, what is expected of the whole country, if in these areas this practice is. We also always say that many times, but I am convinced that this must always be said, because human consciousness is just so much that it likes to forget the bad, so it should be borne in mind that these, which you have listed here, in connection with Budapest and City Hall and in relation to a more spectacular real estate deal and real estate deal, there is nothing new about them. There is nothing surprising, there is nothing new, and it is not even new among the characters, because a significant part of the people you listed are not new, it was here five years ago, ten years ago, twenty years ago. In fact, they've been here before. Honourable Congressman, If we look at spontaneous privatisation before and during the regime change, this was the last left-wing government, the Németh government, then in the privatisation at that time the very important elements of traditional national wealth, such as Tungsram, Ganz companies, Chinoin, Hungária Insurance, Biogal or Medicor, not before 2010, but for a period of one to two or three or four years before the regime change, were included in a series of transactions that you have now reported in connection with a property. During the change of regime, HungarHotels, Hungexpo, Danubius, Magyar Aszfalt, Paper Industries, Csepel Works' Machine Factory, the FÉG Weapons &amp; Gas Equipment Factory were largely held in foreign hands during the privatisation programmes; during the period between 94-98 and this is not a matter of emotion; these are facts in the Magyar Kereskedelmi Bank, Budapest Bank, Hungarian Credit Bank, Takarék, Mezőbank, FőGÁZ and all gas suppliers that supplied gas to Hungarian households and the Hungarian economy; the various stages of MOL privatisation; the sales of power plants, Tisza Power Plant and Budapest. Speaking of the capital city: in 95-96 the privatisation of the Metropolitan Waterworks took place in French hands - and in 97 the Metropolitan Channel Works, which is still owned abroad to this day. If we look at other names, that is, under the Medgyessy-Gyurcsány-éra; I just list: Postabank, Konzumbank, Budapest Liszt Ferenc Airport, National Book Publisher, Antenna Hungária; and at the end of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai era, Malév and MÁV Cargo, i.e. the sale of MÁV freight. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a very sad list, and I think that from time to time it is a list, which has resulted in the majority of strategic industries and monopolistic companies in Hungary taking over foreign hands and endangering the heating, lighting, energy supply, transport and food industry of the Hungarian population; everything that is needed for the everyday life of a nation. This is what you have just projected for an example of a left-wing government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-06-28	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Attila Móring to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2021-12-06-29	Dear Parliament, János Bencsik, independent; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Péter Ovádi, Fidesz; Anett Bősz, DK; Bence Tuzson, Fidesz; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Sándor Székely, independent; Csaba Nagy, Fidesz; Zsolt Becsó, Fidesz; László Hajdu, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; Tamás Herczeg, Fidesz.
u2021-12-06-30	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12:19 p.m., we'll begin questioning. Dear Parliament, Mr. Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance: "Do you still think that the President of the Central Bank has nothing to do with economic policy, that the cobbler should stay with him? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Balczó has the floor.
u2021-12-06-31	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Colleagues! Dear Secretary of State, On the day of the meeting of the Parliament on 20 September, I asked how the government took account of the President of the National Bank of Hungary's findings on economic policy. I quote the reply of the Secretary of State: The President of the Central Bank does not have the task of making economic policy statements, so it is not the government's duty to evaluate them either. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, as far as I know, monetary policy is an instrument of economic policy, and it's being exercised by the central bank. [[12.20]] It is easy to see that setting the relevant interest rate or influencing the exchange rate of the euro has a direct impact on the economy. In György Matolcsy's new analysis, while partly recognising the government's performance, he expresses a number of warnings: "It is not a deterioration of a balance indicator, but we will be next to all the countries that have planned the EU's two highest deficits by 2022. Of course, we know the reason for the lack: it's an election year. Hungary has not been able to improve gross government debt compared to the region in the years before the crisis. In the event of an external shock, the Hungarian financial system is the most vulnerable in the region. Our country's situation has been deteriorating for over a year. It is necessary to release part of the public investment that generates deficits but does not strengthen competitiveness. By György Matolcsy. This will not be easy, since the oligarchs must be fed. And again, I ask the Secretary of State how do you intend to take these critical findings into account? Do you still believe that the President of the Central Bank has nothing to do with economic policy and does not make a statement on this? Do you think that means the cobbler should stay on top of it? Thank you for the opportunity.
u2021-12-06-32	Thank you very much, Congressman Balczó. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-12-06-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The tasks of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank are governed by a separate law. The so-called central bank law states that the primary objective of the MNB is to achieve and maintain price stability. The same law also states, inter alia, that without compromising the primary objective, the central bank supports the maintenance of the stability of the financial intermediary system, increasing its resilience, ensuring its sustainable contribution to economic growth and the economic policy of the government by means available. The same law also provides that the members of the MNB and its organs, such as the President of the Central Bank, are independent in carrying out their duties and duties under the law. They shall neither seek nor take instructions from the Government nor from the European Central Bank and some issues relating to financial supervision from the institutions, bodies and offices of the European Union. The law obliges the government and other organisations to respect this principle and do not attempt to influence the members of the MNB and its organs, such as the President of the Central Bank, in the performance of their duties. I must add that not only is the MNB independent of the government, but the government is also independent of the central bank. On this basis, it can be said not only that it is not an obligation or a duty for the government to evaluate the findings of the central bank president, but that, in view of the independence of the central bank, it would not be lawful and appropriate to draw up an opinion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]]
u2021-12-06-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dezső, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology: - Are you deliberately discriminating Budapest? It's an address. [[Zoltán Balczó consults Miklós Soltész.]] I believe Dezso, and that's all I'm talking about.
u2021-12-06-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. According to your order, the public pays the cost of transporting waste not to the companies providing the service, but to a state-owned waterhead, the so-called kukaholding. And you will determine the amount of money and when to pay the companies. According to their new regulation issued on 2 November, the majority of municipal-owned service companies will be reimbursed for the costs they have not paid so far. However, an astounding exception has been made to this rule: the service provider in whose territory the population density exceeds 10 times the national average is not eligible for this reimbursement. Now, which one is this one town? That's right, Budapest. According to your decree, only the service provider in Budapest does not want to reimburse its reasonable costs. This will shorten the capital and the population living here by 2.9 billion forints. You have a back and forth manic Budapest phobia. Last time they tried to steal 12 billion, now almost 3,000 million forints. I ask Mr Secretary of State that he was aware that they were once again giving their name to a regulation specifically stealing from the capital's population. If so, I expect an explanation as to why the service provider in Budapest is not entitled to reimbursement of its costs. If you were not aware of the discriminatory condition of Budapest, please state: when will it be abolished?
u2021-12-06-36	Thank you, Congressman, notary. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-12-06-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Above all, it would be good for the left-wing leadership of the capital to finally do its job and not to deal with real estate poo-poo at the town hall full of sharks. [[Depreciation in opposition ranks.]] Unfortunately, we have to say, because that is what we see and feel every day, that Budapest is getting dirtier and stinkier, drifting towards inability to live. Mayor Gergely Christmas, one third of the public trash cans in Budapest and one quarter of them were discharged. [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] And what's left is actually completely useless because they're pouring their eyes out. It seems to you, honourable Member, that Budapest is only important as long as the real estates, as we have all heard, can be squandered by personalised applications for commission to certain circles, because I quote what we have also heard: "Everyone wants money." So, honourable Member, the thing is that if you cut Budapest short here, it is based on the recordings and unfortunately no one else but your own left-wing leadership. On the other hand, the government's aim is to make Budapest a viable, developing, functioning city a real home for the people living here and a worthy capital for Hungary. The government therefore provided significant support for the development and operation of Budapest to the Municipality of Budapest, one of the biggest beneficiaries of state aid. I would also like to inform you that the amendment of the fee regulation on 2 July has put the financing system of public services on a new basis and has also abolished the previous tariff ceiling, ensuring the financing of the real costs of public service providers. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This will allow the continuous and undisturbed provision of public service activities. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Varju, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "Why do you want to bleed out the local government of hempes?" It's an address. Mr László Varju has the floor.
u2021-12-06-39	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Today it seems that it is a day that after the sharking, sharking and sharking of Secretary Schanda, the Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State will now have to answer. We know that it has been a very serious trauma for you, Mr. Secretary of State, the loss of the 2019 municipal elections. You will do whatever it takes to remove the Fidest, to remove all possible sources and punish people. Budapest knows this well, as we have heard from my fellow believer. However, there is a more interesting example of their small-scale revenge policy than the capital city, and this is the war against the local government of hempes. Remember, this is the city where you were also replaced in 2019, and after the election, a local government employee tried to remove evidence of a derelict Fidesz leadership by taking probative documents to collect your child's paper. [[12.30]] Now Miklós Horthy could have turned around in his grave, so the police had to return the documents. At that time, of course, one of the fidesz bricks that multiply into fungus style, instead of going to prison, was given a job at the government office just to record how the Fidesz criminal organization helps its local felons. In this city, you have now come up with an end to the public work programme: for said reasons, you have imposed a totally illegal penalty of HUF 5.5 million through the government office, and you say that until it is paid, you cannot, for example, buy seed for the next year's public work programme, so it has become uncertain that there will be a public work programme next year. In the meantime, a year and a half ago, a post-funded road repair job was not paid for 44 million HUF. Dear Secretary of State, Why do they want to bleed out the government of hemp? Please respond.
u2021-12-06-40	Thank you very much, Congressman Varju. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2021-12-06-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congressman! First of all, let me make a comment on the evaluation of the results of the election in 2019: you know that this assessment does not correspond to reality. As regards the specific case and its background, I would like to state that the government did not want and does not want to bleed out either the authorities of hemp and other municipalities. The national civilian government was the largest ally of the settlements, this government, which was almost... [[László Varju intervenes.]] Congressman, if you'd just listen to me. I know you're having a hard time with reality, but please do me a favor and listen to me. So almost 1400 billion HUF of debt from municipalities and in the 2021 budget the support of local authorities is 17 percent higher than in the previous year. With regard to your specific question, as regards the removal of documents, I can say that the Karcag Police Department ordered the investigation on 27 February 2020 and that there was no criminal offence to be committed in the course of the proceedings, and that the decision of the Karcag Police Department on 8 September 2020 was therefore terminated, against which no complaint was received, honourable Member. The part of your question that the police had to return the documents is not correct, Congressman. The government's aim is to give people jobs instead of aid, and it is worth working in Hungary. I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Interior has not conducted and has not initiated any investigation into the public employment programmes of the municipality of Kenderes, and its claim to abolish public employment is false. In 2021 the Municipality of Kenderes received more than HUF 80 million from the State for 74 public employees, which allows the operation of four public employment programmes. It's the truth, Congressman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-42	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What will their future be for young people with disabilities? It's an address. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor.
u2021-12-06-43	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, It was World Disability Day these days. I think it is very important that we thank our fellow countrymen with disabilities first for the added value they make in Hungary, the incredibly important contribution they make to the nation, and especially for the people who work, care, teach, or otherwise take part in this task. [[Marta Demeter applauds.]] The fact is that in many families with disabilities, although it is very helpful that children who are incapable of self-sufficiency have no upper limit to receiving the minimum wage, which arises, it is always when the child reaches 18 that he becomes an adult and no longer participates in compulsory education, so that he cannot participate in any day-to-day institution, no more segregational education. This is very important because although there are European Union and government job creation or subsidised housing applications, most families where parents care for children with disabilities, for example, ask what will happen to the child when they are no longer there. I'm sure you've heard that a lot. The thing is, we've been spending the least amount of money on this for 30 years, and that's probably the most important thing we should be spending on. It is extremely difficult for young people with disabilities to get or create a limited self-sufficient life even in a supported housing area, or to work very hard, to find a job, as they often need help to get to work or to find a job. Overall, my question is what the government is planning for people with disabilities in their 18th year. Thank you very much.
u2021-12-06-44	Thank you very much, Congressman Ungar. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-12-06-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, there is recognition and respect for everyone not only on World Day for People with Disabilities, but every day, who helps those who cannot live a full life without outside help to complete themselves as much as possible, to learn, to develop skills, and then even to work, to start their own family, and to support themselves at least in part, not in need of others. Much has happened, thank God, in this area, you have also indicated, honourable Member, that the increase in the care fee, the childcare fee, was a breakthrough in the provision of benefits. Those who raise a very serious child at home and care for him received HUF 37 050 at the beginning of our government! This year they will receive 147 thousand forints, and next year 200,000 forints, so we can talk about four times the increase, and even more than four times the increase next year. It was also very important what you referred to, honourable Member, that this was terminated earlier when the child became of age, after the age of 18, and now as long as the parent takes care of his child, he may be 20 years, 25 years, 30 years old, the state grants these subsidies. It is also important to include these years in the pension for parents, it is also important that it also results in a health insurance relationship, so it is also a kind of work time and an insurance relationship, which were all additional benefits. Thus, overall, while in 2015 there was a budget for care fees of HUF 15 billion, this year we increased it to HUF 58 billion, i.e. from HUF 15 billion to HUF 58 billion. And it is important what you said to be able to get a job and communicate, so we support them with various measures, which I cannot list in the absence of time, but the result is: from 18 percent to 44 percent, the proportion of people who can already take a job has increased, thanks not only to training programs, but also to tax breaks, the rehabilitation card. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] So much more workers work and many more employers employ such people. And I would also like to mention the different projects Contact, Fareye or Data, with which we are trying to eliminate the disability of people with different disabilities. Thank you, Mr President, for giving me more time. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-46	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellár, representative of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology what concrete plans does the government have to reduce unemployment in Baranya County? It's an address. Congressman Tamás Mellar is the one who has the floor.
u2021-12-06-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Over the past few years, I have been contacted by several people in Pécs with their unemployment problems, and I have asked your ministry with a written question about what the government intends to do in order to reduce unemployment in Baranya. Well, I was given the usual lecture instead of the answer, or the pointing backwards. The facts are that the unemployment rate in Hungary is currently 3.9 percent. Of course, this could be settled, that is what it is, but we obviously cannot clear this up with today's KSH, and perhaps sometime later, but compared to Baranya County, the unemployment rate is 5.1 percent, so it is significantly higher, so that this area can only reach the end of the middle field at national level. According to KSH's data on the employment rate in July-September, only 67,6 percent of those aged between 15 and 64 in Baranya County are employed; this means that Baranya County has reached the second worst position among the counties in Transdanubia. [[12.40]] The government is not doing any meaningful work and is not taking any meaningful measures to reduce unemployment in South Transdanubia, the epidemic situation has only increased this considerably, and only appearance measures have been seen. The number of job seekers in Baranya is 13 521 people. I would like to ask you, Secretary of State, to inform me of what the government is planning to do to reduce the unemployment in the county. Thank you very much.
u2021-12-06-48	Thank you very much, Congressman Mellar. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-12-06-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I ask you very much and with great respect, Mr President, to be worthy of your professional career, because your claims are unworthy of an economist and unworthy of a university teacher. And it's embarrassing, actually, that I have to warn you about that. And I understand that, after you've become fully attached to the left, you have to keep your loyalties and prove your loyalty, but you'd be expected to do so at a higher level. As former president of the KSH, honourable Member, at least believe the numbers. You know exactly what unemployment was in Hungary in 2010 when your friends, allies and comrades gave the government: 12% 12%! Today, on the other hand, we have one of the lowest indicators in the entire European Union. And if you don't believe me, then my request is that you at least believe the numbers, because that's your profession. Since 2010, we have created one million jobs in Hungary. There is still work to be done, but at least, honourable Member, acknowledge the results. There have never been as many people in Hungary since the change of regime as there are today. The employment rate is almost 74 per cent, with the EU average only 68.2 per cent. The unemployment rate is 3.9 percent and the EU average is 6.6. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar: That's right.]] And I would also like to repeat to you the data in Baranya, as I have already written to you several times, during the governance of the left, the employment rate in Baranya County was 55%, now 67.5 percent. The unemployment rate was 14 per cent at the beginning of 2010, 14 per cent, and now 5.1 per cent. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-06-50	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, Ms. Katalin Csöbör, Member of the Fidesz, wishes to ask the Foreign Affairs Minister:. What further investments are expected in the region of Miskolc? It's an address. Congresswoman Katalin Csöbör should take the floor.
u2021-12-06-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Thanks to Hungary's investment promotion programme and the Eastern opening strategy, two municipalities in my constituency can host two important foreign investments. We handed it over to S.E.G.A. in mid-November. Hungary Kft. new production unit and R &amp; D centre in Szirmabesenyő. This investment amounted to HUF 4.5 billion, and the government provided HUF 1.3 billion in support. With this, we were able to save 1426 jobs, plus 40 engineers can be hired by the Chinese-owned company. Among many competing European cities, Miskolc was chosen by Chervon's automotive company to carry out his first greenfield investment outside China: 138 jobs will be created and production will start next year, a HUF 17.5 billion investment, to which the government gave HUF 5.5 billion. So our local example proves that Hungary is now the number one investment destination for Chinese companies in Central Europe. We can also say that North-East Hungary has now become a driving force for economic growth, as since 2014, the government has provided support for 49 foreign investments, and these companies have created a development of nearly HUF 1000 billion and have created 5500 new jobs. Therefore, I respectfully ask you what further steps are to be taken in relation to foreign investments, I am thinking of Miskolc and its surroundings, Alsózsolca, Felsőzsolca, Sajókeresztúr, Szirmabesenyő and Arnot. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-06-52	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Csöbör. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter András Sztáray.
u2021-12-06-53	Mr. President, thank you very much. I would like to say to the honourable Member that the government's Eastern opening policy is indeed one of the pillars of economic development. We pay particular attention to this and, in particular, the Asian countries play a key role in economic development. In the field of investment promotion, the recent years have brought a number of results, investment in South Korea has increased dramatically, and China is also the other direction that has made Hungary the most important investment country in Central and Eastern Europe. China was Hungary's fifth largest trading partner and the second most important import source in 2020. In addition, the projects represented a total investment volume of around EUR 660 million and create nearly 2,200 new jobs. So, as you mentioned, indeed, these investments make a big contribution to our economy's development and to the strengthening of the regions within Hungary. As you have shown, many of these investments have been made in and around Miskolc. I am pleased to say that the prospects for the future are also very promising. Our investment promotion system currently manages 17 active pre-decision projects in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county. If these projects are implemented with the parameters currently known after the end of the negotiation process, investments can create a total of 4700 new jobs and invest some EUR 1.5 billion in money. The Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county sites have a high interest in helping to alleviate the economic damage caused by the coronal virus epidemic. The government will continue to contribute to these investments in the future. Thank you so much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-06-54	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Péter András Sztáray. Dear Parliament, József Attila Móring and Lőrinc Nacsa, representatives of the Christian Democratic People's Party, want to ask the Minister responsible for innovation and technology:. What does consumer protection do to protect consumers during the Christmas season? It's an address. Mr József Attila Móring, Member of the Council, has the floor.
u2021-12-06-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Sunday was Advent's second Sunday, it's only two weekends till Christmas. On the last weekends before Christmas holidays, a final shopping rush starts, so it is worth talking about what consumers should pay more attention to. Consumer protection also has a greater role to play in this period, as consumer protection is an obligation to prevent and minimise the various potential problems of consumer protection. At times, consumer protection urges us not to fall for either transparent or devious lies. Dear Secretary of State, Hungarian consumer protection takes decisive action against the conscious deception of consumers. The laboratory of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology and the Consumer Protection Authority are continuously carrying out official controls on electronic commerce combined with a trial purchase. This is important because online shopping has received particular emphasis in recent years, on the one hand, as digitalization evolves, the online stores multiply and, on the other hand, the pandemic has given an additional boost to online buyers. On Christmas, one of the emphasised product families is the children's game, of which the battery-powered, flashing or lighting games are checked, the easily removable flashing unit, the button elements released by the impact or drop are particularly important, because they can cause asphyxiation. [[12.50]] Pencil elements can be drawn from the inadequately closed battery holder in one motion. If they are then put in the mouth of the baby, the release of acid threatens to damage health. Dear Secretary of State, Of course, it also controls many other subjects from the quality of consumer protection, to the quality of light garlands, through the existence of product information, to the delivery of the purchase receipt. Therefore, I respectfully ask what consumer protection does to protect consumers during the Christmas season. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2021-12-06-56	Thank you very much, Mr. József Attila Móring. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-12-06-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that the ITM has ordered from 29 November, from the first Sunday of Advent until New Year's Eve a series of national consumer protection controls for the safety of Hungarian families. Consumer protection controls are carried out by county and capital government offices, accredited laboratories of the ITM and the IT laboratory of the ITM. The focus of the series of inspections is on the financial security of consumers again this year, and to this end, in addition to shops, the official colleagues also have increased control over the webshops and the Advent fairs. Last year, more than 100,000 products were checked nationwide in nearly 700 shops, of which 7,000 were tested. As more and more people are buying gifts online in addition to traditional shops, consumer protection is also, of course, looking at this area as a matter of priority. Last year, nearly 100 online stores were checked and some HUF 7.5 million fines were imposed, and we are preparing for a similar level of inspection again this year. Another important area of control is product safety, i.e. the elimination of dangerous products. As in previous years, the Consumer Protection Authority will continue to monitor more closely the typical products of the holiday period. For example, the examination of chocolate smacks has already been completed, so I am also happy to inform the Parliament that Santa could put the right quality chocolates in the children's boots by this morning. But there are also Christmas lighting decoration devices, light garlands in the technical laboratory of the ITM, and saloons and sausages in our food and chemical lab. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-06-58	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, an independent Member, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology a question: "What about the worse roads in our region? Part Two. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2021-12-06-59	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, A few weeks ago, we had a dialogue on the state of roads in constituency V of Bács-Kiskun County, and I would like to continue this. As I explained in my speech at the time, my hometown, Kecel, and the neighbouring area of Kiskunhalas are unfortunately not famous for their high-quality roads. Unfortunately, this can also be said of the lower roads of Bácsalmás, Deep Well, Tompa and Kelebia. It is also true for these municipalities that although progress has been made in the area of two-digit journeys, the lower roads giving the majority of the network are in very poor condition. However, the promises of the government were not missed, and before the elections in 2018, the pro-government campaign newspaper also included all the road sections that had not recently been fixed in the countryside as one of the planned renovations for 2020. These include the Bácsalmás-Mélykút, the road section of Bácsalmás-Tataháza, and the road route of 5501, which is quite long through Bácsalmás-Csikéria-Kelebia to main road 55. This directly affects the lives of nearly 20,000 people, as in addition to the inhabitants of the above mentioned Bácsalmás, Deep Well, Tataháza and Chicheria, people in Tompa, Kunbaja and Bácsszőlős suffer from poor roads. Unfortunately, we see that not only in 2020 but not even in 2021 there has been visible progress in the above sections of the road. It's been four years, and it's another campaign period. Will the renovations that have been cancelled be promised again before the elections? So I ask Minister what people in our region can expect from these specific sections of the road with regard to renovations. I hope that I will now receive a more specific answer than a few weeks ago, when I received so many answers regarding my question on specific road sections that they are planned. I trust you will give me a more specific answer, Mr Secretary of State. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-12-06-60	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Farkas. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-12-06-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In fact, you're the one who put me in campaign mode. The government is constantly working towards you on the development of the Hungarian road network, as well as the working Hungarian people working on road constructions and renovations. Thank them for that. We all know that there is a lot of work to be done, a lot of work to be done, as I said in my reply to your last question. On the national road network of 32,000 kilometres before 2010, due to the total irresponsibleness of left-wing governments, significant maintenance delays were accumulated. This is a great deal of work, and I therefore sincerely hope that there is such a straight line that you will ask your next question to the left. [[Defiance, murmuring in opposition benches.]] The maintenance and renovation work that was canceled before 2010 has been started, and we will continue to replace it, which has been cancelled before, despite the coronal virus epidemic, and these renovations will continue to take place unbroken in the country. Between 2010 and 2020, 6600 kilometres of renovation took place, and this year it started and completed a further 1250 kilometres of renovation and development. Let's see the specifics. In 2021 the two sections of the Kalocsa-Mélykút-Bácsalmás connecting road 5312 were renewed in the framework of the Hungarian village programme, with a duration of 2.1 km, and a procurement phase of 2.5 km is currently under preparation. As part of the TOP programme, 2,1 km was renovated in 2019. There are four sections of the Interconnection Road 55 No. 5501 between Kelebia-Baja and the Hungarian village, the renovation of 7.5 kilometers has been completed, and in the case of a 1.7 kilometer long period the work area has already been transferred. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-06-62	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, Tamás Csányi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What are they doing to prevent the collapse of public education? It's an address. Mr Tamás Csányi has the floor.
u2021-12-06-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We can certainly agree that one of the areas most affected by the corona virus epidemic is public education in addition to health care, as there is always a faster and more intensive spread of viruses and infections in school communities. However, the government does not seem to know or want to do anything about this problem and, as usual, pass on responsibility to employers, which pass on to employees, respect for the exception. As is known, on October 28, the government ordered compulsory vaccination in state-owned institutions. At the same time, it has not been made compulsory in schools of ecclesiastical and private foundations, in which the head of the institution can decide. Secretary of State, I ask you, there is a sound professional explanation for this mixed decision. We'll wait for an answer. However, we also know that those who do not get vaccinated by 15 December will be sent on unpaid leave, and that they will be able to discharge them for a year if they do not meet the requirements. Based on your information, it is also known that nearly 15,000 teachers who have not yet taken the vaccine against the coronal virus, and from press briefings, I can say from personal experience that a significant part of these colleagues do not plan to take the vaccine, they probably will not continue their teaching career from January onwards. In addition, the trade unions claim that 12,000 teachers are missing from the sector at the moment. So the question arises, Mr. Secretary of State: in view of all this, do you not fear that public education will be in jeopardy in Hungary from January 2022, and what will you do to ensure that this does not happen? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-12-06-64	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Csányi. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. [[13.00]]
u2021-12-06-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Speaking of teachers' unions, let me quote them. They said this in March this year: "Don't open the schools until all the workers involved in education have received the vaccination. So this spring, they demanded that everyone who works in schools, teachers, teachers, receive the vaccination, and they said that after that the schools could be restarted. So they demanded exactly what the government now requires, that those who meet children every day, even those who meet their parents every day, obviously happen at school, one of the most important things for all of us is that he is safe, that they should not only be vaccinated to protect themselves, their own families, their friends, but also to protect the children. I think it is a reasonable request on behalf of all Hungarian parents that those whom he entrusts his child should enjoy the greatest possible immunity. But this is also an advantage for them, since vaccination can protect them from the more serious consequences of the disease or even the fatal consequences. That is why the government said that it would take this measure in public schools, and in non-state schools the rule, as in all non-state jobs, is that the employer, the maintenance director, can decide what they prescribe for their teachers and what they do not. We, on the other hand, strive to make schools as secure as possible. You can also remember that we started with campaign-like, preventive vaccination programmes in schools, and you can see that the Hungarian government is trying to ensure the possibility of vaccination at the lowest possible age. That is why we have ordered 2 million doses of vaccine for the youngest children. This is expected to arrive on the 13th of de-cember, so everyone over the age of 5 can get a vaccine in Hungary. It's not like that in every country, you can't say that about yourself. Not only have we opened up the possibility of taking a third vaccine before all European countries, but we are also trying to give the 5-11-year-olds the opportunity to receive the vaccine as quickly as possible. We hope that everyone at school will be safe. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Tamás Csányi: Mr President, I was waiting for an answer.]]
u2021-12-06-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm sorry, I didn't pay attention. Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Finance a question:, Why are pensions only raised by three percent in January when inflation is skyrocketing? ! It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Parliamentary Secretary Róbert Zsigó will answer the question at the request of a minister without a portfolio of tasks and competences for families. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2021-12-06-67	Thank you for the opportunity. Dear House, In the title of the question is practically everything I would like to say in these two minutes:, Why are pensions only raised by 3 percent in January when inflation is skyrocketing? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Wages, thank God, have evolved in recent years to show a dynamic growth. That's commendable. But wages have radically cut pensions in recent years. I have repeatedly expressed my position here in Parliament that I find the technique of raising a pension following inflation to be a failure, because that is nothing more than the freezing of wages. Pensions are only increased in January by as much as the rate of inflation planned, they have practically always followed the events; even if some sort of adjustment has been made in the meantime, as in July and November this year. Let's see where we stand on pension poverty in the country. There are 520,000 pensioners whose pension is less than 100,000 forints, with a minimum living rate of 105,000 forints according to KSH. But let's look at the depth of poverty, which measures the distance from society as a whole to the downtrodden: well, in the last ten years, this has increased fourfold. If everything stays the way it has been before, it can be predicted that wages will lead to even more radical retirement, that the number of poor people in the retirement society will grow dynamically. That's why I'm asking you, you'll have at least five percent pension increase in January. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-12-06-68	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Korózs. The answer to your question will be Róbert Zsigo. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2021-12-06-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, allow me to welcome you back to Parliament, and I am pleased that you have recovered and returned to health. Honourable Congressman, You're asking me again about pensions, and I have to say that we're not going to agree again on what you said. No, because you in the opposition kept promising, for example, to pensioners, but when you were on the government, you were always taken away from the elderly. Allow me to say that you also assisted as Secretary of State to take away the 13th month's pension from pensioners. Your boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány, has raised the price of gas three times, twice the price of electricity, trying to make health care pay. These measures have all affected older people. You personally voted in favour of taking a month's wage or a month's pension, voted in favour of reducing the child for two years, voted in favour of paying health care, property taxes, and I could still list the restrictions that you personally supported with your vote. And now we're being held accountable in opposition. Honourable Congressman, We'll give the elderly back your 13th month's pension. Unlike you, in November, we paid the pension premium of 80,000 forints to pensioners and pension recipients. In 2010, we concluded an agreement with the elderly that, as long as we are in government, the value of their pension will remain a buyer. I'm reporting, we've stayed, we've kept our word, we've increased the purchasing value of pensions by more than 10 percent over the past few years. And we also protect energy prices that are kept low by reducing the cost of electricity. Mr. Congressman, you held me back and took me away from the elderly during the crisis, but we are also helping pensioners in the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, and you can still count on us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-70	Thank you very much, Mr Róbert Zsigo. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why fake the epidemic data on patients on the ventilator? It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, who is competent on the subject, at the request of Mr Károly Kontra. Mr Zoltán Varga has the floor.
u2021-12-06-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, You obviously don't learn from anything. It's terrible to even say that your disease management has failed for the fourth time in the last two years. Last week, the number of people who died increased more than 200 times a day, and we lost more than 35,000 of our countrymen in the coronal virus epidemic. Families have been destroyed, dreams have vanished, people have gone away, many of whom could have been saved, all they needed was a responsible, competent government that takes the epidemic seriously. Unfortunately, the Hungarian people were beaten by fate with you, and we are paying a huge price for this. You will succeed in such infernal feats that no example can be found in more developed parts of the world. After the spring wave, by last week, we were once again world records of population-related mortality. As long as the EU averages 4 people per million die in the epidemic, this figure is nearly 18 times the EU average. Just as we are at the forefront of the increase in the number of deaths in Europe over the last five weeks. It is clear that if someone gets sick in Hungary today, they have a much greater chance of losing their lives than in any other EU Member State. It is not a question that you will have to take political responsibility for this, and you will have to answer for the world's worst disease management, and you will do so next April. But what I'm interested in is that when you look in the mirror between two winning reports, how you feel. How can they even look in the mirror after all this? How can you face the family of 35,000 dead Hungarians? How do they account for their conscience for more than 35,000 human lives, and why does the government stop acting so that thousands of Hungarians do not have to die? Thank you and I look forward to your reply.
u2021-12-06-72	Thank you very much, Congressman Varga. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State. [[13.10]]
u2021-12-06-73	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Government of Hungary is working to serve the health of Hungarian people. To this end, he will do everything in his power to achieve this goal, bringing together health workers, law enforcement workers, volunteers, everyone involved in the fight against the epidemic; with government officials and local governments, our common goal is to ensure the greatest security for Hungarian people. And allow me to reject the sentence that said that the Hungarian people were beaten with you by fate. Honourable Congressman, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the last three elections Hungarians have given us two-thirds of their trust. As far as information is concerned, the government informs the public regularly and truthfully on the Internet government portal Koronavirus.gov.hu. It is just the left who took the stage in the epidemic case when he produced false news, as he did now; when they demanded an opening at the beginning of the third wave; when they campaigned against safe and effective vaccinations; when registration was attacked. Contrary to your claim, the data has never been forged. There have been real changes in hospital reporting for patients on the ventilator, with several months of IT and care management preparatory work behind the new type of data request. For the treatment of Covid patients, significant new knowledge and experience have been gained over the past 1.5 years and are being used. Today, it is an international evidence that in some patients, non-invasive ventilation is also a good result in many cases. Patients who do not require invasive ventilation can be cured by such an intervention. Regrettably, honourable Member, you are still not in the interests of the Hungarian people. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They are seeking political gain, and they have not changed that. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-06-74	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. What are they doing to prevent inflation from eating the Hungarian people's income? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor.
u2021-12-06-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We're stacking success, and that's what the government propaganda is saying in every forum. At the same time, we have to face the fact that inflation can be around 5% in Hungary this year and next year; next year, for example, it can move in a range of 4.7 to 5.1 percent. And this is not said by some rumor-teller hiding in the dark, but by György Matolcsy himself in Parliament the other day. Unfortunately, the prospects are not encouraging in the medium term. If economic policy remains unchanged in Hungary, there is a great risk that we may be stuck in a 4-7 percent inflation rate for several years. It points in the same direction in all segments of current government economic policy, towards an increase in inflation. Here, your misguided income policy is outstanding. Between 2020 and 2021, nominal wages increase by 17 percent, but the combined growth of real wages and GDP is not expected to exceed 2-3 percent. And the direct consequence of this is that, according to sound reports, the wages rising to heights are being devalued. The Hungarian people already have a double grip: on one side there is massively high inflation and on the other side there is a depreciation of the forint compared to the leading currencies, which significantly reduces the real value of income. In addition, we can say that there is a third element, that there is a triple squeeze, because in Hungary, VAT is still high, 27 percent. This should be reduced in any way: VAT on basic foods should be reduced to 5 per cent, and it is strongly recommended that this be supplemented, for example by reducing the VAT on articles relating to child rearing to 5 per cent, as should lactose and gluten sensitivity in certain sensitive persons. So you can see that the production reports on retirement, wage increases are campaigning. These are communication dishes, you give them and you don't give them. That's my question. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] As the Hungarian people's livelihood is at stake, what they are doing, Mr Secretary of State, so that inflation does not eat the Hungarian people's income. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-12-06-76	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai, State Secretary.
u2021-12-06-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Obviously you know that high, higher inflation is not a Hungarian phenomenon, it was not caused by the Hungarian government, but by the processes taking place in the international economy. Unfortunately, the re-opening involves a rise in inflation, and this is what Europe and even the United States have been dealing with, where 7.3 percent have been measured in the last month. In Germany, inflation is 6 percent, but in the European currency area it was 4.9 percent in November, which has not been this high in 13 years. And what the government is doing on the other hand, it recognises and even said this in its question, as it says that in 2020-21 real wages will increase by 2-3 percent, here it is in its question. It is true that you have accounted for it a little bit, because this is likely to be higher, as real earnings growth in 2020 was more than 6 percent, and now it is 4 percent, and the year-end income outflow is, of course, in addition to the fact that, unfortunately, inflation is expected to be high. So if we add up the two years, it's not likely to be 2-3 percent, it's higher. But think back to the time when you were sitting in the MSZP, playing politics. When the MSZP was on the government and there was a crisis in the same way, we were not talking about real earnings and incomes growing, but about their decline. They could not keep real incomes throughout a government cycle, and this is true not only for income but also for pensions. Every year, the Fidesz government maintained the purchasing value of pensions, and so will it now, in times of high inflation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government will do everything in its power to: [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] compensates for high inflation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-06-78	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tallai. Dear Parliament, Mr Béla Dankó, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. When will the construction of the last stage of the M44 motorway be completed. Congressman Béla Dankó has the floor.
u2021-12-06-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, High-quality road transport connections are essential for the growth of Hungarian businesses and the well-being of Hungarian people. The economies of settlements and areas that are connected to a high-quality road network will be revived thanks to developments and will be more attractive to investors who create jobs. Thanks to the government's subsidies, the road section of the M44 motorway to Békéscsaba has been transferred to my constituency in recent years. Despite the road development that has been achieved so far, however, we are well aware that part of the work remains. So far, from the M5 motorway, from Kecskemét to Békéscsaba, a total of 79 kilometres have been built so far, and a further 3.2 kilometers between Tiszaku and Tiszaku have recently been delivered. And the part between Kecskemét and Tisakürt will take place at three paces. Such a level of road development can make a significant difference in the lives of the people living in Békés county, as the county seat and its catchment area never had such a modern, built road network, but it can also help the development of tourism, as tourists arriving in the region would be happy to visit the area that attracts many places with untouched natural attractions. Therefore, I respectfully ask you when the construction of the last section of the M44 motorway will be completed. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-06-80	Thank you very much, Congressman Béla Dankó. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-12-06-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We agree that the road network is important for people, businesses and indeed for the economy as a whole. Therefore, all over the country, despite the pandemic, road development is ongoing. With the implementation of the M44 motorway, two lane expressway connections are created from the M5 motorway, from the Kecskemét area to Békéscsaba. At the same time, not only will Békéscsaba be connected to the motorway network, but there is also a fast and secure road connection between three counties in eastern Hungary. [[13.20]] From the more than 120 km journey, the 61 km stretch between Tiszakürt-Kondoros was completed in 2019 and 17,6 km between Kondoros-Békéscsaba in 2020. The 10 km section between Lakitelek-Tisakürt will be completed and will be delivered with the new Tisza bridge by the end of 2021. The 4,6 km section between the Szentkirály-Lakitelek is also built, with the associated bypass, the necessary road renovations and the bicycle road construction expected in the first quarter of 2024. In the case of the 32,2 km section between the Kecskemét-Szentkirály, the construction work may start in spring 2022, so I can inform you of this, and the entry into service is estimated to be in mid-2021 after the completion of the works. During the M44 construction, therefore, we pay particular attention to the gradual delivery. Once a section is completed, it will be handed over to traffic as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-82	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, Adam Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question. Since I have before me the text of Congressman Steinmetz, which you will be reading, in which there is the team composition, I will not read it now, since the Member will read it. The point is: is it normal for the Hungarian taxpayers to use their money to support the supply team that will take its course in the compilation that you will list, yes or no? You have the floor, Congressman, notary.
u2021-12-06-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your work in the last three and a half years, especially those moments when you answered the questions of the Hungarian people. Unfortunately, however, this has not always happened, and I am not just referring to the case of the hospital in Marcal. How many young people who are only foreign nationals are supported by the Fidesz government? I asked you the question exactly two years ago, but we still don't know the number, and that's also incomprehensible because the Sports Act is 51. Pursuant to Article 7 of the Act, the Minister responsible for sport whose deputy handles the citizenship data of athletes and persons supported by the lake. In view of that, you must have the information I asked for. Dear Secretary of State, Two years ago, you asked me to submit a proposal that would eliminate Taos support for foreign athletes. With all due respect, this has happened, only Fidesz hasn't supported it. But the new government will put an end to your practice and spend Hungarian public money on Hungarian athletes. Because, with all due respect, I ask Mr. Secretary of State, it is normal to support with the Hungarian taxpayers' money the replacement team that will take the stage in such a compilation; let's hear it then, Mr. President: Zden Perehanec, Oleh Denysiuk, Pavlo Bielalov, Taras Yarymovich, Illia Kiriujhin, Yaroslav Helesh, Ruslan Usenko, Waksym Zyzych, Serhii Gritsu, Kyrylo Syrota. How many foreign athletes have the national Fidesz government supported in the last ten years? How much of our money has been spent on this, and what national interest? Let's wait for an honorary answer.
u2021-12-06-84	Thank you very much, Congressman Steinmetz, notary. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-12-06-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you, too, for making many, many unforgettable moments before your political career, when you were an athlete, and we were really happy to cheer you on, and you know that. As far as the parliamentary arena and not sports arenas are concerned, in 2011, according to data from the Hungarian Football Association, 158 thousand played this sport, and now 279 thousand, which is a 76 percent increase. The waterball was also run by 4223 players in 2011 based on federal data, and now by 9352, this is a 121 percent increase. If I watch all the visual team sports, the number of certified athletes has risen from 215 thousand to 480 thousand, that is a 122 percent increase, honourable Member. I think this is a great success, and I think that many countries would envy this result, that in 5 to 10 years, the number of athletes in their free time or the number of athletes in the competition has been increased. And I think that many people also envy that Hungary has been able to introduce daily physical education in schools, precisely to make students healthier and to grow up healthier in a next generation, which is a generation of mobile phones, so obviously their other abilities are much more difficult. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Then let us hear the answer.]] So I think these are important results from the sports results of the last few years. We saw a lot of left-wing politicians, who went into the ATV either here in Parliament or outside Parliament, gave interviews to the left-wing liberal newspapers, and what was available on the tube, attacked the government's sports support and the Tao system and stadium constructions, but at the moment when the Hungarian athletes achieved results and there was our national 11th, they went to the front row, took photos there, and tried to make themselves sport-friendly, and they forgot that what had led so far, and they all opposed it earlier. As for athletes, honourable Member, foreign athletes also play in Hungary [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and Hungarian athletes also play abroad. You may think you want to stop or prohibit this process, but it's today's sports reality. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-86	Thank you very much, Congressman Retvári, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why are they not testing regularly at least in public institutions? Why do they let public education fall apart? Why leave the teachers, the students, the parents? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2021-12-06-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In the fourth wave of the coronal virus, the government abandoned people even more than ever, especially those infected with Covid. There is chaos in official procedures, and, Mr. Secretary of State, there is no contact research in Hungary. People who get sick today can only count on themselves, and those who are healthy can only trust that patients who are infected do not go to school or work. But even if they do, they still have to get the tests themselves. It could cost a family tens of thousands of forints to carry out the protocol that others have not expected. No one's giving them any support. Meanwhile, you burned 5 billion forints worth of tests. This is particularly serious for educational and care institutions. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Allow me to read a reader's letter:. No letters, no records, no rules, no instructions. There is, however, a hysterically hasty kindergarten manager and staff standing in the middle of the sea, calming hysterical parents. The big kids at school are preparing for the finals, graduations, admissions, teachers, subjects disappearing for weeks and months, no replacement for a year and a half. You abandoned the Hungarian children, abandoned the teachers and refused to do anything until today. They've announced that it's possible to put out 5-11-year-old children now. Why do you need registration, Mr. Secretary? We saw that it worked for adults, too, that if they were deleted, if they didn't need registration, they would be able to go by tens of thousands of people and pick up the vaccine. Tell me, Secretary of State, you've had time to prepare for the fourth wave, you've learned nothing from the first three waves, you've learned nothing from that first period. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] from which you should know exactly what measures should be taken. When do children and teachers get free testing? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-12-06-88	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I warmly welcome my fellow Members and give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2021-12-06-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Madam Member, yesterday was 5 December. Do you remember what happened 17 years ago? You didn't want to apologize yesterday for what you did 17 years ago, for what you gave your face to, for what you earned on the left to be a Member of Parliament? Did you not think of this when, let's say, you thought of Hungarians across the border, that it might be worth apologizing to you in person after 17 years? [[13.30]] As far as teachers are concerned, honourable Member. Fortunately, Hungary was killed faster in the fourth wave of the epidemic than almost any country. In the European Union, the share of third vaccine recipients is around 10-12 percent, and in Hungary it is around 26-27 percent. So we are well ahead of it, like in any other country in Europe, and I think that this is important news for teachers, an important step forward, as is important for health workers, both for their greater safety and for fewer people with more serious complications, which is why fewer people are hospitalized than if they do not receive the first, second or third vaccination. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There's always registration at the vaccination. Please don't try to make it look like there isn't. It's also when someone just showed up at the hospital in the last few weeks, only registered on the spot, and then got the vaccine. Please don't forget that a very large proportion of people took their first shot, their second shot, and many of them took the third one with prior registration and booking. Some appear during the vaccination weeks, but before that there were more people who didn't want to wait in line, but went to an appointment and arranged the vaccination site, the time, and the vaccination was discussed on the spot. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You are now demanding more testing here, while we have a much more effective tool than testing that, of course, for everyone who is required by a public authority or doctor, it is free, and this is the vaccine. You, on the other hand, have put forward a parliamentary decision on vaccines, launched a petition, tried to dissuade people, and made every effort to prevent people from trusting in vaccines. We should have thought about it when the left took this course two years ago and seventeen years ago. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-90	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anett Bősz, representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister without a wallet for the families:. How long do Hungarian women have to tolerate the government letting them down? It's an address. Congresswoman Anett will take the floor. Here you go.
u2021-12-06-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In recent weeks, it has been demonstrated once again that, unfortunately, in practice, the government that considers itself family-friendly often tramples women's rights. Even though we were waiting for you to realize, on the occasion of the World Day for the Elimination of Domestic Violence, that you were wrong earlier and to join the Istanbul Convention, this unfortunately did not happen. Dear Secretary of State, This is the convention which considers the prevention and eradication of domestic violence to be its most important task. Even though the European Parliament has repeatedly called on you to do so, you have once again said no, and this has put our country on the bench of shame in Europe. Just as Minister Katalin Novák remained silent when we protested here with hundreds of future mothers in Kossuth Square not so long ago that the outdated obstetrics protocols should finally end in Hungarian birthing rooms, there should be a uniform obstetrical protocol that ensures the most modern procedure at any point in the country, in any health care facility in the country, in any birthing room, because it cannot be done, Mr. Secretary of State, that both mothers and their infants will be desecrated in their dignity by outdated obstetrical protocols. I would have expected Katalin Novak, either as a mother or as a woman, to side with those civilians who demand nothing more than that the most modern WHO recommendations should finally be taken seriously by our country and finally understand that the parent has not only freedom but also dignity, starting with the fact that they cannot separate them with newborns if there is no health limit. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State why the Orbán government is failing women in many areas of life. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-12-06-92	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Róbert Zsigó. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2021-12-06-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and To recite your first sentence, your party, which considers you democratic, keeps making promises to everyone, to the elderly, to young people, to women right now. The fact is, Congresswoman, that the way you are concerned about our fellow women is false and uncredited; when you could have done so, you have done nothing but hindered measures to improve women's performance and their quality of life. Let me give you some examples. You have a fellow party who has not supported the more rigorous punishment of the institution of relationship violence in the penal code. You voted against the parliamentary vote on the four-year-old mother's absence, you did not personally support this measure, and you also said no to the fact that the child should go back three years. You and your fellow parties also did not support the introduction of 40. After that, you will stand up here in Parliament and ask us to be accounted for. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We respect women and support them throughout their lives and make sure that they feel as safe as possible, and I will give you some examples. With strict criminal policy, crisis centres, shelters, legal and spiritual aid programmes, we have increased the protection of women. Women's unemployment has fallen by a third compared to 2010. In addition, we are releasing the three - childed mothers' student loans, the four - childed mothers can enjoy sty-free for the rest of their lives, and we are constantly building crèches to support our female countrymen in finding a balance between work and family life. Madam Congresswoman, you keep promising, but when you can, you will do nothing to improve the situation of women, but Hungary appreciates women today. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group and MEP Péter Ungár, representatives of the LMP, wish to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question: Why does the government stand by and watch the severe environmental devastations affecting Lake Balaton? It's an address. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-12-06-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In Badacsonytomaj, a former camping site in Badacsonytomaj, the investor destroyed the reeds and cut-off trees because of the construction of a four-star hotel in Badacsonytomaj, and also wants to eliminate the beach that the locals and many others have used in the past period. Clearly, we all know that Lake Balaton is our common natural treasure, which must be protected, and which is not only the lake of the few, but the lake of Hungary as a whole. The fact is that the investor said when asked why he cut the reeds, that the, several agencies claim that this reeds can be cut out, that's all I can say in short. The investor did not tell the truth, as several hydrobiologists, including Dr. Piroska Pomogyi's expert opinion, suggest that there is a protected reed in the affected area. What is particularly sad about this investment is that the investor did not in any way inform the local population of exactly what would happen, how it would happen. The people who lived there had no control over what the investor would build at the beach from which he would create a four-star hotel. Overall, we have the following questions. One is why they don't share information with the local population. What can you tell the Parliament about the protected reed? And how is it possible for an investor to invest in environmental destruction without intervention by the authorities? Overall, when will Fidesz stop the fact that the natural values of Lake Balaton are constantly being destroyed by people who, as investors, are more interested in making more money than in the fact that the generation of our children and grandchildren see Lake Balaton as beautiful as we see it? Thank you very much.
u2021-12-06-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Sándor Farkas. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2021-12-06-97	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, In the context of your question, I would first of all like to say that the Government of Hungary is committed to preserving and increasing our national natural resources and green surfaces. As you said, Lake Balaton and its wildlife are all our natural treasures and our common mission is to preserve them. The competent nature conservation authorities shall take part in the civil engineering procedures affecting protected areas, natural resources, and shall provide detailed advice on the use of the protected area in cooperation with national park directorates. I would like to assure Mr President that the Government Office of Veszprém County, as a regional nature conservation authority, will monitor the planned developments. [[13.40]] There is no information on the investment at the Agricultural Ministry, and there is no ongoing case at the Government Office on real estate. On the basis of the information currently available, the municipality is working on the conclusion of the settlement settlement contract and the amendment of the local construction code, and is also continuously coordinating with the competent authorities. The aim of Hungary's Government is to ensure that the areas belonging to the Balaton Highest Holiday Region can fulfil their function in accordance with the Balaton Act, while maintaining free access to Lake Balaton for all, while respecting the basic statutory obligation to protect the created environment. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-06-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:, Will you watch a whole sector go down without hesitation? It's an address. Congressman Zoltán Magyar has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-12-06-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I'll advance... [[Intercoms: No sound!]]
u2021-12-06-100	I would like a mobile microphone for Congressman Zoltán Magyar. [[It's happening.]] Is the card in? [[Hungarian Zoltán: Yes.]] He's in there on my signal.
u2021-12-06-101	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. I will advance your answer, and I will not get tired of this topic, and I will ask this question until I can extract a meaningful answer from you in the interests of pig farmers, because, unlike you, it is important for us what is happening in the Hungarian countryside, what is happening in Hungarian agriculture. For many months, since the waist of the summer, every Hungarian pig has been able to produce only with very serious losses, working over a hundred forints per kilo, it is understandable that panic in the sector has taken over, and more and more people are leaving this sector. We are now at the point that pig keepers, who otherwise own their own land, no longer feed their own animals, because it is more worth selling and liquidating the herd. What's the answer to that? They point to Brussels, offer loans to pig farmers, and, by the way, they are willing to partially pay their aid in advance. That's very little, Mr. Secretary. Over the last two weeks, this assistance has been further developed by the Minister posting in his social media, encouraging everyone to eat more pork. It's going to be very, very little. There is a crisis all over Europe, which is what they use to defend themselves with. That's right. But how did we get to the point that this crisis is the worst hit by Hungarian pig farmers? I'll tell you the answer: with you missing the last 12 years, you didn't organize animal farming, you didn't allow farmers to join forces, you didn't create the legal possibility, and you didn't provide any funds. After that, it is no wonder that the Hungarian pig farmers were more exposed to this crisis than farmers in any other country in Europe. Explain, Mr. Secretary, how you expect Hungarian farmers to say that two years ago they took over the pig for 445 HUF at a corn price of 43 thousand HUF, and now the corn is 88 thousand HUF, and they take over the pig in live weight under 400 HUF! Give a meaningful answer to this and finally give meaningful help to the workers in the sector. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, including, "That's right! Applause in the same place.]]
u2021-12-06-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Sándor Farkas. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-12-06-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, As I explained and discussed with you the previous week, we have an accurate picture of the real situation in the sector, based on regular consultations with the representatives of the Chamber of Agriculture and the pig sector. I would like to say that no EU Member State has used such a wide toolbox to address the problems of the pig sector as the Hungarian government. Animal welfare subsidies, indemnifications, crisis insurance schemes, one-off crisis aids in 2020 and loan schemes with 100% support are all for the sector, and I am pleased that this is recognised by the Member. In the framework of rural development and direct support, we pay the highest possible advance, more than HUF 300 billion by the end of the year. With regard to animal welfare aid, an additional 5.5 billion will be paid by the end of the year, in addition to the HUF 8.3 billion aid already paid this year. In addition to direct support measures for the sector, we have achieved that there is already a retail network that sells exclusively Hungarian pigmeat. In addition, the domestic pork consumption, which we have spent almost 225 million forints in order to encourage you with criticism, is going to be another promotion tomorrow. In addition to the above, Brussels' approach to the pig crisis is not negligible. The questions should be asked by the European Commission instead, although I would like to note that the price of pigmeat is specifically determined by the German meat market, the Hungarian market was adapted decades ago. It is important to point out that we will not avoid market surges in the future, but the more professional a sector is, the more cost-effective it can produce, the easier it can get through them. For this reason, it is important for Hungarian livestock farming to be able to achieve the most successful applications in all difficulties. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-06-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. MEP László Hajdu, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:. How long do you think it is possible to provoke Hungarian people against each other? It's an address. Congressman László Hajdu has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-12-06-105	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, A minimum wage increase has already been mentioned here today, raising the minimum wage to HUF 200,000. On behalf of the municipalities, and especially on behalf of the metropolitan authorities, I mention that no compensation will be granted to the municipalities, especially those municipalities which are forced to pay a solidarity tax on the basis of their tax capacity, this is about 700 municipalities from 3100 municipalities. We don't get a penny for the political promise to raise the minimum wage to HUF 200,000. In the past, these minimum wage increases have appeared in some normative way for municipalities. Basically, this is a 200,000 HUF withdrawal, although we fully agree that the minimum wage should be increased. But if there are even five places where the local governments are being withdrawn, in that case, this is the teasing of the municipalities, the teasing of the people, the local atmosphere, and I think that in the case of Budapest, in particular, they will be another slap in the face of the 13 October 2019 election. I ask Mr Secretary of State that the municipalities receive any support for raising the minimum wage in a normative way, as you know that the smallest wagers who work in the social field, in the health sector, who are in the care of the elderly or in the care of the disabled are involved, and they do not receive any normative support for this increase. Thank you. [[Applause from the lines of DK and MSZP.]]
u2021-12-06-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Miklós Soltés. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-12-06-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, he knows the sentence of his boss, hundreds of tricks. That is not what you have described in your question, honourable Member, but in any way, because the fact is that when you accuse or ask the government why we normally bleed out local governments, why we usually hate local governments, you do nothing but admit what you do, what you do. By the way, the idea of incitement to hatred is just a parentheses thought: yesterday was December 5th, you are the ones who started hatred against fellow nations 17 years ago, and you have not apologized since. But to your specific question, at least as far as the municipalities are concerned, I can tell you the following. Between 2002-2010, you took 1400 billion forints from the municipalities. We gave them 1437 billion back. Decide who respects and values the local governments and who doesn't. And to add, you're the 15th. district had a respected mayor, by the way. The other question is that his own coup d'état, and let's see how this coup has now led to the state of the municipality. [[13.50]] Tell me, honourable Member, why is it that while in 2020, a year ago, for example, 700 million forints were spent on public land maintenance, this amount was increased by 200 million in one year. Did the district get any nicer? No. Has the district cleared up? No. But they spent more. And tell me why the metropolitan, city hall real estate scandal is involved in the 15th century. Circuit! Do you know that they want to sell a building in the corruption case that's 10 186 square meters? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] 5453 is the building itself, with a school gym, everything? Where are you? Don't accuse us of hate, but look around your own front door. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. A statement from Jobbik: Secretary of State for Hatred!]]
u2021-12-06-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 13:50. That's the end of the question. I now respectfully invite my fellow Members to take their seats. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that anyone who has not yet received the package for the declaration of assets may do so at the reception desk at the entrance to the President of the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, It's time for immediate questioning. Mr. Péter Jakab and Congressman György Szilágyi, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Prime Minister? It's an address. The word belongs to Mr. Peter James. Here you go.
u2021-12-06-109	Thank you for the floor. First of all, let me congratulate you, Prime Minister, on your re-election as head of the Mafia at the Renewal Congress of Fidesz. I couldn't find a better man for this position than you. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Moore in the pro-government benches.]] In short, I listened to his speech in Congress, but he did say so much nonsense that I wouldn't respond to it now. At the same time, there was a much more interesting politician than you, a Fidesz mayor, who literally said that at this convention, and I quote, "We're still waiting for the Fidesz Center to tell us what the right answers to the unpleasant questions are. But, dear friends, when you have the answers, you will have the success. Is that the kind of brain trust that sits with you, Prime Minister? [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] People who can't answer questions by heart? Let's just say it's a good question, because it's only paper for you. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] But anyway, that's not the point. It's what these unpleasant questions are. One is obviously the grounds on which you are listening to opposition in this country, Prime Minister. First, they denied that they had anything to do with Pegasus, and then Lajos Kósa admitted that, yes, you ordered this spyware, which may now be monitored by secret service methods, according to Comrade Fat's instructions. Then there are the material questions. In 2008, you said that only weak people could want weak forints. Prime Minister, now that it's nearly 400 forints a euro, do you agree with yourself? Do you think you're weak? And how can it even happen that we Hungarians pay the highest, 27 percent VAT of the European Union, while the Hungarian salary is the weakest in us and in the region? [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] We will have a minimum wage of 133 thousand forints next year, Prime Minister, but Slovaks already have 50,000 forints more. And what's your answer to that? He does not develop wages, but installs cheap eastern migrant workers in order to break down the Hungarians' wage increase fight. In 2015, you said that economic immigration is a bad thing and now it is a government decree to make it easier for economic immigrants to come to Hungary from countries outside the EU? Prime Minister, how is this now? Do you support economic immigration or not? What's the Fidesz Center's answer to that? What's there to lie about? Here, read something.
u2021-12-06-110	Mr. Head of Action, I respectfully ask you to use a fair tone and a fair tone of voice. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] I give Prime Minister the opportunity to answer.
u2021-12-06-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for saving me from inviting me to an intellectual competition. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] I appreciate that. I wish you a happy Santa. All I want to say to you is that you should look around, and then you'll see that the people you're sitting with were the ones who took away your 13th month pension from people. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] The people you conspire with were the ones who took a month's salary. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: The Jobbik faction was not here!]] Those with whom you are sitting now were those who were doing unemployment above 10 percent during the financial crisis. The people he's now conspiring with, they're the ones who cut the family support system. And speaking of forints, who you're now conspiring with, well, they're the ones who lured families into a foreign currency loan trap. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] And we were the ones who got them out of there. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] , converting the foreign currency debt into HUF, just so that the change in the exchange rate of the forint does not ruin people. The minimum wage during your allies' period was 73 thousand forints, now it will be 200,000 forints from 1 January. And all I can tell you about the cost of living is that you can buy exactly twice as much fuel from the current minimum wage as you can buy from your allies. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-112	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of the faction leader.
u2021-12-06-113	Prime Minister, the last time you talked about it was that you were only asking for ten more years, you really are only asking the Hungarians for ten more years, and you are going to eliminate poverty in this country. Let me ask you, exactly what you've been doing, what you've been doing for the last 11 years. What's the party center's answer to that? [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] What is the answer of the party centre is that in the last 13 years there has been no increase in minimum pensions or family allowances in Hungary, but the forint is a record weak. What is the answer of the party centre to the fact that, with such increases, you could live off 133,000 forints a month? 'Cause the last time I asked you that question, you could lick your mouth and say, "Gyurcsány." Come up with a more creative answer for you, Prime Minister. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: James!]] And finally, here is the most pressing question, because László Kövér recently said that tragedy can happen where insane people are placed in government positions. And now I've got one sitting in front of me in the velvet chair! [[Intercoms from the ruling parties, among other things: Are you talking about this?!]] Prime Minister, when did power take away your common sense? Answer that, no paper. [[To intervene:]] I'm thinking of the Prime Minister. Calm down. [[Whistle. An uproar in the pro-government benches. Applause from the opposition.]]
u2021-12-06-114	Mr. Team Leader, I must give you a warning. You can't make such statements! And I'm asking you very nicely, don't... [[Peter James: László Fat said he was insane! I'm quoting!]] It's not a question of dialogue, Mr. Head of Photography. [[Peter James: I know you don't have dialogue, but we have it! Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Please follow your instructions as well. [[Noise.]] One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister.
u2021-12-06-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, You're misinformed about your own program. The left-wing block wants to stop the reduction of the rent. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] They want to increase the price of electricity, gas and water. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: Is there anything else on the paper?]] I quote: less electricity, less gas, less water, and a smaller car. This is your program. [[Peter James: You drive a plane...]] I also quote: if you think that after VAT cuts, the consumer has to pay less, you are mistaken. All in all, I must say that your programme is a programme of price increases, you represent a programme that endangers people's livelihood; what you are demanding is that we represent it, but unfortunately you cannot sit here. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-06-116	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Bellozó, MSZP representative, immediate question [[Peter James is leaving the Chamber. Nacsa Lőrinc: The Enikő awaits! Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] He wishes to ask Mr. Prime Minister: on the subject of current issues. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor. Here you go. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2021-12-06-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister! We're in the thick of the fourth wave. In the last few days, in recent weeks, as in the third wave, our country is ashamed of the data we see that, unfortunately, most people die in Hungary in the coronal virus epidemic. [[A statement from the opposition: That's right!]] Meanwhile, Prime Minister, I think the whole country was shocked by the news last week, regardless of party standing, when it was found that the National Hospital Directorate-General destroyed PCR tests worth five billion forints. You know, Prime Minister, these are the tests to determine with the utmost certainty whether or not someone is a patient. As far as purchasing prices are concerned, of course, this is also a secret in the present case, which could mean about a million tests. [[14.00]] You know, Prime Minister, today an average Hungarian citizen can get a PCR test in two ways. One is that if you develop symptoms, you are sick, you tell your doctor, you send an ambulance, and if you are lucky, in a few days, if you are not, you are sick at home waiting for the ambulance to arrive and take the test. This, in particular, means a rather brutally long time in Pest County. The other option is that you will go with your own money and get a PCR test for 15-20 thousand forints per person. For a family of four, it's not that hard to calculate, it's 80,000 forints. The Prime Minister knows best that there are situations, whether travel or the use of a service or even the use of a healthcare service, when this is required. Tell me honestly, Prime Minister, is it normal for you to destroy PCR tests for a million instead of giving them free of charge to educational institutions or at least to people required by some rule or legislation to do so? [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-12-06-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-12-06-119	First of all, my honourable fellow Member, allow me to say that the PCR test does not help anything. [[Moraj and intervention from the opposition: Yes!]] It doesn't help anything. It only helps with the vaccine. Therefore, I would ask everyone to encourage Hungarian citizens to take vaccinations, pick up vaccinations, and take on the third vaccination. By the way, if you want to cross a line, you can only use it with great difficulty or not at all. Beyond all this, of course, it would be good to develop stock management where nothing needs to be destroyed, but the fact is that this is impossible. We have to destroy almost everything. When we work with lots this big, millions, including vaccines, there's always something that runs out, runs out, and must be destroyed. That's not the point of defense. The point of defense is to have enough of everything. There's enough of everything: there's hospital bed, there's respirator, there's vaccine, there's PCR and there's quick tests, there's enough for everyone. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-06-120	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Tamás Harangozó, please.
u2021-12-06-121	Thank you very much. It's a rare moment, we agree on one thing. I would also like to make it clear here: vaccination is the most important and we urge everyone to get vaccinated. [[Grumbles and interrogations from the pro-government benches: Applause in the ranks of Fidesz and KDNP. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] But how badly the Prime Minister sees things, and how it directly relates to the shame of living in your country, Prime Minister, that most people are dying in this epidemic right now. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: No, it's not true!]] The point that you have just said is that in neighbouring Austria... [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: You should be ashamed of yourself.]] We're talking about people in neighboring Austria, God bless you! The same number of people live here, in Hungary, a little less, 12 796 people have died so far, and 35 600 have died here. What are you talking about? ! [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] And there, people have free access to the test, and you send the kids to school, the teachers to school without being tested, and they're putting the virus all over the place. Please understand that this is not a matter of principle. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] That's a practical question. Here's to giving these tests for free, and this is to prevent further spread of the virus. Thank you for listening.
u2021-12-06-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is the Prime Minister's word. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-12-06-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I think you know it's untrue. You may also know that this issue has been raised several times here at the plenary session of Parliament. Our Minister of Health has answered this every time, and he has made it clear that if we look at health statistics in the same way, Hungary has nothing to be ashamed of, but nothing to be ashamed of. In addition, I would like to protect doctors and nurses, those working in hospitals, because of what would cause them to die unduly from someone else, as you say, if not from lack of treatment. But that assumption is something I have to refuse. Anyone who talks about more people dying in Hungary than elsewhere also claims that our doctors work worse, that our nurses work worse, and that our hospitals work worse. That's not true! [[Intervention from the opposition benches: Shame!]] Doctors working in hospitals, nurses, people managing hospitals, non-health workers working there, all honestly [[The president's ringing the bell.]] they're doing a great job, and against your accusations, yes, I'll protect them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-06-124	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Ágnes Vadai, a representative of DK, and László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think, Prime Minister? Mr László Szakács, on behalf of the two of them, is the subject of the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-12-06-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, The recurring and increasingly worrying theme of the past few weeks, of course, in addition to the spread of the epidemic, is that inflation is skyrocketing, and there is nothing you have put on two shoulders, and it continues to drag inflation, the taxes of the poor, and the precious thing is terrible. The government disagrees with the central bank, it heats the economy by billions, the central bank disagrees with the government, of course, it heats the economy, but it also raises interest rates, and loans are more expensive. So, neither words nor actions are cooperative, there is no consensus, and you see, this unpredictability, this haste is really creating uncertainty. Prices are rising, prices are rising by 20-30 percent for such basic things as food oil, flour, meat, vegetables, bread, no luxury, nothing extra, just basics, while wages, pensions, incomes are being devalued, and we see that there is no solution, no responsibility, but there is no blinking light at the end of the tunnel. In all other countries, inflation begins with a 4 in our environment, which is around 6-6,5-7 percent. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Although we have known since the Secretary of State of Tállai that the forints are weak and that there is a great deal of preciousness, people do not notice any of this. That's not how we see it. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, and I will not take the easy end, I will not summon the fact that only weak people want weak forints. Prime Minister! Is Vane responsible and is there any way out of this? Is there a normal, economically acceptable solution, not big investments and Eastern loans that violate our sovereignty? [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Thank you.
u2021-12-06-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is given to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-12-06-127	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, I think you're wrong about the numbers. There is high inflation throughout Europe, and we have even gotten to it in the United States. I think that blaming the Hungarian central bank for an international phenomenon is simply not fair, although since the central bank is independent, it is not my job to present their views here. However, if this is the case, and this is the case, that there is inflation in Europe, then why do you want to abolish the reduction in overhead? Then why are they exposed to the fact that the rent, the rent, has to be determined on a market basis? You know that if we were to set the bills at market prices as you propose, people would pay more by tens of thousands of forints. Why would they suggest such things? Why do they represent this position? If the assessment of the situation is true, and there is truth in it, what we have heard from you, then would it not be appropriate to support the government's policy of reducing the debt? If what you say is true and partly true, wouldn't it be logical for you to support, say, our actions to curb fuel prices? But you don't support them, you attack them! Let's sit in smaller cars, wash less, heat less. Is that a reasonable position? I would like to ask you, if the assessment of the situation is true, to support government policy aimed at reducing costs. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-06-128	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Szakács, please.
u2021-12-06-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We have a debate about the lack of state-adjusted prices in Europe, high inflation, high prices in Hungary, and still high inflation, which is higher than the whole of our environment. But, Prime Minister, the forint was also released. I asked the central bank president, he said it was the government's job. I asked the government, they said it was the central bank's job to move within the exchange rate band. Doesn't it look like the forint is unclaimed? [[14.10]] There's a floating exchange rate somewhere, somewhere between the central bank and the Treasury Department because they're throwing it between them like hot potatoes, somehow the damage doesn't have an owner. I listened to it, I asked President Matolcsy about it, who said that inflation was within the range. How wide is this lane? Is it tighter than the Danube? [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] Or is it even wider? What solutions do you see to curb this? Thank you.
u2021-12-06-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-12-06-131	Thank you, Mr. President. I am glad to hear that you asked President Matolcsy, because then you know the answer to your question. [[Dr. László Kács: No!]] After all, if you read the Constitution next to this, you will see where the Hungarian Constitution will place the responsibility for preserving the value of the Hungarian forint. But perhaps this is a less exciting question, more important than that, is that we do not stand by and watch what is happening. And it is not only that we have maximized the price of fuel, for example, but it is not only that we are pursuing a policy of reducing costs, although you are opposed to this, but also that we are raising wages. Yeah. We want people to be able to pay for it so they can buy what they need. That is why we are raising the minimum wage to an unprecedented extent. More specifically, that is why we have been able to agree with trade unions and employers to raise the minimum wage together, which I believe is the greatest success of both employers and the trade union movement over the last ten years. There's never been a minimum wage increase like this before. We will restore what you have destroyed. The 13th month pension will be repaid in full to the pensioners; you took it. So I think that the government doesn't stand by and watch inflation, it does everything that people do. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They can get what they need. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-06-132	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Péter Ungár, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-12-06-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister! Along with the pensions in December, the postman also brought the elderly a newspaper given by the Government of Hungary; this is the newspaper Jókor. In this 16 - page newspaper, the elderly policy of the government is rather polished, which is not surprising because we are used to it. But that's what you're saying at the toast. He says, I quote, that in 2010 we made an agreement with the elderly, according to which Hungarian pensioners also benefit from the results of economic growth. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I've been a Member of Parliament for almost eight years, but I've heard and read about this for the first time. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] So far, it has only been claimed that they will ensure an inflation-following pension increase. What you might have been thinking is probably the pension premium, which the Bajna government has made law. This applies when GDP growth is above 3.5 per cent [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] So, in your last eleven years, you've only received four retirements, which, unfortunately, has not been included in the pension. In the paper, you also say that they will ensure an inflation-following pension increase. There's a little trick in there, though. In recent years, the government has underestimated the expected inflation rate, which it corrected at the end of the year. The result: the government has used part of the pensioner's money for free all year round. By 2022, the government plans to inflation by 3 percent, while the Hungarian National Bank predicts that inflation is expected to be 5 percent, but according to experts it can be higher. Prime Minister! Will you and when will you take the necessary steps to ensure that the rate of pension increase in January is the same as the actual expected inflation rate?
u2021-12-06-134	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-12-06-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm embarrassed: I'm not used to questions in which we're not called imbecile or scoundrel. [[Laughing:]] But I'm trying to answer your question. As far as the past is concerned, I also have to do mandatory practice, but you are in league with those who have taken away the pension from pensioners. [[Noise in the pro-government benches.]] We can't get past this, even if I'm asked 16 times about pensions, I'll always start with this. We're not comparing options here. Well, you steered. They were on the steering wheel. They dealt with a crisis, made decisions. They voted for things here, or they didn't vote for things here. I must therefore start with, unfortunately, while I am trying to answer the specific question fairly, Madam honourable Member, you are in an alliance with those who have destroyed Hungarian pensioners and have taken away a month's pension from them. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right. Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] Between 2002-2010, the real value of pensions fell by 4 percent, and since 2010 not only did the pension retain its value, but it increased by 10 percent. As far as the specific question is concerned. Your question is more than justified and justified, as the budget predicted a 3 percent inflation. The pension increase due from 1 January 2022 was also based on this. However, inflation has since been known to be higher. The central bank has sent us its inflation forecast. In this it says that in 2022 the annual average of inflation will be 5 per cent. That is why the government has decided, and I will soon publish in a regulation that from 1 January the following year, pensions will not be increased by 3 percent, but by 5 percent. Thank you for your attention. [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-06-136	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2021-12-06-137	Prime Minister! Of course, I'm glad to hear that, but I'm also doing the mandatory exercise. You could have started to return your 13th month pension in 2010-2011. [[Intercoms and riots in the benches of the governing parties.]] If they really wanted to. But obviously they didn't want to. The 13th month pension will only be returned when there will be elections next year. [[A lot of noise, a lot of interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's half of it. The other thing I would like to say is that according to Eurostat data, Hungarian pensions are half the purchasing power of the EU average. And if pensioners now receive the 13th month pension, they will still remain in the lower third of this, which was prepared in the European Union for the declaration of pensions. So we should have started to improve the situation of pensioners much sooner, Prime Minister.
u2021-12-06-138	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-12-06-139	I would like to remind the Congresswoman that our intentions were not lacking. It's just, you know, there was a mess here in 2010. [[Intruders from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] An institution called the IMF had an oatla on our neck, if you remember. And you've raised the government debt above 80 percent, and unemployment has been over 10 percent. [[Bence of Turda: How much?]] And in the meantime, wages have been dropping. I would have liked to have raised the first day of not 13 months, but 14 months' pension! [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] But to say to this government that in 2010-11, when you had to put out the village or city that you burned down, you were already thinking, not about giving more, but about putting out the crisis and the fire, it is simply not fair to us, honourable Member. We've made a deal with the pensioners, and we're gonna keep it. The old claim about the relationship between the national government and pensioners is true: accurate accounting, long friendship. Thank you very much. [[A big round of applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-06-140	Thank you very much. [[The applause continues.]] Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What's going on?" It's an address. On behalf of the Head of the Group and the Member, it concerns Mr Bence Tordai. Here you go.
u2021-12-06-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Hungary is the world leader in Covid death in these weeks. Four and a half times as many people die here as the EU average. Overall, we have lost nearly 36,000 of our countrymen. It's like if the entire population of Baja or Vác or Salgótarján had died. The epidemic treatment is a gravely amateur, we are slowly attacking the second vaccinations in the EU, now those who have already received the third vaccination are ordered for a third vaccination, there is hardly any testing, while they themselves destroy one million tests of their own fault, recognised by the Prime Minister, worth HUF 5 billion; contact research is not available; quarantine administration has completely fallen apart. Let's look at another cause of death: air pollution. There is an EU infringement procedure against Hungary because they do nothing to prevent 13,000 people losing their lives every year because of the abnormally high air pollution. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: What did Christmas do?]] Or let's look at cold death, cold death. You, Mr. Orbán, said that we will not freeze in the winter to whom your government has committed. Over the last four winters, 940 Hungarians have frozen, most of them old, small-town, lonely people. It's your responsibility. Overall, the deaths caused by manageable and preventable diseases are 47,000 lost and saved lives per year, the third worst in proportion to the population in the Union. [[14.20]] What is the result of all this? There's no epidemic treatment, they've destroyed health care, social systems, environmental protection, and they're personally promoting unhealthy lifestyles. And in the meantime, there's time for Slippery, artificial lake, bridge, lookout tower of hundreds and thousands of millions of public money. Mr Orbán, my question is: will you finally pull yourself together and do something for the lives of the Hungarian people, or for the remaining four months? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Will they only be busy with lying and stealing?
u2021-12-06-142	Congressman, I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that a decent tone is appropriate to this Parliament. Thank you very much. I will give the floor to the Prime Minister for the answer. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-12-06-143	Thank you very much. Finally. We found our way back to normal. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Of course, the numbers you're saying do not correspond to reality. And the attack on health professionals is disgusting, and I have to reject it. [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's right!]] Health care is not crushed, thousands of people go to work every day and do their job as best they can. Health care isn't messed up, nurses and doctors do heroic work to save people. It's true that you guys are always talking about being beaten up by health care, inciting and exciting me against vaccinations. If we hadn't gotten the Eastern vaccines and given them to people, there would've been a lot of people who would've been devastated, probably a lot of people would've died. In no case could we count on you to support the efforts of the government and Hungarian health care. I would just like to say to the health care community that I remind you that the new law on the status of health reform has been passed by the Hungarian Parliament, and the opposition voted unanimously. That's the rip-off? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-144	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is due to Congressman Bence Tordai. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-12-06-145	This response shows that the Fidesz government is a failure. [[Uproar and clarity in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] After 12 years of government, that's how much you can afford? ! Hiding behind the backs of health workers? ! I'll tell you what's wrong with health: there are thousands of employees missing. And why is that? For they were underpaid; for they had given the doctors a raise, but they had forgotten the workers. So, Mr Orbán, this answer is very weak, the whole government is a pathetic weak discharge, so I'm gonna give you one more chance, I'm gonna ask you again, run for it again. [[Uproar, interrogations from the ranks of the governing parties, including: Take care of yourself. Anarchist!]] Mr. Orbán, are you going to pull yourself together and try to do something for the lives of the Hungarian people, or are you going to spend the remaining four months solely on stealing and spreading your lying propaganda? I'm curious to see you jump the bar for the second time. [[Noise, interrogations from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-146	My warning seems to have been of no use to Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is due to Mr. Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-12-06-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman brought up the workers. The laborers' wages increased by 72 percent in this cycle. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] When you steered, you took a month's wages from the therapists. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, among them: Yes!]] As for the question of theft, I just want to tell you that I can see that it bothers you that you're about to sell City Hall. Congratulations on the effort, it's a great achievement to hire an ex-Prime Minister to be a real estate agent. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I very much hope that you will never come to government, because then you would even sell Parliament. [[Crying out. A big round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-12-06-148	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gyula Budai, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Károly Kontra asked for a reply because of his urgent absence. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much, Mr President, for your acceptance of the response. Congressman Gyula Budai has the floor, please.
u2021-12-06-149	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, The National Bureau of Investigation is conducting eleven investigative procedures for the planned sale of City Hall and the related metropolitan real estate dogs. We're investigating a crime of influence, misdemeanor abuse, fraud, bribery, misappropriation. In three weeks, Mayor Gergely Christmas came from total denial to full confession. According to public recordings, former Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai's men, Deputy Mayor Kiss Ambrus and Csaba Tordai, who is the legal advisor of Christmas, control the capital. A system has been set up to recover 10% of the value of the property sold as commission and is to be counted towards Deputy Mayor Kiss Ambrus. Zsolt Berki was entrusted with the sale of the real estate, who received the documentation of the real estate for sale from the Budapest Property Management Center. Based on the 10% commission system, they wanted to sell the HUF 5.2 billion property, which was owned by Budapest, XI. district, 2-4 Rimaszombati út and worth HUF 2 billion, XI. property located on the corner of the district Etele út-Tétényi út, which was also included in the list of properties published in the press. After the first property in New Buda, a commission of HUF 520 million and a commission of HUF 200 million should have been returned to Deputy Mayor Kiss Ambrus after the second property. The left-wing leadership of the capital with Gergely Christmas would sell everything in the lead if he could. Gyurcsány and the people of the Bajna era have returned, which is why City Hall is full of corruption. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask the Secretary of State which real estate investigations have been carried out in the capital. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-12-06-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary is a democratic rule of law, where no one can be above the law, the law applies to everyone, not the government must tell what is a crime and what is not, but if there is a suspicion of a crime, then the authority must decide on the investigation. In the event of detection or detection of a criminal offence, the police, acting under their general investigative powers, shall, in any event, initiate, carry out, in accordance with the law, and carry out all legal proceedings. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, In cases known as City Hall-gate or Capital Real Estate Doghouse, the immediate question last week was answered by the fact that eleven criminal proceedings were pending. Honourable Congressman, Since then, three additional complaints have been received, with a total of 14 complaints being initiated. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform the honourable Member and the Honourable Parliament that, according to the unbroken practice of the Ministry of Interior, I cannot at present provide any further details of the case in the light of the interests of the proceedings. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Gyula Budai, please.
u2021-12-06-153	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, The Gyurcsány-Bajnai government is the most corrupt government of all time. The City Hall case proves that Ferenc Gyurcsány and Gordon Bajnai have taken over the City Hall. The list of properties published by Gergely Christmas is exactly the same as the properties that Zsolt Berki received from the Budapest Asset Management Center. The mob's network's people are at the trustee's office, and they're at City Hall. All I ask of the investigating authority is that in cases in which an investigation has been ordered, these cases are examined as accurately and as decisively as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder for Secretary of State Károly Kontra, please.
u2021-12-06-155	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The City Hall-gate and the capital real estate cases are outrageous and disturbing to the public, but we also remember the Erzsébetváros electric theft and bitcoin cases. [[14.30]] The Hungarian police act decisively against everyone who violates the law. I would like to inform you that the investigation will cover the examination and investigation of all the circumstances which may be relevant to the criminal rating of the offences committed. In the performance of its duties, the police act without party policy or party influence. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What steps does the Hungarian Government take to protect the education of children? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Minister Bence Rétvári has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his absence. [[On the mark of Dawn Juhász:]] Thank you very much for accepting the response. Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-12-06-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Balliberian political elite in Europe has held that it sees the protection of children in hormone treatment, sex conversion surgeries and LGBTQ propaganda as another wound in the European integration process and is blackmailing countries with politicised pseudo-legal instruments such as our country, which will be Europe's protective bulge in child protection; Europe's bulwark, even if the Left wants to abolish the Child Protection Act and does not support the child protection referendum. Let us be clear: there is an ideological struggle and international organisations are reversing and interpreting fundamental human rights in the opposite way. As Europe's protective bulwark, we need to stop Western trends in the Netherlands and Denmark, where children are strengthened from the age of four; Spain, where there is no parental consent from 14 years of age; Sweden, where the number of little girls who feel like boys has increased by 1500 percent. We have already succeeded in the referendum together once, Hungarians, so we have a huge responsibility to fight on such crucial issues as the right of parents to raise and sexually educate children. We need to see that the referendum has also been able to stop the mandatory quota and the issue of illegal migration, as protecting children is also a protection of Europe's future. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State what the Hungarian Government is doing to protect the education of children. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-158	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer, as I said, will be from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-12-06-159	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In fact, the LGBT organizations have chosen a new battlefield, the kindergartens and schools, the kindergartens and schools, to take what they practice in their own adult lives. We think that every adult has a private life, but children are different. When parents let their children into kindergarten, when parents let their children into school, they would prefer that the children be raised there, not against them, but with the family. We can see that on the liberal side, on the left, they think otherwise. We could read other examples beyond what you said. For example, in the BBC, an English educator said that children should receive LGBT ideology as young as possible in order not to adopt a Christian approach. We have seen that in Belgium, despite the epidemic, when important surgeries were postponed in 2020, there were capacity for more than 400 non-transmutation surgeries. In Austria, we saw that the McDonald. sban was added to the Happy Meal menu with an LGBT lobbyist's image, and the children could ask for his propaganda storybook. And we have recently seen that the special representative of the European Union LGBT, which is funded by all of us, dressed up as the Virgin Mary and thus provoked Christians. There was no content of this which was related to LGBT people, but only the content of it that was trying to provoke Christian people. We also saw how a Soros organization, the Háttér Society, wanted to rewrite the National Basics before 2010, for example, to watch films about Pride from media knowledge, to teach geography about the geographical location of LGBT persons, to organize trips to LGBT organisations in programmes outside school, and to go to such exhibitions. Hungary is the first European Union country where people are not politicians, but people can say that they are letting the LGBT propaganda into kindergartens and schools with their children or not. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. Here you go.
u2021-12-06-161	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Part of our civilization struggle is to protect our Jewish-Christian traditions and fight against genderpropaganda and illegal migration. Let us never forget that our Fundamental Law states the right to self-identify according to the sex of children's birth. This is what we need to defend, and in the case of the referendum on child protection, we ask for the strength and support of the Hungarians to send a message to Europe and tell Brussels that we are in favour of our Christian culture and traditions. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-162	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2021-12-06-163	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Allow me a few quotes that would please LGBT organizations as well: The Earth family should be destroyed in theory and practice. The elimination of the family is one of our important intentions. The atheistic state is democratic. It is necessary to make as many gaps as possible in the machine of the Christian state. The family disappears when the capital disappears. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. These sentences could be written on the banners at a BLM protest or LGBT demonstration, but they were not written now, but they were written a century and a half ago by Charles Marx. Those who claim to be very progressive that they bring the social picture of the future will bring nothing new: they represent the anti-family, anti-national and anti-Christian ideology that Charles Marx represented 150 years ago. Nothing new, no progression, no vision, only the image of the terrible, dictatorial, people-repressive system that Hungary has suffered for 40 years is emerging again; we do not want to be included in this again. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Competitive education with uncompetitive teachers' wages? It's an address. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-12-06-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, Please allow me to begin my speech with two citations, which act as an evidence for Jobbik. They say: "The power of a nation lies in the multitude of educated heads of men. The future will be the same as today's school. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Prime Minister, Believe me, none of these ideas were suggested by Brussels, Soros or Gyurcsány to Széchenyi or Albert Szent-Györgyi, and I would also like you to believe that I myself prefer to rely on the views of my children and colleagues at three different levels of public education bleeding from thousands of wounds. So I'm forced to ask you how they're going to end their third two-thirds cycle with the question of how to settle teachers' wages so many times. What's the matter, and let's not talk about moral respect here. Prime Minister! In today's school, and by chance, I don't mean those high-priced elite schools, private schools where NER's luxurious, urizing, big parize... big parasites... [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Big Parizer!]] they love to write their children, but to go to everyday school [[The president's ringing the bell.]] ; indeed, weary teachers who are struggling with financial problems teach our children, this is not a national interest at all. What do you intend to do about it? Prime Minister! How much responsibility do you feel about the fact that, now, within the European Union, the domestic pedagogical society is one of the most aged and poorer? The pension bomb is ticking, which is going to explode, and thousands of people are leaving the cathedral because of the mandatory vaccination, and I would add that young people are not coming because it's not an attractive track, because you can also make as much as, say, as a teacher. Prime Minister! When are you going to finish throwing away the fidesz education policy, which, by the way, is anti-knowledge and intellectual, as a sacrifice to the nation's day laborers? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-12-06-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister. [[14.40]]
u2021-12-06-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Teacher wages are low in Hungary, and, as you said, they are below the level of rival sectors. This needs to be changed. The following year we will be able to carry out a 10 percent increase in teachers' wages, and in the next period, we hope, after winning the elections, we will be able to repeat the series of measures we took in 2013-14, when we first raised the wages of teachers by about 50 percent of all public sector sectors. Since then, time has left this behind, educators are right, they rightly argue that there should be a wage arrangement similar to the previous one. That's gonna happen. However, what I can tell you and the teachers is that your allies are more precisely: now, allies expanded with you, we call them left-wing blocks for simplicity; let me also be kind to you in 2010 they spent 1400 billion forints on education. This was HUF 2240 billion in 2021, the year where we are now. That's a 72 percent increase. I don't think it's enough, but it's still a lot more than what you did when you took away a month's share of your income from the teachers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-168	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Ander Balázs. Here you go.
u2021-12-06-169	Prime Minister, you listed numbers, but you forgot to add one, how much the forint has been cheap since 2010 if you like it and how much inflation has been in Hungary. Then, if you were to read not only the propaganda reports of Secretary of State Rétvári, but also the annual reports of the National Faculty of Pedagogism, you could see that they clearly describe that teachers' wages are simply not enough to enable them to live an intellectual life. If you look at the so-called wage pressure gauge operated by the trade unions, you will also see, Prime Minister, that on a monthly basis, the so-called screening fund has been frozen at the level of 2014. And if the Prime Minister read, say, Magdolna Csath and listened to his words, then a new model would be introduced here in Klebelsberg, because what is now and what they are planning is very, very far away from it, and this is very bad for the country's competitiveness and for the future of the nation. That's not what we're asking for. That's what we're gonna change after the 2022 win. Thank you.
u2021-12-06-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-12-06-171	I agree with most of what you have told me, and I see what is to be done in the same way as you do, and I just want to remind you that you have joined forces with those who have taken a month's salary from teachers. I don't see what good it would do for teachers to have those who took a month's salary from them on the government. They may not be happy with us either, but we did not take a month's salary from them, but we tried to raise wages. Why would it be good for us to go back to the past? Hungary must go forward and not back. But after you said you'd win, I think it's important to remind you of some of your former thoughts, because I remember you earlier as our most radical anti-Gyurcsány potential ally. I didn't do this for no reason. On August 30, 2016, he said: "It is a shame that Ferenc Gyurcsány and his associates, responsible for the 2006 police terrorism, were not put behind bars. In January 2019 he ruled out cooperation with Ferenc Gyurcsány. In January 2020, he spoke of the fact that there could not be a common list of oppositions. My fellow Member, how do we take you seriously now? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-172	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Because of the Minister's absence, he appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond. With all due respect, you'll accept the recipient's identity.
u2021-12-06-173	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2021-12-06-174	Thank you very much for accepting the response. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-12-06-175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I would pick up where I left off my question and read on the signals of parents and teachers. The majors at school are preparing for the finals, graduations, admissions that teachers and subjects disappear for weeks, months, and a year and a half without replacement. Education, CDC and all the centers are also dragging their shoulders to solve it while not testing, but... no mask is given to any teacher anywhere, at any time. Once the teacher and the whole class are in school for one fucking week, they'll write eight finales quickly to get tickets. Of course, everyone's doing a shitty job, because no one's giving the material, no one's prepping you for the papers, no time to give. They are written to us every day, but you can also find them on the Internet, and I hope that you will receive these signals from parents, teachers. Mr. Secretary of State said, and the Prime Minister said that they were prepared for everything and that they were handling the epidemic. Then tell me how it can happen, and once again I ask you that a 5 billion HUF test has been destroyed. If this can be called stock management, it should be called stock management. It's worth 5 billion forints! In the meantime, it could cost a Hungarian family 80 to 100 thousand forints if you want to test your family. How could it happen, Mr. Secretary, that we did not give this to Hungarian families, mothers, fathers, children? Minister Gulyás said that taxpayers' money cannot be wasted. You wasted it. How could they not give a free test of the Hungarian taxpayers' money to Hungarian families who can only get the test for money? ! And you destroyed a test worth 5 billion forints. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-12-06-176	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer, as I said, will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-12-06-177	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, If the congresswoman continued where she left off, so did I. It's been an hour and a half since my last answer. Yesterday was 17 years ago that you were one of the faces of the campaign in which Hungarians were instigated against Hungarians. It was written on the poster that it was a responsible decision, honourable Member. The responsible decision would be to apologize to the Hungarian people after 17 years and 1 day. Attila Mesterházy behind you was able to do this when he went to Transylvania and apologized for what the MSZP had done then. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Why can't you see after 17 years that the crime against Hungarians was what they did? But it would be the same crime today if your health politician, Imre László, had a plan to close 45 percent of the hospitals. Then where would people get the shots during the vaccination week? Then where would they treat the patients with the coronal virus? Or if we still had to pay a visitation fee, if we still had to pay a hospital allowance, which you introduced, and we helped people with a referendum to abolish it, where would the epidemic treatment take place? Where would the Hungarian epidemic treatment be if people were first shown the visitation fee machine that they had to pay there? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In Hungary, the rate of the third vaccination is 27 per cent, the rate of the repeat booster vaccination is 12 per cent; in the European Union, it is 12 per cent. You saw it, you were here in Parliament when we achieved 25 percent grafting, 50 percent grafting in front of other countries because we didn't listen to you. To this day, you are on Parliament's website and your proposal for a parliamentary decision banning the Chinese and Russian vaccines, which, according to scientific research published a few weeks ago, is responsible for the lives of around 4,000 Hungarians. How dare you, when you are a Member, not to get more co-acquired vaccines from Brussels, or not to arrive here in 12 months, but to arrive here in 12 days? You only did what you did 17 years ago, that Hungarians were threatened, then the unity of Hungarians and Hungarians, and now the health of Hungarians and the lives of Hungarians, by constantly tuning against vaccines. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-06-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2021-12-06-179	Thank you, Mr. President. 35,611 people. When are they apologizing for their murderous epidemic? 35,611 men! When will you apologize to the Hungarian people for the hundreds of billions of forints you stole from the Hungarian taxpayers in connection with the disease management? When are you apologizing? When are they apologizing for burning a HUF 5 billion free test that could have been given to people? When they apologize for not arresting a single Fidesz entrepreneur, even though ministers in the neighbouring countries have already fallen for either the acquisition of a respirator or the acquisition of tests. [[14.50]] Not with you, you don't even apologize, do you, Secretary of State? They're saying you guys did everything right. 35,611 people were reported today. When are you apologizing to these people's family? Answer me that, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-12-06-180	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-12-06-181	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, We miss every fellow countryman we've lost, and we work to keep as few as possible of the people we've lost. And if you look at the European Union countries and Hungary, in which country the surplus mortality was compared to 2019 compared to the last year before the epidemic, then I think that we can be proud of the Hungarian doctors, we can be proud of the Hungarian nurses and we can be proud of everyone involved in the defense. Because if I look at the data of 20, the additional mortality data, Hungarian doctors, nurses and defenders were better able to work than French, Maltese, Croatian, Portuguese, Slovak, Dutch, Lithuanian, Romanian, Czech, Bulgarian, Belgian, Slovenian, Polish, Italian and Spanish. Unfortunately, Hungary's excess mortality in Europe was one and a half times the average within the European Union. And if you are looking at this year, which is not yet a full year, you can see that the Hungarian defence was the most effective of the Visegrád countries, and there are hardly one or two Central European countries, let's say Austria and Slovenia, where there are better figures and fewer deaths. Thanks to Hungarian doctors, thanks to Hungarian nurses today, tomorrow and every day. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-06-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It's 2:51 p.m., and we're done with Question Time. [[Several Members leave the Chamber. It's a short break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask all those who are leaving the Chamber on an urgent matter to do so as quickly and as quietly as possible so that we can continue our work. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr János Bencsik applied for a speech. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-12-06-183	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, There's been a lot of competition here for the last hour or two. There have been various data and accusations about the failure to test the population in Hungary, how there is no normal, traceable contact research, how and why PCR tests worth five billion forints had to be destroyed that could have been used to test the Hungarian population, which raises the government's responsibility for the disease management quite strongly. It was also said that the parliamentary decision proposal, which was submitted by the left-wing opposition parties, which would have made vaccination with the Russian and Chinese vaccines impossible, was banned, so I have to say that the competition is strong enough if we look at who has been more irresponsible in dealing with the corona virus epidemic in the last year and a half. Both the ruling parties and the left-wing opposition parties have taken part in this. Well, there's an opportunity for everyone to clear up a little bit. Tomorrow, the Justice Committee will discuss the motion of its representatives to the Civil Reply, which would not only allow, but also oblige, all Members of Parliament to take vaccination on a compulsory basis. This is because although it is mandatory for the employees of the Parliament's Office, every employee who works in the Parliament's Office must be vaccinated. There is a legal vacuum, and we Members of Parliament do not have an employer, to be more precise: our employer is the Hungarian people, so there is no one to order this compulsory vaccination. Well, we don't think that's okay. However, I am pleased to see that some of my fellow Members have taken on this issue and have expressed their support. I am pleased to see that there has finally been a case in which the political affiliation has been put aside, and from the faction of the MSZP to the former representative of the Hungarian Movement, Erik Fülöp has been supported by a number of people. So I would like to ask you, every single one of my fellow Members, no matter which party you are from, that we take responsibility and take the lead in this matter. It is quite unacceptable that today, in Hungary, it is possible to impose an indirect obligation on a person to be vaccinated while, at the same time, the people, the representatives, the guardians of the law, who are responsible for this, do not consider it mandatory for themselves. Well, Mr. Károly Kontra, Secretary of State for Home Affairs, spoke about it half an hour ago, and I quote him: "No one can be above the law, the laws apply to everyone, and on a completely different matter. I would like to ask you now that if the laws are applicable to everyone and no one is above the law, then how is it that Parliamentary Members are above the law in the matter of compulsory vaccination? You tolerate and tolerate this without blinking. Where's the equality of rights at a time like this? Where is everyone's equal principle before the law? The truth is, in this case, there is absolutely no credibility in any information campaign, any government communication, if people see that people who should set an example, who should start following the law themselves, show no willingness to acknowledge it as binding on themselves. It is easy to see that in the current situation, when there are many questions, fears, anxiety about vaccinations, each such action, each such attitude has a very, very bad message. Therefore, in addition to the mandatory vaccination, we also initiated that the Hungarian government should finally issue data, so that we can see how many people in Hungarian hospitals are vaccinated and uninoculated, who are in need of serious care, who are on the ventilator. We know only a few data that are slowly leaking from the Hungarian Medical Association, for example, but if everyone had access to these data, then I think that a lot of fear, delusion and conspiracy theory could compete. So I would ask you to set an example, take responsibility for this case, if you have failed in many other important cases before. The Civil Reply is in favour of common sense, example and responsibility in this matter, as is all else. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-12-06-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied to speak after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-12-06-185	Mr President, Dear House, On 1 September, the Government of Hungary made use of a government decree which, once again, facilitates the organized import and resettlement of labour from third countries and, where appropriate, from exotic countries to Hungary. This is in sharp contrast to government communication, although it has already fallen apart during the period of settlement bonds, when rich migrants were given the hallway of Hungarian citizenship for money, and we also see on the migrant front that Hungary's Government is not interested in developing programmes to help Hungarians leave forced abroad. [[15.00]] It also tolerates the fact that in Hungary, our fellow citizens who could work if they had the opportunities to do so would remain inactive in a very wide range of hundreds of thousands. At the same time, it enters into an agreement with the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, the Republic of Indonesia and the Philippines on the organised import of labour, the labour force from there into the operations of several multi-company companies, thereby contributing to the acceptance of uncomfortable, inflexible working conditions and the very slow increase of the very slowly rising wage level, either fragmented or, where appropriate, halted. On the contrary, we see that in November 2021 more than 240 thousand Hungarian job seekers were included in the register of the National Employment Service, and that only 143 thousand job seekers were entitled to any kind of cash benefits during the month concerned. The cruelest government in Europe operates a narrow unemployment benefit system, which means that the government of Hungary has been trying to lead them towards the bled-out municipalities for over three months, despite the fact that 100,000 of our countrymen have been looking for work. The success quotient of this is well-known. What we see, however, is that while the cruelest government in Europe is paying a severely reduced amount of unemployment benefits for three months, the average time to find a job is 14.6 months among the people examined. We see, therefore, that almost a year-long periods are completely unsatisfactioned for those who, with help, might be able to fill the same jobs that the Government of Hungary is organizing to bring guest workers from the Filipino world or even from the Republic of Indonesia. We also see that in November 2021 there were 17 almost 18,000 entries in the register. So, if we look at the list of professions to which the government would import foreigners, we can see that, with regard to carpenters, locksmiths, restaurant workers, these beginners might be able to fill these jobs with a proper motivational system. It is clear that geographical points and their place of residence should be taken into account, but it is also clear that a rational investment distribution could help this situation. The picture is even more painful if we look at jobseekers who are permanently registered for more than one year. They are almost 17 percent more than they were a year ago, so it seems that the 94,000 permanent jobseekers are in a position to seek that job, but without help they have no chance of finding it. Once again, the question arises, if the Government of Hungary designates more than 30 gaps and the workers from the Socialist Republic of Vietnam do not examine whether Hungarian citizens in an inactive circle are open to, say, state-funded re-training programmes. Let us say that they should appear on the primary labour market with a decent housing programme. We, the bettermen, claim that the chances of freedom of well-being are due to everyone, so it would be justified to open these gates. The situation is clear in Hungary: there are more than 200,000 people here who would be able to enrich this country with their tax payments every month, and we are forced to meet hundreds of thousands of people from abroad, who could also enrich this country in the case of an appropriate motivational environment. The Government of Hungary has chosen another way. In 2014, the number of new residence permits was slightly above 20,000 in the order of magnitude, and in 2019 it exceeded 60,000, so the government tripled the number of working hands imported from abroad. On the other hand, we want to ensure the possibility of prosperity, prosperity and freedom for all Hungarians in the homeland. Thank you for your attention and patience, Mr President.
u2021-12-06-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. There is no reason to ask for my patience, he finished his speech accurately for a second. Thank you very much. To speak after the agenda from the Fidesz Group, Mr Péter Ovádi has applied. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-12-06-187	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Six years ago, the Hungarian government and county-owned municipalities formed an alliance, and this association became the programme of modern cities. In 2016, Veszprém County City also concluded this with the government. We can say that at that time the projects that we have been able to implement and hand over have seemed like a dream, and Veszprém and the regionals can use it. Looking at this program, perhaps one of our most spectacular investments was the sports swimming pool in Veszprém. The sports swimming pool was a very old dream of the people living in and around Veszprém, because Veszprém is a sports town, and we really wanted to have our own swimming pool. The program of modern cities made it possible to host, for example, our Olympic silver athlete Kristóf Rasovszky. But, of course, school children and kindergarten children can use it. Veszprém lacked the fact that the Veszprém Gymnastics Club, which is more than 50 years old, did not have a regular gymnast practitioner. This wish was also included in the program of the modern cities, and we have been able to give the gymnast practice last week with Hungarian Zoltán Olympic Champion and Krisztián Berki Olympic Champion. I think, just like they said, that it's 21. Veszprém gymnasts can exercise under century conditions, and our building is very impressive, which we are very, very proud of. But in recent months we have been able to present the renovated building of the Antal Chermák School of Music, which, I think, as the holder of the title of the cultural capital, was very, very important to us, because there are a lot of students at the music school. Also, when it comes to culture, it is very important to mention that the reconstruction of the Veszprém Petőfi Theatre has also begun, the renovation of its first phase is already underway. But if you look at the programme of modern cities, you can see that together with the Veszprém Vocational Training Centre and entrepreneurs, the development of Szakipark and Industry Park is also progressing at a very good pace. If the development is listed in the region, then the development of Route 8, the southern bypass should also be considered. We'll be able to pass another platoon soon. Again, I cannot stress that I thank Veszprém and its residents very much for their patience, because renovation always involves closure. But by the time it's done, we can really travel on a very high-quality road. If you look at the programme of modern cities, it will continue, as a new investment will be launched, and this is to improve inland roads. The municipality received a grant of HUF 5 billion. Veszprém and its region are also in a lucky position to become the cultural capital of Europe in 2023. This programme also entails infrastructure development. We thank the Government of Hungary very much for supporting this programme as well. Two projects have been launched that the Veszprém people have long been waiting for. One is the renovation of the old building of the Heim Pál Children's Hospital. This old Long Street on Jókai Street is the renovation of building number 8, the emblematic Ruttner house, and this can happen now. I think that, together with the government, Veszprém and its region are on the right track for development, so we want to keep this direction in the future. Thank you so much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-06-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Anett Bősz has applied for a speech from the DK Group after the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-12-06-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is often thrown aside by the pro-government representatives of Érd, whether it is the local board meeting or here, the plenary session of the Parliament, or a confused publication called Érd News, that there is no development of any kind in the county-righted town of Érd. By the way, the lucky ones who haven't met him can imagine it as a printed form of a city Pest Boy. You don't want to see him. [[15.10]] My fellow Member, András Aradszki, has not had much ground for his development in the last two to 2.5 years, since he has had an unfavorable result in the municipal elections, he has been able to criticize the current city leadership. I'll tell you why right now. The previous management has not been able to develop an industrial park in the city in 13 years that provides the settlement with sufficient local industrialisation tax revenues, so in recent years the settlement has received an amount of HUF 1 billion in budget support. The city of Érd received this order, but in 2019 after the local elections, this assistance was lost. The same has happened in 2020 and we have not been avoided either by reducing the revenue from the local parish tax or by taking away the car tax. Thus, a deficit of 3.2 billion has been blocked by these forces in the Érd budget. However, the city administration was not frightened, started negotiations with the government and negotiated a compensation of HUF 777 million. I am telling you why I am talking about this, contrary to what our fellow Member, András Aradski, claims to have obtained this money. On city television, our fellow Member, András Aradszki, said on the day when a government decision was taken about this HUF 777 million, that if he could imagine a compensation of HUF 100 million for the city of Érd, that is, he did not know that the government had already judged the city on the basis of the negotiations. Despite the lack of money, the opposition alliance began to keep its promise. It took luck, too, but, honourable Members, there are athletes sitting in this room besides me, and we believe that in life, the one who does the most to play the least possible role is lucky. Well, that's what happened, I think, with the asphalting program in Ordda, because when, despite the lack of money, the new city leadership wanted to start implementing the election promises, they took down about a hundred kilometers of asphalt from the M1 and it was affordable. Thus, with modest technical content, urban asphalting could begin, which, by the way, aims to eliminate a unique situation, since nearly three quarters of the roads are covered in this city. The current city administration thus covered 30 streets and signed a further 15 streets under a public procurement procedure. That's 45 streets in two years. We are aware that there could have been more, but it could have been more if the city had a little more financial opportunities. In addition, a sidewalk construction programme was launched, which started at the ambulances, Diósdi Street, Szovátai Street, Lower and Upper Street, a section of Bajcsy and Balatoni Road, and has completed the construction of the sidewalk at certain stages, and started to pay off its decades of debt with tender money, for example in the forest-bokros area behind the Szapáry Castle and the farmhouse. It is also important to note that for the first time since the change of regime, the current city leadership has taken steps to rebuild the former Szapáry Castle, which was very popular with the Érdians, on the occasion of the 500th anniversary of the Battle of Mohács, since it started from here. Louis to battle. It would be good if this were also taken into account by the pro-government fellow Members. On Beliczay Island, the reconstruction of the Beliczay House is launched, and the thermal hotel, which has worked as a ghost house, is being renovated. There will be a museum here, because the number of rooms is not enough to make it profitable. This was wrong earlier in the construction process; it is not the city's fault, but it is doing everything it can to make the most of the situation, just as it does from the extremely tight financial situation. It is not true, therefore, that many fidesz politicians raise that the city administration is inactive, but it is that it has made the most of the situation compared to modest opportunities. After the change of government, there'll be more. Thank you for listening.
u2021-12-06-190	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congressman Bence Tuzson has applied for a speech from the Fidesz Group after the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-12-06-191	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dunakeszi, Fot, Göd, Csomad, Csömör, Erdőkertes and Veresegyház, these settlements belong to the 5th constituency of Pest county. This is an area that is one of the fastest developing regions in the country. But not only is it the fastest-growing area, but it is also an area in which it is good to live, where quality of life is outstanding compared to the rest of the country, and even surveys now show that this area is indeed an area where the quality of life is indeed extremely high. What's the secret? How could this group of settlements, these settlements, have developed so quickly in recent years, in the last ten years? How could these settlements turn from sleeping settlements into real communities, real communities? There are not only residents in these settlements, but people who have done a lot to form a real community here, because there are schools from the ground, kindergartens from the walls of this House, we have already talked about this, there has been a major development of transport, there are already bunk trains, and our plans include the construction of bypass roads, rail development, school development, and we would like to continue on the road we have already started. That is why it is a special pleasure for us that in recent times improvements and decisions have been made to serve the people who live here. Yes, there are a lot of decisions, and let me say a few words about some of the government's decisions that affect the country as a whole, but this area in particular, because there are a lot of young people with families. This is the benefit for young people, young workers, the tax relief for people under the age of 25. This potentially affects 15,000 young people in the region, so this is very helpful. It is also a great help to those living here that recent decisions have been made that have also increased wages, as the minimum wage will be HUF 200,000, and the guaranteed minimum wage will be HUF 260 thousand, so the minimum salary of professionals, which affects an enormous number of people in the constituency, and it is also very important to support the elderly, as the elderly are those who are part of the family. In families where there is a grandmother, there is a grandfather, they can help families, young families with children as well. Well, the decisions that were taken last time, such as the issue of retirement, the decision on the pension premium, concern 27,000 pensioners in my constituency. It is a very serious decision, and it is also very big support, and just as much support is the decision made last April, the implementation of which was accelerated by the Hungarian government, that the 13th month pension will be restored next year, and from now on all 27 thousand pensioners will receive the 13th month pension from next year. The 13th month pension is therefore a huge help: it is a great help to Hungarian families, a great help to Hungarian pensioners as well. And we could list a number of such help, which is the help for Hungarian families. For those who raise their children in the family, if the country's economic performance is serious, if a country is strong, then Hungarian families must be considered. The Hungarian families, who were suffering from the coronal virus situation, know exactly how difficult it was when children couldn't go to school, how they had to organise the custody of children and babysitting. Indeed, if the country's economic performance allows, these families must also be helped, and it is therefore a very serious decision that the paid-up property paid by Hungarian families, families with children, comes back to the Hungarian families. This also affects thousands of families in my constituency, which is one of the youngest constituencies in the country, and where most children are, because the Dunakeszi District is also the district and the district where most children are and where most children are raised by families. I would like to thank the Hungarian Government on behalf of the Hungarian families and the people who live there for the help it has done for the people in the vicinity of Dunakeszi. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-06-192	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of Parliament, has applied for a post- Agenda speech from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor. [[15.20]]
u2021-12-06-193	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At the bottom of Sopron's pine forest, the song used to sound. We may not be able to sing this song much longer in reality. When I was young, in my childhood, my parents' house in Sopronbánfalva was still a pine forest, where we spent the summers with the boys next door. But even 30 years ago, there were spruce trees on a thousand hectares of the 4,000 acres of Sopron forests. At present, this area has narrowed to only 200 hectares, and it is feared that climate change, global warming, will continue to reduce the wildlife of spruce trees. This began with the fact that in the 1990s, spruce trees were missing a lot of rain, as spruce is the higher area, the mountain tree, which also requires plenty of precipitation. In the '90s, this decline of spruce began, and because of the drought, the weakened trees were attacked by the sou, so they had to be cut off. The Sopron forest farm, by the way, quite rightly, then usually replaces spruce trees with oaks and beech trees, because unfortunately, these beautiful pine trees would not survive from the seeds. The truth is that, of course, climate change and the protection of forests are issues that cannot even be solved by the government of our country, but that we need a global cooperation. At the same time, I think that it is very important in this case that not only economic aspects apply in Hungary, but also the protection of our natural environment; here I would also refer to the large Fidesz investment in Lake Fertő, which also caused a great deal of dust in my constituency. Here, in fact, and in relation to the forests, it is also attached to this that the curatorium appointed by Fidesz at the University of Sopron, which was basically a university of forestry and wood industry, was once the head of the Curatorium of Csányi bank, and especially with regard to forestry, I think that this is not a reassuring news for the citizens of Sopron. But I am confident that if the citizens of the Sopron region vote for me in the election next year, our future national unity government will be able to stop further negative trends here. Dear House, Mr President, This year the Christmas tree will be nearly 20 percent expensive, according to the sellers. In addition, the sellers are using a trick that we have become more and more accustomed to, and we have to pay close attention to when we buy a product, that they are not measuring the pine tree before Christmas, but the number. I would like to draw everyone's attention here to the fact that you should take a very good look at how the number of units is then weighed down to the price converted to one meter, as this could also be a hidden price increase and then a kind of instrument used by trade. The fact that 400 to 500 thousand of the two and a half million Christmas trees sold are usually imported makes general inflation even more difficult and aggravated by the fact that the euro is constantly weakening, and this increases the price of imported pine trees, which, of course, will fall on all the pine trees sold, so that general and extremely high inflation is unfortunately now also projected for the Christmas period. I believe that in this case, too, our future national unity government will make very serious efforts, which will then strengthen the forint with a balanced economic policy and not weaken it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-12-06-194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Sándor Székely applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-12-06-195	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The government of Fidesz-KDNP has unfortunately not eliminated the social crisis in the last 12 years, failed in this respect, and unfortunately failed in the last two years in the treatment of the Covid epidemic. The current conditions are quite terrible, and we do not know what the fifth and sixth waves will bring, so my party, the Yes Solidarity Movement for Hungary, has submitted a proposal for a decision in which we ask that vaccination be really compulsory in Hungary. How did we get here that we really need to submit such a drastic decision proposal to the Hungarian Parliament? Let's take a look. For the first time in the last 12 years, Fidesz-KDNP has ruined Hungarian health care, which is not yet strong, so this pandemic has been hit with a fundamentally weak health care. The masses of the Covid epidemic, who enter the health care system, are simply their care that prevents other patients from being able to deal with health care workers. There is an amazing amount of diagnosis missing, surgeries missing, dramas taking place not only in the Covid classes, but also, unfortunately, the other diseases are very serious. The Hungarian government has taken a series of conflicting measures throughout the epidemic, and now allow me to highlight some of them. When there were five fatalities per day in the Covid epidemic, Hungary was closed for months, now, unfortunately, when 200 deaths per day occur, there are no such measures. There were times when the bus, public transport, could only be used in masks, cinemas, theatres were closed, but sports events, football courts could be visited by tens of thousands, and to say the worst, a few months ago, on 23 October, the government itself organized a mass demonstration of hundreds of thousands, a few days before the fourth wave exploded. I think we can't find anything worse than that on Earth. Then there was a legislative madness. The Hungarian government has submitted the Health Act, in which, quite rightly, it has increased the wages of Hungarian doctors, but it has not barely increased or even increased the wages of hospital and other health workers, or has made such basic institutional withdrawals in this law that many workers have had even less wages. Thus, in the middle of a pandemic, thousands of people left health care, and thousands of people are still thinking about leaving. In addition, the Hungarian government squandered the summer. They said it was solved, we once inoculated all the people, and then it was over from here on out, when we knew the fourth wave was coming. We are in it, and instead of practicing and drawing attention to the fact that this situation continues, unfortunately we continued in the same place where we ended in the spring. Besides, what kills us and literally destroys our morale, our country's mental health, is a lack of information. We simply do not have accurate information about this disease for two years now, not long ago, not now. We don't know who's in intensive care, we don't know they've been vaccinated, we don't know what vaccinations they've been given. We are quite simply without information, and this also gives room to the conteos reinforced by the extreme right and to the very amazing mass hysteria generated by the media. So it's quite serious. Allow me to read some numbers, the mortality figures per million in some countries: in Slovakia 26 percent, Austria 61 percent, Romania 19 percent, Ukraine 41 percent, Denmark 86 percent less people died per million than in Hungary. These are tragedies. I think, given the situation that has arisen, that we demand information, that Hungarian citizens know who is in the hospital at the moment, that they have been vaccinated, that they have been given, that they have been vaccinated, that they have been given, and that, in order to simply eliminate the possibility of further epidemics, in the event that manufacturers undertake the long-term operation of the vaccine or vaccines and take responsibility for this, the Hungarian Government should introduce spending vaccination and take responsibility for this. Thank you so much for listening. [[15.30]]
u2021-12-06-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, From the Fidesz Group, Mr Csaba Nagy has applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-12-06-197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The center of the 4th constituency of Baranya county is Szigetvár, and the most populous city of the constituency, Becefa and Zsibot, with more than 10,000 inhabitants. The settlement is a regional, social, economic and transport centre and carries out significant tourism because of the Zrínyi cult and the Zrínyi heritage, as well as related to the castle. Overall, over the past four years, HUF 8.6 billion of development resources have arrived in Szigetvár. In this context, a number of investments have been made and very important investments have been made in recent years. If I may, I would like to look at these in my speech today. One of the most important things I consider is road safety and investment in transport development. In Szigetvár, two roundabouts could be built in total within the framework of the application submitted by the city from the operational programme for territorial and urban development. In the southwestern part of the city, between the Almás Creek and Hoboli Road, a bicycle route was built. It is important to note that the design of the bike route between Szigetvár and Kaposvár is under way. In the first half of 2023, authorisation and export plans will be ready. It is also important to talk about the M60, as in the past, in 2009, the left-wing government stopped the construction and preparation of this road and the planning. The civilian government has restarted this work. On 30 November 2017, the trail itself received an environmental permit. I think it has also been a very important decision in the past period that the government has brought the preparation of the permit plans up to a year, and at the moment, we stand to have the authorisation plans submitted to the authorities of Pest County and Baranya County on 16 November, so the authorisation procedure itself is also under way. I also consider it important that more than 1 billion HUF 140 million of development funds have come to health care. The Szigetvár Hospital was able to rip a significant amount out of this for itself, since it had six winners' applications, and the medical office in the city was renewed in the downtown, where four general practitioners serve their services. One of our most important national monuments is the Castle of Szigetvár, in recent years there has been 2 billion HUF development funds for the castle, the castle, the castle, the kazamata system, the renovation, the expansion, the construction of exhibition halls, the strengthening of several sections of the castle wall, and 640 million HUF for the visitors' centre. I very much hope that the city will be able to resolve this problem with government help, because it is very important that we can complete this investment as well. At the schools the Istvánffy Miklós Primary School and the Tinódi Lantos Sebestyén School were renovated from 650 million HUF. Last but not least, I would also like to talk about the state of kindergartens, because it was very important that the city was able to apply for 400 million forints from county sources, from county sources to EU funds, the Micimackó Kindergarten was renewed in Radovan Square, the Green elf in the Szent István settlement. But in the third kindergarten, Sunshine Kindergarten, there were huge problems: this kindergarten had to be moved more than three years ago from the place where happy baby noise had been found for decades. It turned out that, in my opinion, the city still needs 266 million forints more than 133 million forints to complete this kindergarten because of design and construction problems. Given that kindergarten moved here three years ago, and there are kindergarten kids who couldn't come here and go to five places in the city, I think it's very important, and I'm going to do everything I can to help solve this city's problem, and I'm going to help the city get the extra resources, even if more than 200 percent increase is very rare in these investments. However, I think that government assistance is essential for the development of kindergarten and for the completion of the investment in kindergarten. In this case, I'm going to be a partner for the islanders, parents and the mayor. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2021-12-06-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! From the Fidesz Group, Mr Zsolt Becsó has applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-12-06-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, East Nógrád and the city of Salgótarján can also be the winner of the coming years, if we make good stewardship with the looted resources, if we believe in success, and if we are able to place our region on the mental map of investors, tourists and decision makers. What's this about? In the new development period until 2027 the government will provide HUF 1700 billion for the implementation of the urban vision. The TOP Plus will be a source for the development of the local economy, such as the development of industrial parks, the creation of incubators or the development of local market and local catering. In the area of urban development there will be a source of precipitation water drainage, green surface reconstruction, bicycle road construction, renovation of inland roads or local community development, but there will also be ways to implement health, social, public education, nursery and kindergarten developments, as well as energy efficiency, tourist attraction development and other community development projects. And, of course, it will also be possible to renew the four- and five-digit roads, the county employment pact and the implementation of the Salgótarján vision within the framework of sustainable urban development. It is a great achievement that, during the 2021-2027 development period, the county of Nógrád receives an indicative source of HUF 65 billion of HUF 230 million, which is the highest in particular among the counties. In particular, Salgótarján receives a sustainable urban development framework of HUF 11 billion and HUF 156 million, which together with the resources of the Pact represents a nearly 30 percent increase compared to the 2014-2020 funds. It is only quietly noted that many pro-government settlements would also welcome the government to punish them as it punishes opposition-led Salgótarján. For the sake of the facts, it is worth telling you again that from 2014 the county seat in Nógrád received HUF 9.2 billion of TOP funding, HUF 1.5 billion of free-use support, HUF 1 billion of operating aid, HUF 1 billion to prepare the programmes of the Modern Cities, a four-tracked 21st route, 4 billion HUF 474 million for the church package, HUF 600 million for the renovation of the main parish, the establishment of the oncology centre is close to HUF 20 billion, and the planning of the tourist pleasure park has also started. In addition, Salgglas, Mitsuba, Wamsler, Bumchun, Micropakk, or Eglo, SungEel or Alukov were given priority government support. And if we add to this all the resources, such as the support of the Zenthe Ferenc Theatre, the sources of the civilian world, government and other investment grants, the development of hospitals, EU aids outside the government and the TOP that have arrived in our region, we can safely say that we have received significant support, but there would be plenty of room for greater support. We must believe in ourselves and believe in success, that together we will be able to build a more livelier, more homelier, more exciting East-Nógrád. In the period up to 2030, we can open a new chapter in our lives. The time has come for industrially underdeveloped areas, including East Nógrád, to be at the heart of investors' interest, and for companies already operating here to look even more optimisticly into the future. [[15.40]] The time has come to make our great natural features, our existing geological, historical, folk and literary historical values more known, thus making our region more touristically fragmented. The time has come for our settlements to become more at home, while the identity of the people living here is being strengthened, and the time has come for the creation of a green Nógrád in the government's cohesion policy to become a reality. Turning back would be a mistake, going up into a state of total weightlessness, and going down into the depths we've never seen, so just go ahead, East Nógrád! The years to come will give rise to the possibility of realization of the dreams set in place. That's why we're going to work in the future. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-06-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member László Hajdu of the DK Group has applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-12-06-201	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear House, The year is coming to an end, and at the end of the year people, families, institutions, government, and that balance are very, very different. Here in the comments after the previous agenda, my fellow Members were able to report many, many billions to the pro-government people. Since I can't give you a penny of support this year, I was thinking of something quite different here, which I'm going to talk about after the agenda. This is the balance that we see at the end of this year, in health and epidemiological problems, we see in housing problems, in my constituency of unemployment, there is significant unemployment, the district hasn't been able to receive public work for years, it can't win such a tender, and poverty, one can make a quick balance of these. Which is why I really asked for a word on how Members of Parliament, colleagues, volunteers can help on the ground, because there's nothing else we can really count on. Christian people and unbelievers are also preparing for a great celebration, for Christmas, for the celebration and holiday of the Lord Jesus Christ in human form. At this intimate time, people tend to give, it's easier to inspire love from others, and it's easier to get them to help others, and it takes a little encouragement. This little encouragement the Democratic Coalition has been trying to solve in our district for years by publicly collecting donations for a pre-promoted purpose, and we encourage people, who can only symbolically bring anything, to accept it figuratively, with the same joy as if they thought that someone of greater value... We were thinking primarily of dry food, household cleaners, things that are not spoilt and that households can welcome. This collection is also a struggle to alleviate poverty locally, and it is also an expression of help, and I think that the joy of giving is causing a lot of people, and we think it is a humane feeling for our fellow humans that they are not alone. This is also a struggle against those who get such yellings, who are hypocrites, who are arrogant, who are trying, in a Pharisee way, to make comments that, I think, are unworthy of both the holiday and the situation known. But we're human, along with our own mistakes. We're on the street, we're doing these reception classes, it's literally a reception clock, it's on the street, when we can talk to people, and Covid wouldn't really let us do it in a room anyway. Balázs Barkóczi, who is the candidate for cooperation in my constituency, because I am retiring, there we listen to people and problems. Of course, many people think that the donations we receive will soon be distributed there, and sometimes someone who hasn't eaten for a day or two wishes to give this or that. They are also in this situation in our constituency, taking into account the fact that there are billions in other parts of the country, there are different big things that can be handed over, and they are all in this country. We try to bridge them with tact and sensitivity, and we hope that the fewer people who spend Christmas alone, the more families have the opportunity to give it to others, unless in spiritual joys, and I hope that this festival of year-end love will be a celebration of love for all families. Thank you for listening. [[Zoltán Varga applauds.]]
u2021-12-06-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Member Zoltán Varga of the DK Group has also applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-12-06-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The title of my speech is also a peculiar situation, and I would obviously like to speak again about my beloved city, Debrecen, and Debrecen is not in an easy situation. Of course, if we were to ask the Fidesz mayor in charge of the city or the city's Fidesz MPs who are baking their own fries, then they would probably have a different opinion. Orbán's governors in Debrecen can do nothing but roll the lying Fidesz communication rectifier, try to prove with a hopelessly honest face that Debrecen, unlike the opposition-led cities, has a balanced and sustainable budget and a soaring economy. I'm telling you, hopelessly, otherwise, because they're actually aware that it's becoming more and more difficult to hide. While the Orbán family, the dear papa, with the family silver, they believe that Rachel and her dear husband, István Tiborcz, the heroic homemaker, Mészáros, fled to the West, on the contrary, swimming in the billions of public money, Debrecen and, of course, all the opposite celebrities struggle with bloody sweat to keep the budget for this year by the end of the year. As I said earlier, while the propaganda machine of the ruling party is raging in Debrecen, and we can read daily in the few thousand-numbered and butcher's back pockets that there are new ribbon cuts, yet again, there are new economic successes, while the sad reality is that in the city of Debrecen it is true that if we go a little further away from the main square, then everything is not so bright. The thing is, the traffic jams in the city have also stabilized, and let me have a very today's experience: I took about three and a half miles this morning to get to the front of the highway to get out of Debrecen. I must add that on the motorway built by the Gyurcsány government, the 220 kilometers could be taken in a short two hours. The problem is not only with traffic jams, but, in fact, besides the introduction roads, the quality of downtown streets does not give the feeling of a large European city, but rather the number of potholes typical of the roads, although winter has not actually started yet. As I said before, there is no doubt that the motorway built during the Gyurcsány government really attracts many investors, but the economic strength of companies established in industrial parks can only be a small beauty flora to the increasingly visible government-induced wounds of the city. Yes, the numbers of the budget for 2021, as I indicated at the budget debate a year ago in the general assembly in Debrecen, are more of a category of mathematical magic. It's nothing but a sham, a sham budget. All these findings are current and new proposals for amending the budget, which the general meeting in Debrecen has been discussing for just two weeks, and I must add that this budget has confirmed that the revenues of the planned real estate sales are not even close to the planned one, so that the unscrupulous gaps in the budget are tried by the Fidesz management of the city by scheduling investments in 2022. [[15.50]] Even the mayor declared that this was the only way to achieve the horror of the new borrowing above the city as the sword of Damocles. Of course, the mayor denies everything. He thinks everything's okay. He says they didn't fall off the bike, that's just how they get off the bike. There's nothing to see here, you know, after another Rodolfo hocus pocus, just watch my hands, because I'm cheating, I'm gonna make it through 2021. Even though the complaints of the institutions of the city reach the sky, they ask for hopelessly money, not only can they improve, but they can't even survive; and it shows the weight of the problem that the subsidies proposed by civil society associations at the beginning of the year are not paid today, but also on 6th of November. Well, that's where we are now. Debrecen is not in an easy position, while the fidesz surface and the glaze of propaganda glistening, deep behind the scenes creaking everything. A collapse, a failure will be the end of it all. Thank you for listening.
u2021-12-06-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Ádám Steinmetz applied for a speech from the Jobbik Group after the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-12-06-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, A few weeks ago, I quoted Prime Minister Viktor Orbán here, among the walls of Parliament, who said that he could not make this compulsory, as he mentioned, in connection with the compulsory vaccination against the coronal virus, because he did not take it into his stomach. Well, on the other hand, the Government of Viktor Orbán has made government decrees that allow employers to be given unpaid leave from 15 December if they do not take this vaccination, this is not an option at government offices, but an obligation, and this means that, after millions of people are not vaccinated in Hungary today, many people may lose their jobs and livelihoods in a few days' time. When I said this on the social media site, many people saw this comment, and as a Member of Parliament, it is my right and duty to channel the views of these people into the ears of decision-makers. Therefore, allow me to quote some of them. Eszter asks: if the employer requires it, will the Hungarians take the vaccine on their stomach? No, it was the only way to pass on the responsibility. Daniel says that I do not understand what they are talking about, that vaccination is not mandatory. Henriett asks: What world is it when you have to fear your chosen government? What will be the next illogical, completely contradictory decision of self and common sense against us? Zoltán says it's optional, but you can't work without it, you can't have health care and everything. They might as well have made it mandatory. According to Elizabeth, enough with the restrictions and the sharing of society! Marika asks: but who is sent on unpaid leave, how does he make a living? The family that has one or two children, so they starve to death? According to Beáta, we can't live in fear because we're not vaccinated. We'd be working on what they're trying to make impossible. This puts the lives of our family and our children at risk. My health is my responsibility, not politics. Rose calls attention to the fact that everyone decides for themselves what they want, not to force anyone to take the vaccine. Mary says: Yes, every person is primarily responsible for his own life, but therefore, no one should be sent from anywhere, from any workplace. Agnes says my stomach doesn't buy a lot of lies. I just need a vaccine to put you inoculate against the lie, and everything would go smoothly. Fruska asks: what about employers? Are they gonna be sent to work without pay? According to Mary, each person is primarily responsible for his own life, deciding that he would like to take on an experimental vaccination for which no one is responsible. If so, pick up if not, because, for example, you are allergic to many things, or you do not trust them, so don't take them away from anyone, from any workplace. Veronika believes that I have great confidence in responsible decisions and that they will withdraw this idiotic provision. We've been living in fear and uncertainty for weeks, worried people can never do high-quality work. Why don't we uninoculated have a choice? And I would like to end with the words of Gyöngyi, which I fully agree with, and I quote: I hope you will listen, understand what you have said, and withdraw this unthinkable, inhumane and unjust measure that has made the lives of many impossible. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. As Christmas approaches, one more quote from Prime Minister Viktor Orbán: the best gift we can now give our loved ones is to get inoculated. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the greatest gift for millions of Hungarian people, Hungarian workers, would be to withdraw these government regulations, repeal them, and let people live, work, and, above all, hear their voices. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-12-06-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Tamás Herczeg has applied for a post- Agenda speech from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-12-06-207	Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In the beginning of November, too, after the agenda, I talked about the development of the city of Békéscsaba in the framework of the programme "Modern Cities" (Modern Cities). I would like to continue this now; and even if it is not about the availability and accessibility of the city, but it is about road construction and road development that I would like to continue with what was said a few weeks ago. This is about the fact that from the beginning of this year until the end of next year, due to a recent decision, you can spend more than HUF 7 billion on building the city's roads, tarmacing the road and improving the existing low-quality roads. A relatively high percentage of the road network, which has not yet had a solid housing in Békéscsaba, can now be reduced to less than 10 per cent within the framework of this development, and will fall to less than 10 per cent. It doesn't belong to the "Modern Cities" program, but it is important to mention that our daily life is greatly influenced by the fact that the city received more than HUF 2 billion, HUF 2 billion 300 million to partly improve its sidewalks and partly to build new sidewalks. Speaking of roads and sidewalks, it is advisable to continue with cycling paths. Partly to reach industrial parks and partly to develop the Wenckheim Bicycle Road is the next large-scale development package I would like to talk about. This is about the fact that the Wenckheim bicycle road network enriches Békéscsaba with about 20 kilometres of new or renewed bicycle trails. The other programme, which serves the accessibility of industrial parks, serves primarily to help the residents of Békéscsaba in their daily work, especially those who travel by bicycle. By the way, about 30 percent of the population in Békéscsaba ride a bicycle. And we can also add that the county has 10 percent of the country's bicycle road network, and Andrássy of Pécsaba is on the road to the country's main cycling street. So this means that it is especially worthwhile for us to deal with the bicycle path network, because a lot of people ride their bikes in Békéscsaba. I would like to continue with another element of the programme of modern cities, which concerns education. Unfortunately, the physical implementation of the former Gál Ferenc College has not yet started, and since the signing of the contract for the infrastructure development of the Gál Ferenc University, there have been positive changes since then. [[16.00]] Among other things, the Gál Ferenc College has become the University of Gál Ferenc and has concluded a cooperation agreement with the University of Szeged. As a result, long-awaited IT training and engineering training have finally started in Békéscsaba. And while we are talking about education, it is perhaps appropriate to mention that the Békéscsaba Vocational Training Centre, which is also involved in the development of the. Modern Cities programme, since we have established and passed a printing knowledge and training centre recently; so that the Békéscsaba Vocational Training Center can actually provide a straight line of training, education and employment careers for students who come to this school. This means that partly because of cooperation with market participants, partly because of cooperation with the University of Szeged and the University of Gál Ferenc, 15-year-old students who come to the vocational training centre can see the career arch that can be expected in the coming years, in better case in the longer term. I was talking about the Wenckheim Cycling Road as an investment of tourist importance. The construction of Munkácsy-brand is equally important for us. The Munkácsy Quarter is in progress with a lot of elements. These are also expected to be completed in the near future. Just as my speech after my agenda must end, so this programme will soon be completed. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Dr. Adam Steinmetz applauds.]]
u2021-12-06-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 13 December. Now I thank you for your cooperation, for your day-to-day work. The meeting's closed. I wish you all a happy home, a good night and a good night.
