u2021-04-26-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 12th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Dear House, Again, I have to fulfil my sad duty to announce that three of our former fellow Members have passed away in the past. At the first free parliamentary elections Zoltán Hajdú acquired the mandate of the 6th constituency of Fejér county and was a member of the Hungarian Parliament until 1998. During his term of office, he participated in the work of the Committee on Human Rights, Minorities and Religion and the Committee on the Preparation of the Budget Support of Social Organisations. Besides his political career, he served as a Reformed pastor, founder of the Christian Youth Association and the Enying-based Tinódi Lantos Sebestyén Reformed Music School. He passed away in the 78th year of his life. András Serfő was a representative of the Hungarian Parliament for three cycles between 1994 and 2006. As a candidate for the MSZP in 1994, he obtained his mandate in the 3rd constituency of Nógrád county, including Szécsény and its region, and then from the regional list of the county. During his term of office he participated in the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Police. It is intended to serve the development of its narrower country, Nógrád county. He died in the 71st year of his life. Péter Lusztig obtained his mandate in the 1st single mandate district of Baranya County in the colour of the MSZP in the 1994 parliamentary elections. Under his mandate, he worked in the Committee on Local Government and Police and the Constitutional Affairs. He was a member of the Hungarian Association of Lawyers and the Hungarian Society of Criminology. He died when he was 75. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our fellow Members with a silent standing. [[The people in this room stand up and pay tribute to the dead.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea, the leader of the Dialogue Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor.
u2021-04-26-1	Ladies and gentlemen, So far, more than 26,000 people have died in Hungary in a coronal virus. Children remain orphans, parents bury their children. Turns out most of the people in the world have already died in Hungary as a proportion of the population. By comparison, 10,000 people died in Austria, 7 000 died in Croatia and only 900 died in Australia. But how is it possible that in all the neighbouring countries, Romania, Poland, and even Bulgaria, there are fewer losses? The answer is very simple: in these countries, governments did not deal with the theft of billions, not with incitement to the opposition, but together, they fought the epidemic. In our case, Viktor Orbán was occupied by stealing and lying during the epidemic. He was so busy stealing that he didn't even bother to offer his condolences to the families of the deceased at least once. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Yes, you can.]] Viktor Orbán never once left his mouth after the loss of a small town of people, the sentence that the victims should rest in peace is that we apologize to those we failed, even though I, Viktor Orbán, promised last fall that those who got sick will be cured. No. In fact, István Hollik, the communications director of Fidesz, managed to post a post after the 25,000 victims that we thank and continue the work. You have no idea what's going on in this country, so insensitive to people's pain. On the day that this happens, Viktor Orbán, laughing, says that he can't wait to finally have a beer on a terrace. In addition, he said all this as if he ever went out for a beer with people, even though we know that he only drinks beer on the terrace of the Carmelite. Viktor Orbán has never been among the people and will never walk among them. After all, if he had walked, he would have heard the desperate cries of doctors and nurses when they saw the crowds without masks on the terraces this weekend. The doctors groaned that, oh, my God, in three weeks, everything will begin again in intensive care. At last, the medical staff got some air, but this morning Viktor Orbán told you not to slack off in the hospitals, because soon after the first vaccination, everyone can practically wander anywhere he wants without a mask, prepare for the worst in the hospitals. But this was not the only gift given to health workers by Viktor Orbán, the Prime Minister now wants to listen to their phones and look at their e-mails. A few days ago, it turned out that the government wanted to conduct a confidence check on the doctors, which, of course, they had to volunteer, or they'd be fired immediately. After the incident became a scandal, it was reported that an administrative error occurred, and the Hospital Directorate General sent this letter to all hospitals by mistake. An administrative error, of course, and an administrative error was obviously also the fact that someone wrote this letter, since they didn't just send this letter to all the hospitals, but they had to write it before. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that you think Hungarian people are completely stupid. We know that we still have the legal authority to wiretap doctors, nurses, but we're just on ice right now, but we're not gonna let that happen, the doctors, nurses are not slaves, we're not soldiers. [[13.10]] Then let's continue to see what they've been trying to do this past week to cover up their own irresponsible decisions and thefts. Well, they forged a vaccine-efficiency study. Last week, I asked Gergely Gulyás to disclose how he knew Western vaccines were not as effective as Eastern vaccines. But by that, I didn't mean that the government would falsify these vaccine data. Well, Katalin Kariko himself told me yesterday that the government is lying in this report! I can't wait to see when you're going to report Dr. Kariko by making false news. The thing is, honourable members of the government, you're going to be exposed to your lies over and over again. They know that the end will come for you, i.e. the change of government, which is why they panic, and even in the last moments, they steal public wealth. Well, panic, that's what we say in the Dialogue; panic, because you are really living your last days in the government. Prepare to change. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-26-2	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2021-04-26-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Once again, we see in action the strategy outlined by a left-wing strategist not so long ago; he spoke quite openly about the fact that the left should campaign towards the relatives of the victims. He also did a completely soulless calculation, calculated that this was a target group of 200,000 people. [[Gergely Harvester: Your man, my friend! It's on your TV!]] And another shocking thing was this left-wing strategist, that the left is not yet able to make good use of the pain of grief. That's what he said. Now, you've not only taken this advice, you've been leading this campaign in Parliament for months. All of his speeches, all of his actions, aim to make use of the grief of the left, in the words of the strategist. [[Szabó Timea: Who is this?]] It's unworthy, insensitive and heartless. You could at least be a little small of the humanity that's being called to account for. When we can defeat the plague, the number of vaccinations will determine. This is why it is an important weapon that the Hungarian vaccination program is progressing on a regular basis, the graft rate is 37 percent, while the EU average is much lower, 21 percent. I would particularly like to point out that the elderly most exposed to the infection, of which the registered, 91 percent of them have already been vaccinated. As regards the issue of statistics. I see you're starting another fake news campaign on statistics, which is part of your anti-vaccination campaign. I think it's natural for professionals to interpret statistics and argue about them, but this doesn't change the fact that the published data is facts; it's not speculations, it's not predictions, it's not analysis, it's not opinions, it's facts. And the table you refer to proves that all vaccines used in Hungary are effective [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] And any vaccine is better than catching the virus without immunity. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's what the opposition thinks, don't lie.]] I am therefore asking you not to pursue an anti-vaccination campaign in the field of statistics. As more and more people were granted immunity, steps could be taken to restart life. Now, if I'm reading this correctly, you're not in favour of rebooting. So they demanded an opening when the third wave was at the top of the line, and they wanted to close when we were approaching the 4 million vaccinees. I ask that, if so, you make a concrete proposal. The rebooting steps were made possible by the schedule of vaccination, the vaccination program that you have been constantly attacking. If you really wanted to protect people's lives, you wouldn't be attacking the vaccination program. [[Szabó Timea: Give your condolences!]] They attacked the licensing process of professionals, attacked registration, so much so that they wanted to erase it a few days ago. [[Szabó Timea: Yes!]] There was an unsettling campaign against some types of vaccine, but they had to inoculate themselves. You already have your shot. [[Szabó Timea: For you too!]] But he would've talked other people out of it. [[Intercoms from the lines of Dialogue and MSZP. Gergely Harvesto: That's not true, you're lying!]] The difference between us, honourable Member, is that the people sitting here never talked the Hungarians out of vaccinations. [[Gergely Harvesto: Neither are the people sitting here!]] while you guys did it. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Nobody talked the Hungarians down!]] And the reason they were vaccinated in some cases is because they know very well that every vaccine approved in Hungary is effective. The minework of left-wing parties is very well symbolized by the parliamentary resolution which they are jointly recording. That parliamentary decision would have practically banned certain types of vaccines. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true, you're lying! Dr. Bence Rétvári: It literally has this in it!]]
u2021-04-26-4	Shame on you, Congressman.
u2021-04-26-5	This resolution is a quarterly one, since then it has been on the Parliament's agenda, and it has not been withdrawn. So you guys have an anti-inoculation certificate. On this proposal for a resolution, honourable Member, your name is also there, and you have signed it. If you have a minimal amount of willingness [[Szabó Timea: Nobody believes you!]] To admit that you were pursuing an irresponsible policy if you had a little responsibility left, and you had a little compassion left in you. [[Szabó Timea: Condolence! Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] Then you'll withdraw your signature. If you really care about protecting people's lives, if you really cared about Hungarian businesses, you would withdraw this proposal for a resolution. [[Szabó Timea: Then give them support!]] They can do it now. If they do not, it is only proof that the strength and temperature of the left-wing vaccination is nothing, but nothing has changed. Take your responsibility. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-6	My fellow Members, let me say that I will be moved to tears when Gergely Arató can sit for the first time in silence for ten minutes and listen to others speak. Oh, God, I'm telling you. On behalf of Congressman Antal Csárdi, on behalf of the LMP, the next speaker. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Last Friday in Brussels, Viktor Orbán discussed how the EU's recovery fund was spent in Hungary and how it was planned. That's a lot of money, 5800 billion forints, which comes in plus compared to what we've got so far. According to the preliminary negotiations, the government would also rightly spend on health improvements from this source. I would note here that the Orbán government finally reached the stage in the 11th year of the system of national cooperation, so that it does not treat health as step-ups and provide real resources to the sector. It is very sad that it took a pandemic; it is very sad that Fidesz is always so proud of his freedom fights, of course, because Brussels is not our ally that can solve this with only EU money. [[13.20]] But it is worth seeing what the government is planning, what the EU's recommendations are, and how they relate to each other. The Commission clearly does not like the fact that the government would finance from this fund the conversion of university models, which is theft of public assets. The issue is that state-owned higher education institutions, together with their entire assets, would be organised into private foundations. It is a lie from the government that, in order to renew higher education, this transformation would be necessary, that private foundations would be needed. The best and most prestigious universities in Europe are typically state-owned institutions. Nor is it true that universities voluntarily took this path, as they were blackmailed by access to their development resources. Emphasising the change of model is a government lie. What's happening is the massive wealth of state-owned universities, the private administration of a large proportion of national wealth. Fidesz organises public wealth in private foundations because I fear that it is right to lose elections in 22 and lose power and see the change of model as a perfect tool to continue the practice of public money in private assets. Technically, we see that from this source, let us say, questionable decisions are expected. Because what is the recommendation that the European Commission has formulated? He put a proposal for strengthening and extending reduced working time employment on the table, which we know is precisely the tightest government in Hungary in this regard, as 3 percent of workers in Hungary have obtained this type of support. Just to make it a basis for comparison: in Croatia, this ratio reaches 50 percent. But I think it is also worth noting that it is clearly stated in the Commission's recommendation that increasing the length and extent of the unemployment benefit is necessary for the social goal of allowing workers who want to get back to work and have failed to get a job in three months without having an existential crisis with their families. I think it is also worth discussing the digitalisation of schools. This is also reflected in the recommendations, but we do not see that this is reflected in the government's plans to the extent necessary. We know exactly that we are talking about HUF 5800 billion compared to the source, and it would take only HUF 50-70 billion, for example, to supply digital tools to primary and secondary school students. And then every student could get a tablet, for example. We do not see the objective, the support system that would ensure the infrastructure network of schools, which would allow digital education to be much more effective. Overall, I think that we have very serious concerns about the extent to which this HUF 5800 billion will be spent and how effective it will be. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-26-8	On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds. I give you the floor.
u2021-04-26-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the next financial framework for the EU cycle 2021-27 and the financial framework for the so-called future generations provide significant resources for Hungary. From the MFF, this shortened budget for the next period is almost HUF 11 000 billion, and from the next generation, over HUF 7,000 billion has already been decided under the EU's specific restoration fund for the Crown Virus. Unfortunately, this does not mean that the spending of these resources has already begun. We're trying to speed things up. According to the current timetable, the final date for the submission of the plan documents by 30 April was set by the European Commission on the basis of which the programmes will be able to start. I would like to inform the Member that we are also at the forefront of European comparison. It is happening at the moment, and the social consultation of the plans has continued in recent months. There was also a consultation on this within the walls of the Hungarian Parliament. Of course, this also means a debate on the basis of party policy, but I think we can now conclude that all subsequent practices will allow for better use of resources compared to the practice of using EU funds by governments before 2010. Fortunately, in this context, we also have political statements and economic data. German Chancellor Angela Merkel himself said that Hungary is making good use of EU funds, that convergence will be achieved, and that Moody's latest report confirmed that EU funds contributed more to Hungarian economic growth and GDP growth than other countries. So this is also a kind of positive feedback on resource use. He mentioned the renewal of universities. I must admit, I do not really understand how responsible as a politician, and also as a opposition politician who often speaks out for the importance of universities and education, how to criticise the plan in which unprecedented resources go to higher education in Hungary. Let us, however, record and repeat that, both in terms of EU funds and in terms of Hungarian budgetary resources, there has not been a flow of resources in such quantities since the change in the system, and these resources have been aimed at infrastructure and professional renewal of higher education. That's never happened before. Moreover, in view of the practices of the Restoration Fund in other countries, we do not see an area where education would have so much resources and governments would try to finance so much health development. We think that investment in education and health will pay off. One more thing, if I may, is that you claim to be a green politician, and, by the way, you often speak on municipal issues. What I do not understand then is that I have the priority axes in front of me, which indicate what Hungary would like to spend, besides education and health care, and I see two areas here. One is the catching up settlements and regions. I think that if you are really dealing with municipal matters, then this is an area of catching up with local authorities, which is crucial in the coming years. Or as a green politician, I would recommend four priority axes out of the nine axes; four out of nine. One is water management, the other is sustainable green transport, the third is energy, the fourth is green transition, and the fourth is the development of a circular economy in Hungary. This programme is like this document, honourable Member, as if it were written by you. Then one thing I don't understand is why you're attacking him and why you don't support the government's ideas about this. I think that there is only one sound response to this, that you are not interested in getting these funds to Hungary as soon as possible, you can use them as soon as possible, and that local governments, green organisations, universities and health workers are able to use these resources in such a difficult situation, but in this context you want to initiate political purport, political debate and political hysteria, obviously in order to prolong the use of resources. We don't think this is a good policy, so get off this road. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-10	Mr Gergely Arató, representative of DK, also came forward before the agenda. Now it's up to you for five minutes.
u2021-04-26-11	Thank you very much. Dear House, Our fellow Members, Fidesz, do not disturb Parliament so much that they did not come in. But even though they stick their heads in the sand, even though they don't want to hear the truth, the truth is that today the number of people who died in Hungary because of a coronal virus epidemic is well over 26,000. [[13.30]] The truth is that Hungary lost most people in proportion to the population because of the epidemic. The truth is that Hungary has been leading mortality statistics among 192 countries around the world for six weeks. And not only is the country suffering because hundreds of thousands of people have lost their jobs, because tens of thousands of companies are being destroyed, because the food is getting more expensive for pensioners, people living in a difficult line, and the cost of living is getting more and more expensive. But if someone looked at what Fidesz wanted to push through Parliament these weeks, they'd think it was a completely different country. After all, at this meeting, the government did not report on the epidemiological situation and the measures taken, while it is bound by law, as it has not reported in recent months. In fact, Parliament's meetings have been thinned out in order to answer the opposition's questions as little as possible. And what is important to you at the peak of the epidemic? Well, losing the nature of public money in a less poetic way: stealing public wealth. Fidesz is like the meanest thief who steals his fortune from his dying bed. The country is fighting for its life, literally and economically, but you are filling your own pockets, your relatives, your friends and your business partners. When you post a billboard to restart the economy, you're thinking of restarting your own enrichment. Let's look at your seven sins. It's all a matter that's in front of Parliament. First of all, a lot of the higher education is being played out for buddies, precisely because of what the Secretary of State has just said, because there will be significant EU funding, and in this way they know it, by the way, to shovel it out of higher education without public procurement, under the leadership of the commissars you have appointed. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Come on.]] And not only the universities are being stolen as they are, but they are stealing a lot of other things, creating little beliefs: there goes the remainder of the State Economy of Mezőhegyes, going to Zichy Castle, going to one of the good Fidesz comrades on the island of Shipyard, and now here, as I see the current agenda, and then the House of Terror goes to it. A supervisory authority for the so-called Regulatory Activities has been established. Do you know what that means? This means that one of the most important powers of the state, that it can regulate certain activities, such as gambling or tobacco sales, is also given to some of their buddies, and that they are well around this whole system to make it uncontrollable. In fact, they now go so far as to advertise the privatisation of state property as a direct purpose in a salad law, to create another fidesz party organization: a private company with residual exploitation. It's beautiful. You know what this organization's gonna do? He's gonna distribute the state fortune, steal it, and give it to your buddy. A amending budget has been tabled, where, without any specific details, they ask that the budget deficit increase to 7.5%, that hundreds of billions of forints remain to be allocated to Lőrinc Me-száross and their other business partners, or that a world hunting exhibition be held during the epidemic. And if that wasn't enough, a telephone campaign was launched where voters were harassed and lied to them that the opposition was against vaccination, because that's what they were smart about during the epidemic; there is no defense or health care. And they have the nerve to ask for an extension of the emergency so that they can continue this activity without delay. This is the organized, unscrupulous and unscrupulous theft of the property of the Hungarian people, the property of the Hungarian state. This won't go without consequences, so you'll have to answer for it. We'll take back everything that belongs to the state, take back everything that's been stolen, and the guilty will be punished. And don't tell me this has nothing to do with the plague. Think of the number of lives that could have been saved [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]] With the money that's been stolen over the last few years, they could have spent it on health care instead!
u2021-04-26-12	Thank you, Congressman, your five minutes are up. Please take your seat and concentrate very much on listening to the answer given by Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör.
u2021-04-26-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, However, we find it difficult to accept lectures on the matter of theft from those who have actually played the Hungarian state's wealth, whose party president played an extremely dubious role in privatisations. On the other hand, under the current government, state wealth is growing in the order of thousands of billions. If what you say is true in economic matters, otherwise, we would not be able to say that, in terms of economic performance, Hungary has a lower decline due to the epidemic than in the European Union, we would not be able to say that, despite the epidemic, industrial production has increased by 4 percent. In contrast to your claim, the government's primary objective was to protect jobs, and the country can deliver significant results in this. If we look at the ranking of EU countries, we have the fifth lowest unemployment rate, and we have this ratio of 4.5 per cent, and the EU average of 7.5 per cent is a big difference. Investments also play a major role in the exit from the epidemic, which is why it is important that we are third in the EU ranking at a rate of 28% compared to GDP. These facts, which fundamentally contradict what you are talking about, and these results did not fall on the country's lap on their own, needed the joint effort of millions of people, a well-developed vaccination program that will allow for reopening, restarting, and targeted government subsidies such as the credit moratorium, wage support, the extended home creation programme, or even the tax exemption for young people, which will soon come into effect. We know that the left did not think of such measures when the crisis had to be dealt with, but it was the result. As far as the second main issue is concerned, the health aspects, there is an extraordinary cynicism and hypocrisy in that the left is asking the relevant experts in the epidemiological defenses to be able to add nothing else to the joint work for a long year, but to cease working mines and a large anti-vaccination program, a large anti-vaccination campaign. We're always surprised, but they can still add cynicism. Klára Dobrev, for example, goes to the ATV, and there he talks without blinking about the fact that the Democratic Coalition was behind the government all along. He even said that the Gyurcsány party did not criticize the measures that led to many debates. Let me ask you this: for example, this speech must be interpreted in this context as saying that this is a stand for the government or that nothing has ever been criticised. Make no mistake. I have no problem with a opposition party criticizing the government. That's what he does. There's just some boundaries that shouldn't be crossed. During the epidemic, you have seen the essence of your policy in that what the government has decided, the CDC experts have decided to demand the opposite: if it was a ventilator, then they didn't say it was unnecessary, they were worried about the beds, but when it came to bed reliefs, thousands of deaths were watered, even fake paramedics were deployed. Whatever our defenses were, you guys were always talking about being the worst in the world. That's what they're saying right now. It's not our performance they're denying, it's the front line fighters. When the test became official, it was claimed that the test was completely free everywhere else, which is not true. And then we arrived at their darkest campaign, the anti-vaccination campaign: they attacked the authorisation procedure, they petitioned against vaccines, they demanded a ban in their official resolution, they presented a parliamentary resolution, they would have abolished registration, and they boycotted the vaccination program locally. There were dozens of ways to get the vaccination program to stop. It's a good thing the Hungarians didn't trust and I don't think they'll trust their health and safety to a man who's already attacked his own countrymen once. The fact that, after such a history, they can claim with a serious face that they helped the government and did not even criticize, certainly proves one thing, not at first: that they do not know any moral boundaries. If they knew that, I wouldn't keep stepping over it. A few years ago, we learned that there is no such emergency, there is no such struggle, and there is no time of crisis when the left cannot attack its own people, then with rubber bullets, and now with an anti-vaccination campaign. Honourable Congressman, You and your party president can threaten here, but you can be sure of one thing: the Hungarians, as they have not forgotten. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] They won't forget their 2006 moves, the anti-vaccination campaign, you can be sure of that. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[13.40]]
u2021-04-26-14	Now it's time for the group leader of MSZP, Bertalan Tóth. I give you the floor.
u2021-04-26-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The terraces opened this weekend, and we learned that Viktor Orbán and Antal Rogán Minister of Propaganda had a good beer in the Castle. There's a question. I understand to a great extent the relief of the waiters and hosts, who have been abandoned by the government over the last few months: he measured their support narrowly, but now, after a long time, they could finally open up and make money. I understand the good cheer of all those who, after a long time, could finally sit on a terrace and talk to their friends and acquaintances as if everything had returned to normal. We are very confident that the many, many concerns expressed by doctors and virologists about opening will not come true, because, as a virus researcher in Pécs said, opening is responsible for those who have not been vaccinated or passed through the disease. But back to the good cheer: I do not understand why the Prime Minister and the Minister of Propaganda are cheerful. This weekend, on both days, more than 200 of our countrymen lost their lives because of the coronal virus epidemic. In comparison, 15 people died in Austria with a similar population in one day, not 200. Why the hell is this fun when almost 27 thousand Hungarians have died so far, most of the population in proportion not only in Europe but in the world? ! The Prime Minister said: "The success of defense is measured in human lives. That's your success? Are you happy that tens of thousands of families are grieving? It's pretty amazing. Ladies and gentlemen, I bow my head to the memory of the victims, express my condolences to the grieving family members, and thank the doctors and nurses who are fighting a heroic battle in health care. I propose the same to my fellow pro-government Members; if you have already ruined the defence, you can do at least that. Ladies and gentlemen, The terraces opened this weekend, but with all due respect, when do the clinics open, when do they want to open the surgical departments of hospitals, when do they want to open the oncological screening sites? You're running inhumane, insensitive government full of bad decisions. They refused to test it, even though it would have been possible to control the spread of the epidemic, because we could have known who was sick and who wasn't. They didn't give me 100 percent of the sick, so they forced people, people who were afraid of paying, to go to work sick, infecting others. Three quarters of the Economic Protection Fund have been wasted on hunting exhibitions, space exploration, the renovation of the Buda Castle, and countless other things that have nothing to do with crisis management. They shamelessly gave little wage support, and half of the 300,000 unemployed do not receive any benefits. They didn't help the families either, the family allowance has been unchanged for 13 years. What do we see now? On Friday, in Brussels, Viktor Orbán lobbyed to ensure that the sources of reconstruction are not spent on Hungarian people, workers, families, and that the Fidesz regime, which is about to fail, robs the public property through private Fidesz foundations. Ladies and gentlemen, We are standing here against a shattered health care system and an education system sent to the floor, and the Prime Minister is negotiating how to steal the European Union's money. During 11 years of government, you've been saving up on health care and education. Massive hospitals, medical and nursing shortages, waiting lists of miles long, thousands of doctors and nurses driven away in the middle of the epidemic, that's what you're doing. I am sure it would not be so bad if Fidesz had not reduced spending on health, education and the social system over the last 11 years. Even after doctors raise their wages, we do not reach the EU average. Fewer victims, fewer students, would be better quality of life in Hungary today than the top 1 percent, but the 99 below. According to the MSZP, therefore, we need to change: a caring, chance-creating state as soon as possible, the better! For our future together, for Hungary.
u2021-04-26-16	I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2021-04-26-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Allow me to recall, in the course of these sentences, their own MEP, István Ujhelyi, who, not so long ago, ran a race with the Momentum at the end of January, who demanded the opening louder when the British viral mutant appeared in Hungary and was more dangerous than the first and second wave of the Crown Virus. Then your MEP, the Hungarian Socialist Party and one of the leading politicians on the left, said that the current government decision should be too strictly limited and open. He went on to say: "It was unthinkable to impose government restrictions in November last year, and the government should review its decree of 11 November. So when the British viral mutant appeared in Hungary, you would have demanded a general opening; not only on the terraces, but everywhere, you would have demanded a general opening, honourable Member. What would have happened if this had really happened in Hungary, and when the British virus mutant appeared, the opening started? This is a completely different situation, since millions of people have been vaccinated since then, and fortunately, the number of people in the hospital and the number of people on the ventilator have been declining for some time now. But what did you say in person, Mr. Group Leader? You said, "The Chinese vaccine is completely untested and unconfirmed by professionals. So what would you have done with this statement? What would all left-wing politicians have done when they signed a parliamentary resolution proposal that would have prevented Hungarians from being vaccinated with a Russian or Chinese vaccine? To this day, a million and a half of our countrymen would be vaccinated, and by the end of May, three and a half million of our countrymen would be vaccinated. What you said in five minutes, honourable Member, would have led us here: we would not be the second in the European Union, but half as many people would have protection in Hungary. You said you needed more doctors and more apo-horses. Honourable Congressman, At the beginning of your administration, in 2002, 37 295 working Hungarian doctors were 37 thousand! 33943 at the end of their administration. What have you been doing for two cycles? How many doctors have been expelled from hospitals and clinics, Your Honour? And in contrast to this 33,943, by 2019 there will be 41,000 doctors, honourable Member, even more than you started with. When you governed, you reduced the number of working doctors when we governed, we tried to increase this, for example, by raising wages. Why have you not done so, honourable Member, to double the wages of doctors? Fidesz-KDNP, despite the economic difficulties faced by all countries around the world, said that this is a goal worth taking on a surplus of up to a hundred billion or hundreds of billions. Thus, a doctor working 20 years ago, whose basic salary was HUF 50,000 last year, will now earn HUF 1 million 342,000 in the following year, and HUF 1 million 491,000 in the following year. Last year, the person who has worked for 40 years earned HUF 575 thousand, this year HUF 1 million 666 thousand for his basic salary, the on-call and other allowances are added, and he will earn more than HUF 2.3 million at the end of the salary increase programme in 2023, and nearly HUF 2.4 million. That is what we have done, honourable Member, in contrast to the fact that you have produced fake videos and released fake statistics to the public. All they do is attack the defense team. They said that people in need of hospital treatment were sent home, and nine out of ten people died because of it, and they have done nothing but attack the work of doctors and nurses, honourable Member. To this day, you have not withdrawn your parliamentary resolution proposals, because there are two. I was told to quote one of them literally, because I was yelled out that there was no such thing in it:.. Can't be vaccinated with a Chinese vaccine in Hungary that the European Medicines Agency didn't allow. On the other hand, it has been said that only vaccines which the European Medicines Agency considers to be of sufficient quality and effectiveness should be placed on the market. Honourable Congressman, Your faction and the left could do the most for the effectiveness of the defense if the false news and the untruths were stopped, and their proposal for a resolution would be withdrawn immediately, today. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.50]]
u2021-04-26-18	Now it's time for James Peter, on Jobbik's side. I give you the floor.
u2021-04-26-19	Thank you for the floor, fellow Members. Before I start, there's something that I can't walk past without saying a word. It's a matter of honor. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] You have a long-haired boy named Tamás Deutsch. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári:]] In life, if a few days...
u2021-04-26-20	Congressman! Take it easy. Don't insult people who are in the room, especially people who can't answer and ask for it. How do you come to classify anyone, a Member of the European Parliament, as such? ! [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oh, come on!]] Pull yourself together and start again, or I'll take the word away from you, and I'll warn you in advance. I'm sick of your rudeness... [[James Peter: The time is running!]] I'll give you back the floor, you can start over, because you didn't make the first start. Try it again. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] Here you go. Reset the clock, please. [[It's happening.]]
u2021-04-26-21	I'm glad you're done. So thank you very much for saying the word again. So this man in his life, if he worked a few days outside the walls of Parliament, I might say a lot. He's been around the nation for 30 years. [[Zoltán Balczó: Handsome young man!]] And yet this fidesz gentleman has now taken the liberty of basically depanel-prolying everyone in this country who doesn't live on big feet like you, but simply, in an ordinary way, like in a panel. What did you say, wait, what word did you use? It says, "Bloodbite." Yes, that's what the congressman said. You know, the thing is, a significant proportion of our voters live in a simple way, in an ordinary way, mostly from month to month, and not because they don't work decently, but because they work decently, as a simple worker, as a small businessman, as a teacher, as a nurse, as an auxiliary worker and so on, and of course they often live in a panel, because today in Hungary, it seems that this is the value of decent work. And yet, our voters are a hundred times, a thousand times better people than Tamás Deutsch; they are a thousand times better people than you, because they are decent and work, and they have not been ruling for thirty years, they have not eaten large spoons of life, of public money; they have not ruled in a castle; they are not flying with helicopters; they are not on a luxury yacht, as you are doing, with the money of those little people, I add, who are still working to make this country work at all. And then you guys have the nerve to lepers these people, to humiliate these people just because you work decently? [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: That's right! Dr. László György Lukács: Shame! Dr. Pál Völner intervenes.]] Learn some decency. Just because someone can't fly to Dubai as a teacher and a nurse for a luxury vacation, and they can't buy expensive sports cars and million-dollar watches? I want you to get to know the Hungarian reality, okay? ! See where you sent this country 11 years ago. I remember when you used to cheat the slave law here in Parliament, then Tamás Deutsch said that there was nothing wrong with this law, because the Hungarian people are happy to work overtime. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] A millionaire said that. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Who?]] who doesn't have any accomplishments in this life. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who? Who is it? Dr. János Fónagy: You have one!]] And the thing is, you're going to be plotting the hospital staff who are working overtime in this country today, imagine that the country can survive all of this. Respectfully, without the day off, they're in bad working conditions and they're being tested. They're plotting the teachers that you sent back to the cathedral without protection, in case they get infected. Those who have lost their jobs, their livelihoods, their businesses have also been promoted because you had 100 times more important things to do with saving Lőrinc Mé-száros and privatizing the existing state assets than, for example, giving back 80 percent wage support to troubled workers, workers, entrepreneurs. Instead of wage subsidies, they offer preferential loans to those in need. Well, Viktor Orbán's son-in-law used 3 billion forints, right, little Tiborczka, the billionaire in need. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] And then you're saying that Viktor Orbán's environment has been fairly rich, decent billionaires? How did Tamás Deutsch put it: it is impolite to interfere in the lifestyle of businessmen who support Fidesz, because he believes that we have nothing to do with this. But, my fellow Member, the thing is, we have a lot to do with it. We have a lot to do with it. Because these scoundrels are shaking the rag out of our voters' money; they're using our voters' money to travel to the Maldives; they're buying diamond rings and castles with our voters' money, and you're pissing off our voters like they're ashamed that this country got here. No, fellow Members, this is your shame. It's your shame! And I'm not the only one who's telling you this now, but basically your good friend, the President of the Central Bank, has admitted that you've practically lied for the last ten years. Has György Matolcsy himself admitted that Romania has been a more successful country than Hungary, you understand, Romania? ! In the meantime, you had all the tools in your hands to get this country moving up. And yet the standard of living has not increased, only corruption and your face, nothing. So why don't you back off a little bit, please, okay? ! Modesty, comrades, modesty! And Tamás Deutsch is finally trying to figure out what it's like to work outside the walls of Parliament, because at 55, you're still starting your career. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-04-26-22	Mr. Balázs Orbán has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, You raised the question of supporting those in need. Allow me to nuance with some data and even deny what you've been telling me for the past few minutes. The government's goal is to eradicate poverty in all cases. From poverty, in our view, work is the way out. More and more people live in Hungary instead of getting help from work. We believe that this is the right direction, as opposed to the left, which you are part of, and which is pursuing a policy contrary to that. Between 2006-2010, this is important because this is the time when those with whom you are now in a political alliance with the poorest in households have lost 40 percent of real income in Hungary; after 2010, the real value of net average earnings has increased by one and a half times. After 2010, we increased the minimum wage more than double; between 2010 and 19 the number of people with significant difficulties in an unexpected expenditure fell by 4 million. According to Eurostat data, the number of people at risk of poverty has decreased by 1 million 280 thousand since 2010 and there has been a halving of unemployment among Roma since 2010. Your proposal about gypsy, if I remember correctly, was just that they were trying to send paramilitant organizations after them. Compared to that, I think that's a substantial difference. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Secondary Shame...]] The fact is, Mr President, that we are in the middle of a coronal virus epidemic, and obviously this has a life-related dimension, but there is also an economic protection and job protection dimension. As we talk about every week here in Parliament, we operate a complex programme of economic recovery and job protection and job creation, which includes wage increases as well as tax reductions, support for families, retirement of the 13th month pension and further policy programmes. These policy programmes seek to protect the most vulnerable. I think, at least now, I'm not sure of anything, but perhaps that pensioners, small-time earners, families, those who live on wages and salaries are the most vulnerable to the epidemic, perhaps even you do not dispute it, so these targeted programmes are all trying to support them. And do you know what another link between these programs is? I am not happy about this, but we are talking about an existing link: none of these programmes have been supported by you and the left in Parliament in recent years. The specific feature of these programs is that for you, the political barbecue was more important than pressing the button at a given point and supporting these programs. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches.]] And I know that there is freedom of speech, especially within the walls of Parliament, but every action has consequences, and I think that there will also be consequences for you, when you should have decided to support measures relating to the protection of life, the introduction of an extraordinary legal order. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You mean evictions? The 18,000 families?]] Then they were talking about kingdom. When it was supposed to be decided to support the acquisition of assets, you clapping first, then talking nonsense and then going against it. When it should have been decided what to do with the disease treatment before the third wave, you would have wanted a full opening and demanded in a loud voice. And when the vaccination program was to be supported, you turned your back on the vaccination program and used your full strength and political weight to attack those involved in the defense, I heard here a week or two ago, as you personally attack the Chief of Staff, and you stand up for Lajos Korózs, who is also their political ally, who produced Kamuvideos. And it's very clear, unfortunately, that they've been driving people against Eastern vaccines. While they were injecting themselves, they were teasing people against the Eastern vaccines. As published statistics show, all vaccines in circulation in Hungary are safe and effective. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] [[14.00]] Therefore, I would like to ask the honourable Member to try to change their policies, try to deal with vaccination and not barbecue, try to take the side of people in defending against the coronal virus. [[Noise.]] Otherwise, it's gonna happen like it's happened in the last year. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] they'll be tested and found light. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-24	Next up is KDNP's representative, Lőrinc Nacsa. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2021-04-26-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, During the coronal virus epidemic that has been with us for over a year, we have learned many important lessons. But the first word is, of course, thanks to the hard work of doctors, nurses, epidemiological experts, paramedics, social workers, police, soldiers, logistics professionals, government and civil servants, educators and many others, we were able to fight this insidious enemy, the virus. We can see how important it is to have a strong and capable government at the head of the country, especially in the event of such a crisis. It is terrible to think about what would have happened if a chauvideist, fake news producer, a rainbow coalition attacking the authorities and professionals and against vaccination had led the health and economic defense, who were constantly fighting in the municipalities and trying to argue in disagreement. An important lesson, then, is that the left cannot be expected not only in peacetime but also in emergency situations. Their petty political interests are more important than unity, defense, crisis management and, unfortunately, even human life. After all, the left lied about introducing an extraordinary legal order, lying about measures, statistics, professionals, lying about authorities, procurement of assets and even life-saving vaccines. Hungary is the second place in the European Union in terms of population-proportional graftation, preventing the rich Western European Member States from doing so. 3 million 604 thousand people have been vaccinated to this day. Thanks to the outstanding Hungarian vaccination programme, a gradual reboot could be started. Ferenc Gyurcsány led the open campaign on the left, demanding a ban, petitioning and anti-vaccination campaign, and suddenly turned into a sly campaign that undermines the effectiveness and safety of vaccinations. For example, DK said earlier that if Viktor Orbán continues to force the Chinese vaccine, there will be no one million vaccinees. The Hungarian people gave the only possible answer to this and many other anti-vaccination statements, decision proposals and petitions: the number of registered persons and the number of vaccinated people are constantly increasing. Because the Hungarian people want to get back to normal as soon as possible, to sit on the terrace, to go to a museum, to meet each other, to hug their loved ones, and they know that only the vaccination will allow it. Klára Dobrev recently said that no one said that Chinese and Russian vaccines would help. Yes, you can. Scientists, authorities, professional journals, statistics. All vaccines authorised in Hungary, whether they come from the East or the West, are safe, effective, saving lives and helping us to leave the restrictive measures behind gradually. The politician of the Dialogue, Benedek Jávor, who said last year that this was a relatively harmless epidemic gambling game called the mass use of the Chinese vaccine in Hungary. For example, Peter James urged me against him in a racist way. And Szabó Timea claimed that the millions of Hungarians who will receive Chinese vaccinations are not protected. We can see that if it were up to the left, there would be a lot less vaccinated today, a lot more patients, much further opening times, and we would not be talking about the steps of rebooting now. To date, the left would have closed people away from the current steps, from the ever later date of the curfew, from the terraces, from the service providers and soon much more. There's no doubt that for a moment, they don't look at people's interests, for a moment they don't listen to the CDC experts, for a moment they don't care that the vaccine saves lives. They're interested in the pep rally you can get at the Little Mansion for sly, unsettling comments. DK, Jobbik, MSZP, LMP, Dialogue and Momentum, filled with hatred for the government, would take away the possibility of vaccination from millions of Hungarians with premeditated intentions and the steps of restarting everyone. We ask all of you not to listen to the anti-vaccination left, register and be vaccinated; it is clear that this is the only way to return to normal life. All vaccines available in Hungary are safe and effective. The government's statistics published at the end of the week, although many people want to explain a lot of things, one thing is for sure: there are no primary and secondary vaccinations in Hungary, all of them use, and all of them are safe. We ask everyone to serve life by registration, vaccination and discipline, not the campaign of death on the left. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-26	Secretary of State of Hungary Levente has the floor, please.
u2021-04-26-27	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The work of our Hungarian countrymen participating in hundreds of thousands of defences will be carried out. You can see the light at the end of the tunnel, the result of the efforts made in the last year is already visible, because if we can continue the vaccination campaign at the current rate and there is nothing stopping it at this stage, then by the end of May we can reach the state that all Hungarian citizens who request vaccination can receive it, and Hungary is the first among European states, if we do not count the dwarf states, the few hundred thousand countries, then it will reach the state that the full vaccination has taken place. This is a historic success, especially in the light of the enormous economic damage that every country in Europe is suffering, but also in the world, which is affected by this epidemic and which is faced with the economic effects of the epidemic, practically without exception. Thanks to this result, the hard work that our fellow citizens have done, thanks to the discipline of Hungarian people, the willingness of millions to give up their way of life in order to achieve this result first in Europe. Meanwhile, what do we see when we look around? We see, House, that the largest and richest Member States in the European Union are desperately fighting for newer and newer shipments of vaccine, fully at the mercy of Brussels' dilettant vaccine procurement and distribution strategy, while Hungary is only coming to Hungary this weekend and in the next few days in a million-million-dollar order from the east to the Russian and Chinese vaccines. A few days ago, 600,000 doses of vaccine came from China, and tomorrow morning we expect 480,000 vaccines from Russia, a few days later we expect another 400,000 doses from China, and in May we will complete this phase of Eastern procurement with nearly 3 million doses. Hungary is therefore not at the mercy of Brussels, Hungary is not at the mercy of corporate interests, behind the walls of Brussels bureaucrats, who knows what logic it has taken. We are on our own path, the sovereign Hungarian foreign policy, well, has achieved its results, we are not dependent on anyone in terms of vaccine procurement and vaccination programmes. While hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens work in hospitals every day, out on the street in order to get out of this situation, while the government can lead the country within a few days, within a few weeks, to the full population being vaccinated, at least the part of the people who is asking for the vaccine, while the opposition, as it has been said today, has not been helped by the country, but in many cases it is the feeling that the people are cheering for the epidemic, when manipulated information is being fed to the population, when they also endanger the lives of their own voters, in order to gain political benefits that they feel they have suffered because of the calculated losses. Dear Enemies, These losses don't weaken the government, they don't strengthen you, they weaken the country. When you create insecurity against certain vaccines, you risk the lives of people, people may die in this, and especially your own voters, who obviously pay more attention to what you say, the people who put their trust in you are now being deceived, insecure and, where appropriate, put at risk of life because of their irresponsible communication. Dear House, Every day we hear how European states and European buyers fight for the vaccine, while Hungary receives hundreds of thousands of Eastern vaccines. Hungary is on its own path, Hungary will successfully complete this phase of vaccination, and Hungary will be able to make preparations in time for further challenges. [[14.10]] When vaccination is still in progress in the largest countries of Europe in the autumn, the first vaccination campaign is because, if one is registered in Western Europe today, there is a good chance of an appointment in autumn or by the end of the year, Hungary, as it did last year, will be able to prepare for possible new challenges in time. The left-wing opposition could not be expected this time either, as at so many historic moments, when the fate of the country was at stake when the lives of Hungarian people were at stake, but the government and the Hungarian people were in place, and they did the work that led to the end of vaccination as the first country in Europe. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-28	Thank you very much. Now it's time for the Fidesz faction leader, Máté Kocsis. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-26-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, We're almost over the third wave of the coronal virus epidemic. This is due to the fact that more and more people are gaining immunity in Hungary, because the government's vaccination program is effective. Vaccines protect people. Despite any incontestation, all vaccinations are good. That's why the number of diseases is decreasing. Remember, a year ago, within the walls of the same house, we were discussing when the protective equipment would come, when there would be a vaccine, how many of our countrymen would be brought home from abroad, and when this would all be over. Since then, much time has passed, not only Hungary, not only Europe, but the whole world has fought and fought the epidemic. Today, we are at the moment that, in contrast with other EU countries, the Hungarian government is removing restrictions step by step and we are able to restart life and the economy in Hungary. The vaccination program is successful, more than 3.5 million vaccinated Hungarians, 4.5 million registered, who did not fall for the uncertainty campaign, who knew that the vaccination was a lifesaver. Hungary has implemented and implemented the most successful vaccination programme in the European Union, the Hungarian government has entered on time and has acquired safe vaccines on time. In fact, more and more countries are now choosing the Russian vaccine that you have attacked many times in the country. Last time, the Germans, 30 million pieces. If everyone accepts that vaccination saves lives, then, as a comparison, if statistics are already loved - 37 percent in Hungary, the average of the European Union is 21. There are Member States where only elderly chronic patients are vaccinated, and some where no one else can register for the vaccine, while all age groups can take vaccination at home. I urge everyone to register and immunize themselves. However, there is a phenomenon that will accompany the defense against the coronal virus, and this is that you, the left, are regularly searching for the attack surface. You want to beat us, not the plague. This is what they did in protective equipment, in their school-opening debates, while the WHO itself was also very appreciative about school-opening and closing government decisions, and they are doing the same in relation to vaccines now. I can't remind Parliament's public opinion of Lajos Korózs' campaign of camuvideo, which launched the entire unsettling campaign. It's symbolic and awesome. In addition, a petition and a parliamentary resolution proposal were launched against vaccinations, which were never withdrawn. I can't recall a single moment in the last year when they were going to do their part in the fight against the epidemic. You've been weighing. In one of the pans of the scale, it was that we saved people and lives at the cost of vaccinations, and at all costs we encourage all people to get vaccinated; and in the other, there was some political benefit, saying you said that if the vaccination program was not successful, if there were many dead and many infected, that would be a greater political chance in 2022. You chose the latter. Heartless and soulless politics. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] And what I would like to stress to you, if you love statistics, is that no one is leading statistics on how many of our countrymen we've lost who haven't been vaccinated because of your insecurity. We know of two local councilmen who died because they refused the vaccine. We don't know how many hundreds, how many thousands of people there are among the deceased you've discredited. Be careful with the statistics. But there are 4.5 million Hungarians, to whom we owe thanks, whom we thank for registering. But what I think is particularly important is that there are many doctors, nurses, who have fought for people's lives every day with decent, honest standing, tireless work. There are soldiers, policemen who were disciplined to defend themselves. And we have dead countrymen across the border from here and across the border. In honor of all of you, I propose to Mr Speaker that Parliament stand by to express its respect and recognition. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-30	Mr. Team Leader! Older people know that the younger ones may have been informed that these gestures have been used since 1990 to spice up the mood of those in parliament. For this reason, for the future, I would like to ask you and your fellow opposition Members to present their honourable proposals at the House Committee meeting, where there is a chance of reaching consensus. I am now going to assume that your proposal must enjoy consensus in the light of what has been said today, so on an exceptional occasion, but I will give in to this pressure, and I will ask the fellow Members to stand up for a moment and pay our respects. [[The people in this room stand up.]] Thank you. State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2021-04-26-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, You yourself have pointed out, honourable Member, that the WHO regularly gives an opinion on the Hungarian anti-epidemic control. On 22 April, the WHO Regional Director said that an exemplary vaccination campaign is being conducted in Hungary, that the vaccine is considered a life-saving tool, whose question goes beyond geopolitics. The WHO leader has therefore also pointed out that vaccines should not be seen as a political issue but as a means of saving lives. Somehow, these words are never heard by the representatives and politicians of the Hungarian left. For example, Gergely Arató, who spoke here today, said that we do not want any vaccines that have not been tested by European professionals. It seems to him that the Hungarian professional is not a European professional, because Hungarian professionals have also studied Chinese and Russian vaccines, but Hungarian professionals are not Europeans. According to the news, their efficiency is even less than 50 percent. I think the data released at the end of the week also contradicted this part of your sentences. Or it seems that András Fekete-Győr hasn't heard the WHO opinion; he said that the government shouldn't buy a Russian vaccine without EU permission, because it's a waste of money. So they think the money for the Russian vaccine, the money for the Chinese vaccine, is a waste of money, and we think it's a lifesaver. Ferenc Gyurcsány said, "I don't want the Hungarians to be there as guinea pigs for vaccination with Eastern vaccines." In other words, Ferenc Gyurcsány considered the Russian vaccine as an experiment, who even repainted his living room and even pulled his couch when Vladimir Putin personally visited him, and when Toto's dog licked the Russian president's face, he was very scared not to get angry at Vladimir Putin. Well, now you're speaking so bravely from opposition against the Russian vaccine. From this we can see that none of his sentences are authentic. And Péter Jakab, President of Jobbik, who is now on the left, said, "What does Viktor Orbán want to kill the Hungarian people with?" The Chinese, outdated, who knows what kind of vaccine. After that, even his fellow Members and fellow politicians went from left to right and got themselves vaccinated with the Chinese vaccine against which a lot of people here in Parliament or in the press spoke. It also shows that nothing is expensive for the left, but they may have gone too far in the case of vaccines, they should have listened to the WHO leader. [[14.20]] The WHO Regional Director also commends the fact that grafting is well above the European average. Let's add that the Hungarian left did everything he could! Since November last year, in order to prevent the spread of the Hungarian vaccine above the European average, because, where possible, the pharmaceutical authorities, the defence participants, have also been attacked, they have also tried to persuade the general practitioners not to administer the Eastern vaccines. They had a candidate on the left who openly agreed not to give it up, and their politician said that sometimes the disease is better than the vaccination. They also try to attack vaccinations in all other areas. In fact, registration is now being attacked, and we have managed to inoculate many people in a way recognised by the WHO. Hans Kluge also said that schools should be closed and opened at the latest. I commend this to those who attacked the last cautious and gradual opening of kindergarten and school a week ago, they also contradict what the WHO regional leader says. But earlier, the Director General of the WHO acknowledged the speed of the vaccination campaign in Hungary, and Ledia Lazeri acknowledged several times, even in left-wing media, that Hungary was effectively defending itself. And what does the left do in the meantime? He keeps making fake news. For example, Erzsébet Schmuck, a party leader of the anti-Killing Left, who was otherwise vaccinated with a Chinese vaccine, dealt with the fact that he was attacking social institutions on his Facebook page, making completely false statements about the social institution in Tépiógyörgy and adding a photograph to his post. But within moments it turned out that this picture was not taken in Hungary, but was taken in Russia, showing a corridor of a hospital near Moscow. And one of the leading politicians on the left, in the middle of the epidemic situation, illustrates the reputation of a Hungarian social home, because it is likely to be there for the primary election and would like to get some extra votes for itself. Therefore, he attacks the government with everything he touches, he posts kamukép on Facebook, making it feel like it's in Hungary, while this institution is located next to Moscow. This kind of attack on social institutions, doctors, nurses, health institutions they're pursuing, this is a death campaign, it's unacceptable. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-26-32	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2021-04-26-33	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Lajos Rig, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Tamás Herczeg, Fidesz; Zoltán Varga, DK; Anett Bősz, DK; László Hajdu, DK; János Stummer, Jobbik, Anita Potocsányé Kőrösi, Jobbik. Speaking before tomorrow's agenda, the following representatives came forward: Sándor Burány, Dialogue; Márta Demeter, LMP; Lajos Oláh, DK; László Szakács, MSZP; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; István Hollik, KDNP; János Halász, Fidesz. Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Dániel Kárpát Z., Jobbik; Erik Bánki, Fidesz; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; János Stummer, Jobbik; Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz. On Wednesday, Andrea Varga-Damm, independent; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; János Stummer, Jobbik. Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik applied for the speech after the agenda on Thursday. Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik applied for the speech after the agenda on Friday.
u2021-04-26-34	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that there has been a motion to suspend the immunity of independent MP Ákos Hadházy on 21 April 2021 14.Bpk.752/2020/7. I'm a member of the Pécs District Court on a private charge of defamation. I gave this to the immunity committee to examine it. Fellow Members! The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now deciding on the proposals to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group proposed that on Tuesday, 27 April 2021, T/15705, amending certain law enforcement laws to strengthen public security. Following the vote on bill No.3 the T/15715 on the transfer of the maintenance rights of Eszterházy Károly University to the Egri County of Egri. Bill No. 1 to vote. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group also proposes that on Tuesday, 27 April 2021, T/15706 on certain provisions relating to asset management and amending certain laws concerning asset management and national financial services. T/15710 on public-interest trust foundations for voting. It shall take place after a vote has been taken. Anyone who agrees with that, please also indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has also adopted this proposal. The Jobbik Group proposed that on Wednesday, 28 April 2021, T/15985 on the Foundation for Research in Central and Eastern European History and Society. the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. T/16000 on the amendment of law and certain related laws. Bill C-66/18 of the Court of Justice of the European Union For the purpose of implementing the 2011 CCIV on national higher education, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. T/1590. The general discussion of the legislative proposal No 1 shall take place as items 1 to 3 after the decision has been taken. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has not accepted the motion. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear House, Now, at 2:28 p.m., we will move on to interpellation negotiations after a few seconds of recess, after our fellow Members, who are busy elsewhere, leave the Chamber quickly and quietly. [[Several Members are leaving the room. It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'd like to get back to work. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the case of the interpellation which, in accordance with our adopted agenda, the Member did not accept the response to the interpellation, the votes on the acceptance of the reply will take place separately in the course of tomorrow's decisions. After this introduction, I give the floor to Mr Tibor Nunkovics, a Jobbikós Member, who submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology. You have the floor.
u2021-04-26-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Observe three of the largest employers in the last year, the second largest will start closing in September this year. These companies also provided a significant share of the municipality's revenue. The departure of two large assembly plants endangers the livelihood of more than 2,000 people, which means two thousand families in Ozd and around Ozd. They can't find a job nearby, so they will certainly need to commute to Miskolc and Eger, which, by the way, means two or two hours of travel a day. In the latter case, or in the case of both municipalities, parents will most likely encourage their children to leave Ozd because they will not be able to find a job here. [[14.30]] Obviously, these younger ones will go to Eger and Miskolc. Government-supported Ozd plants are important, and the locals are also happy about it. There must be a diversified economy in Oz, but unfortunately, the number of jobs that leave the city now is not close to their profile. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It requires a completely different workforce than those that are currently present in the city. Three new companies have recently been announced, who are going to the city, and you have communicated that on this basis and based on your communication, 550 jobs will be created, although a government decision has not yet been issued. The three companies are, unnamed, a concrete plant, which is otherwise fully automated or almost fully automated and promises to employ 30 people; a container plant, which is also likely to be sufficiently automated, is not going to be the case for hundreds of people; finally, a bus company, who admitted that it would be about three years before the first cutting can happen. So we can't actually talk about the 550 people here if we look at this a little bit more than you promised. In the Ozdi Steel Works area, they would also like to create an industrial park, which would not be a problem if the municipality did not have its own industrial park, and if they were to spend 1.3 billion forints on the industrial park you designed. The State will cover half of this and half of it will be a German multinational company. If this amount were to be used to complete the existing industrial park, it would also support the Ozd municipality, and thus support the Ozdians, the Ozd neighbourhoods, by creating jobs there. By the way, the city of Ozd managed about 1300 million forints a year until your crisis management. This has now been reduced to HUF 500 million, and the municipality should now maintain itself from this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm asking you how you intend to solve the situation of the Ozdians and support Ozd. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-26-36	To reply, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Instead of the left, i.e. your aid-based policy, the national civilian government aims to strengthen a work-based society. To this end, we have taken and taken our measures now, the merits of which are clearly visible [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] From the perspective of the last ten years. The fact is, honourable Member, that when we took over the country in 2010 on behalf of the Hungarian people following the administration of your left-wing allies, the employment rate in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County was 48.1 percent. This has increased to 66.8 percent as a result of the persistent work of the families and companies living there until the outbreak of the coronal virus. The county unemployment rate has dropped from 17 per cent in the last ten years to less than 5 per cent. If we look at the unemployment figures in the Ozd region, we can see similar trends. The number of registered job seekers in the Ozd district fell from the previous level of persistently over 10,000 to four thousand until the first quarter of 2020, i.e. before the outbreak. During the same period, the number of registered job seekers in the city of Ozd fell from 5,000 to 2,000. Honourable Congressman, Your left-wing allies, after the change of regime, have completely failed to privatise the Ózdian exclamation. In doing so, many families were thrown into uncertainty. Go to them. This policy and these people you personally want to bring back to power in an election alliance with them. The government has helped the Ozs several times. It ensured the long-term livelihood of nearly 500 local families and the possibility of producing new marketable products by purchasing a 20% share of EUR 30 million in the Ozdi Steel Works. Wellis Hungary Zrt., which purchased ABB's site from Ozd in December 2020 It plans to create 800 jobs, the investment work of which has already been started, as a significant part of the future employees of the factory have already been recruited and spends their learning time. In the last development cycle, the city received HUF 2.6 billion in development aid, but local economic operators could also develop their own businesses for HUF 2.4 billion, while the settlement's approach was supported from more than HUF 4 billion. The industrial park created by you, honourable Member, mentioned by the town of Ozd, is unfit to receive any industrial activity without considerable expense, since it is built on a swamp; on a swamp, honourable Member. Only the soil exchange in this area would be HUF 1.5 billion, but the removal of permanent groundwater would require an additional hundred million. Therefore, on the proposal of Gábor Riz, representative of the region, the government approved a HUF 650 million grant for the creation of brownfield industrial areas, making use of infrastructure opportunities, thus creating a total of 550 new jobs by 2022. Because Congressman Riz is working against you, he has plans, suggestions for the people of Oz. I ask you to support Congressman's work. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-26-38	Once again, the congressman has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-39	Thank you for the floor. There really is a ridiculous level of propaganda here in this House with these pre-written speeches. Mr. Secretary of State talked about everything but the essence. [[Moore in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] So you made a promise to an now closing multinational by expanding routes 23, 25 and 26. Here's the government decision, by the way. That hasn't happened to this day. You will let Oz be isolated. It is no wonder that employers are leaving, by the way, and that no one will want to go there if the city is simply not accessible and is not connected to the circulation of motorways. We have to bring him here, take the next thousand people to Ozd, because the city, the people living there, the Fidesz people, the opposition, everyone needs to be able to stay in Ozd and work in Ozd. You talked about everything but that. Shame on you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-26-40	As I understand it, the congressman wanted to express in a flowering language that he did not accept the answer. [[Tibor Nunkovics says no.]] Mr Zsolt Molnár, representative of the MSZP, also submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Innovation and Technology. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-26-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, According to the government's decision, you are responsible as a government commissioner for the implementation of the project to implement the Budapest campus of the University of Fudan in China. There is no problem with that, but in this capacity you have made a declaration to News TV that it would not be a problem for the secret services, but if a large country wants to carry out secret service activities, it does not need a university, because it is complicated and expensive. I ask the Minister, and he will answer on his behalf, that, although the Minister is undoubtedly right in this regard, the secret service activity does not require a university, but let us also add that if he wishes to carry out secret service activities while installing an institution of a large state, such a university can carry out an excellent cover for this. It is not a matter of all university students working for the Chinese secret service, but let us not rule out that there will be some of them who will, by nature, engage in intelligence activities. In view of this, I would like to ask the Minister whether this opinion is his personal opinion or the position of the government. Let us not forget that we are talking about a state that is located outside the federal system outside NATO, outside the European Union, and, of course, is carrying on a large-scale activity, for which it is not for the great authority to be angry at, but for the host State to create a situation that minimises national security risks. That is why I ask with respect that you plan to work closely with the Ministry of Interior and the National Security Services to minimise, as far as possible, these national security risks. Do you consider these aspects to be important, or will there be a basis for addressing this issue? Thank you very much for the floor.
u2021-04-26-42	Once again, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. [[14.40]]
u2021-04-26-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Your readiness is well indicated by your mistaking me for Minister László Palkovics, on whose behalf I can only answer you, and your speech could be thought and considered a genuine concern if we did not know that you were sitting in the successor organ of the party that served the Soviet secret services for decades. You are a mass murderer, you are a communist successor in conspiracy theories and you are trying to mislead the Hungarian people and the Hungarian public. Honourable Congressman, If the Chinese secret service were to appear through universities in the country, then both the United States and Western Europe would be in great trouble, as Chinese universities work closely with many higher education institutions in the Western world. Please do not deceive the Hungarian public. Honourable Member, you are not interested in the safety and future of the Hungarian nation, but you are shouting snakes and frogs at everything and everyone here in the hope of a moment of political gain. The MSZP, which has been suffering from a serious identity disorder for years, constantly seeking Brussels's favor, was happy to embrace it, then it was said that it was brotherly China. Allow me to quote:, It is a matter of fact that today the world's three power centres outside Europe are the United States, Russia and China. For Hungary, it is the ally and friend of the United States, but it is also necessary to build a close partnership with Russia and China, even if we do not agree with them all, because it is in Hungary's interest. This was said by his old-new boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány, honourable Member. Honourable Congressman, You are either unaware of the importance of having one of the best universities in the world set up campus in Hungary or intend to invest, ignoring the interests of Hungarian young people and the Hungarian economy. The University of Fudan will attract talented young people in Europe, enable cooperation and help further develop relations between the two countries. It is in the interest of the country to develop good relations with China, and Hungarian companies can appear in China with their own development and products. That's what this project is about, so it's beyond itself. The infrastructure, which is the result of the development, also attracts Chinese investors and corporate research and development centres to Hungary, which can generate significant investments and have a serious economic recovery effect on the Hungarian economy. With the Hungarian involvement of Fudan, Hungary's regional knowledge centre can be further strengthened. Honourable Congressman, Improving the quality of Hungarian higher education could be a common interest and a common interest, and so far it has been a political objective that no one has disputed. The political hysteria wrapped in an ideological robe is only incomprehensible because the appearance of the university in Hungary is not new, as Fudan University has been training in Hungary together with Corvinus University for two years, and the establishment of campus has been on the table for some time. We want Hungarian young people and Hungary to be the winner of the future, and the development of Fudan University also serves this purpose. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-44	Once again, Mr. Congressman has the floor.
u2021-04-26-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I believe that the Secretary of State has obviously been inoculated in the last few weeks and months, and I hope that this is not the side effect of hearing disorder, because I have said that the interpellation addressed to the Minister, on whose behalf you will answer this question. You put me in an easy position because you didn't even try to give me an answer because you proved one thing, Mr Secretary, that you, like your minister, didn't know about national security issues, because it wasn't about our relationship with the Chinese state in history. By the way, all due respect to the Chinese people and Chinese culture, not to mention Chinese food, but here I was talking about Hungary's national security aspects, and it is the responsibility of the Hungarian state to ensure that we do not harm our country or our federal system. You didn't even try to answer that question, so, with all due respect, I obviously don't accept your answer. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2021-04-26-46	Now, László Varju, who, representing DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance, which will be answered by the State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office of responsibility and competence in this respect. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-26-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Deputy Minister, Within the framework of the recovery and structural funds of the European Union, the amount is around HUF 18 000 billion. If your blessed activity continues, Mr Matolcsy's work will result in a decline in the euro exchange rate of HUF 20,000. A separate chapter of the plan to use the Fund, to be submitted to the European Commission this week, addresses the fact that the country-specific recommendations that the government has put into the library for years have been more unread... suddenly as if they had been enlightened and everything became important. Now that the Commission has indicated that it will pay particular attention to their fulfilment, they have suddenly been taken out and promised everything, as you will be asked to do so. You claim that the prosecution's ruthless action against corruption, pure public procurement, judicial independence, freedom of the press, all the way to the MTVA building, until then, you promise anything for money now, with a chain of towers, just to get to the bottom of this. All of this could be approved from the heart, I mean, the previous ones, if we didn't know from their prime minister that we shouldn't see what he's saying, but what he's doing. It turns out, too, that they want to make the modest salary increase promised to the doctors at the expense of the fund, and the problem is that the promise they made to the doctors in October was without any foundation. The rest is customary, there is no mention of the recovery of the economy, because this would require a wage supplement, a pension allowance, a 100% pension for those who are out of work and a job-seeking allowance, an increase in family allowances, a raise in public employment wages, this would be necessary in order for something to happen. I am aware that your correct procedure, to call on you to do so, is about as much like talking the Bengal tiger into a vegetarian diet, which is why I would like to put two questions, three. Will you continue to engage in meaningful consultation with social actors, including opposition parties and local governments, on the use of these resources? When will you take the necessary legal steps, submit the proposals to Parliament? The third is that he is willing to commit to the next elections [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They only spend your share and leave the rest to the next government? Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2021-04-26-48	Mr. Balázs Orbán has the floor.
u2021-04-26-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I'll try to answer your questions fairly. It won't be easy. [[Interviews from the ranks of DK, MSZP.]] Which is not because of my intention, but because of the nature of your questioning. One saying came to my mind, you know, not to take it personally, but the dog barks, the caravan passes, so the negotiations on the use of EU funds are possible, and I think that word can be used, struggles and months have lasted. At the European Council summit in December, Hungary and Poland achieved a major success despite your minework. We do not think about these resources on the basis of party policy and government policy; in this sense, we have a completely different logic than yours, because you are asking why we are not doing this to spend these resources later. I think you're sitting on the wrong horse, Congressman. We are in the middle of a pandemic, a threat not only to human lives, but also to the functioning of the economy and jobs. Wouldn't it be intelligent, wouldn't it be human, wouldn't it be European if you left-wing representatives were working to get these resources to the Hungarian economy as soon as possible? [[14.50]] And you are openly asking the question in the interpellation that it might not be possible for us to spend those resources after 22:00. Sorry, Congressman, there are people in Hungary, businesses in Hungary suffering from the coronal virus epidemic, and there is such an EU recovery fund; you are not telling the truth about the type of financial commitment. After all, the whole fund is a loan, but the credit is a non-refundable part of us for the time being, it is important to call it down, we think that it is a source that can appear immediately in the Hungarian economy, but we think that there should be a national consensus here. Otherwise, this consensus is beginning to form, but you do not participate in this consensus. We have sent letters of consultation to hundreds of organisations, including opposition-led municipalities, allies, even though there has been a political debate between the walls of Parliament for several hours to try to reach a consensus on areas that are important in terms of restoration and reconstruction, you and those organisations that want only to politicalise, not to help the use of resources, have not made one meaningful proposal. I have also mentioned in the speech before the previous agenda the nine areas which the Government considers to be of paramount importance. And to answer one more question: I have to submit the final plans by 30 April. With this, Hungary will be among the first to be able to present these plans, and I recommend hundreds of pages of documents to the European Commission for study. Negotiations are still taking place, calm down, Congressman, there will be a compromise with the European Commission, just as it was born before. I was talking about nine areas. I do not understand what is your problem with these areas: demography, higher education, catching up settlements, water management, green transport, energy and greening, circular economy, digitalisation and health care, which area is not acceptable to you? Because what I understand is that when you were in a government position, you didn't put surplus resources in the vast majority of these areas, but you withdrew these resources. But maybe after ten years it wouldn't be unnecessary to study the past [[The president's ringing the bell.]] of his mistakes. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-04-26-50	I'll ask Congressman if he'll take the answer.
u2021-04-26-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to predict that I won't accept the answer. Not even because I have no problem with the fact that if the government criticizes the opposition, that is what they can do, but there is a line, Mr. Secretary of State, that you are crossing, and that is the continuing lie when you say that you have taken a step to ensure social dialogue in this. That is why I think that you have crossed a moral line to prove, for example, that the opportunity that Hungary is facing to use this source is being played in a way that Mátyás Rákosi rejected this opportunity 73 years ago. And you, who wanted to veto the use of this amount, didn't really make any plans. The real problem, Mr. Secretary, is that with your cynicism, you want to steal it, not that. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I wonder what they're using it for. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2021-04-26-52	Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance. You have the floor.
u2021-04-26-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, The credit moratorium is coming to an end, and due to the bank accounts, a lot of people have been hit by a very rough surprise. Getting the accounts now faces the fact that the government basically tricked them. They proclaimed the credit moratorium as a redemption, while it only increased their debts. The government took hundreds of thousands into the loans. Its responsibilities are indisputable, since the measure has been introduced in such a way that everyone automatically receives the suspension, except for those who do not wish to do so on purpose. And since the only positive side of this procedure on every channel is that the repayments cannot be increased, people are now confronted with the fact that interest and costs can be hit by the bank at the same time. For this reason, after ten months of deferment, a person may have increased his or her period of credit up to 25-30 months. This was because the government designed the system to prevent any damage to the banks, the banks that achieved a net profit of HUF 1350 billion in 18-19. I don't think that's right. The banks are not at all involved in this defense. The banks didn't take their part in the defense, because whatever costs they're facing, you'll either pay it back or you'll have to pay it to the debtors. I think this should end right here, right now. We need to know that the government is extending the credit moratorium, and if it extends it, it will change the conditions so that it will finally cost the banks, not the debtors. When will the situation finally be, which would be a long time ago, when it would be time to give up the EBRD pact and finally side with Hungarian society against the banking system? My respectful question is, in the end, who do you represent: the banking system or your countrymen, the voters who elected you? Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in opposition lines.]]
u2021-04-26-54	State Secretary András Tállai will respond. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-55	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You are probably misinterpreting the relevant law and do not have the right information, which is why you are able to say such things in Parliament. Like the fact that the government double-crossed those in the credit moratorium. That's not true! It affected 2.7 million people, of which 1.6 million people used it. Out of 96,000 companies with credit contracts, 60,000 contracts were involved at the time of the introduction of the credit moratorium. Indeed, there was no need for proof of necessity, and there was no difference between sectors, no difference between how a person's income situation would turn out. This credit moratorium is unique in Europe: in all other countries there has been some kind of restriction, but not in Hungary. The word moratorium, as you well know, means temporary help. If someone thought it was exempt from repayment, they were wrong, of course, but they had to know when they stepped in. You've probably met someone or people like that. And the fact that the banks did better than that is simply not true. The law does not allow compound interest to be charged, thus the banks do not have access to this money, they have revenue losses, which reach HUF 100 billion in 2020 and early 2021. This is the direct quasi-loss of banks. You do not accuse the government of being on the side of the banks, as it amounted to 1000 billion in foreign exchange loans, the Hungarian government achieved that the banks eventually had to take over. Your speech is all about alarms and alarms that people are waiting for you, but it's not true, because those who took advantage of this credit moratorium, of course, until they have paid, they will have to pay that repayment of capital and that interest, but at the end of the term, they will have a longer term. But they can't have a higher repayment than they did when they entered the moratorium. If your contract is about being in the credit moratorium for 15 months or 10 months, your loan repayment would have changed and increased anyway, of course, they are affected by higher repayments. But by entering the credit moratorium, it can't get any worse, it can't pay any more. If you do not believe this, I suggest that LVIII of 2020. 13th Law, which later appears in other laws. See paragraph 5 of this article, all five paragraphs, which completely precludes banks from imposing any additional costs, any interest interest, anything else, on the Hungarian citizens, explicitly forbidding any increase in the repayment of capital. [[15.00]] Otherwise, the number of participants has decreased. Several people think that they're already starting to pay off the loans. Your claim is false. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-26-56	I will give the floor once again to the representative for a rejoinder.
u2021-04-26-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I'm just running my head around here. The fact is, the question can be asked in other ways, and then I will. Did the credit moratorium increase the bank's profits? The answer to that is a clear yes. And did the Hungarian banking system take its part out of the defence from another side, from another point of view or at another time? No, you didn't, Mr. Secretary. The fact is, the loss of income you're talking about is temporary, since it will be paid later, but it will be paid by the debtors. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The fact is that the moratorium in this form, with these detailed rules, is a scam, and I think there are a lot of people who also see it, experience it and pay it on their skin, even those who, by the way, have fulfilled all their payment obligations, but have not announced that they do not wish to participate in the credit moratorium. Therefore, I cannot accept your answer.
u2021-04-26-58	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Dear House, The congressman did not accept the response to the interpellation. Welcome, fellow Members. We'll get back to work. Ladies and gentlemen, Member Tamás Mellár, a representative of the Dialogue, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Why does the Government assist China in overcoming Hungary with debt? It's an address. I would like to inform the Member that the Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda, will respond to the interpellation. Congressman Tamás Mellar has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The leading news of the past few days has been that Fudan Chinese University is opening a campus in Budapest. There are many, many problems in this regard. We can also say that this investment is actually a veterinary horse for economists, because there are as many mistakes as possible. First of all, the fact that the Hungarian taxpayer's money, the loan taken out by the Hungarian State, will make this investment when the debt-to-GDP ratio in Hungary is above 80 percent. Then the other problem is that they want to build this campus in the student city, where there is already a valid agreement between the capital and the Hungarian government that they will build cheap accommodation for rural students. The minimum condition would be that there should be a local referendum and a local referendum should be able to decide on this issue, as otherwise this goal will be damaged. The next problem is that Fudan University has its charter that it is under the control of the Chinese Communist Party and the Chinese state. Well, if that is the case, then this goes against Hungary's current Fundamental Law, because only the scientific community can and can be given an opinion on scientific matters, so, in fact, a project that is unconstitutional will be implemented. The next problem is that the Chinese state construction company is going to build this, the construction company that built the African Union headquarters, and it turns out they found a lot of listening devices in it. There is therefore also a serious risk of national security in this whole thing and, moreover, there will be no multiplier effect, i.e. the fact that domestic entrepreneurs will be able to make a significant contribution to this large-scale investment. In this connection, I have three questions for the Secretary of State. The first is why the government is indebting Hungary to an authoritarian regime. The second is that the loan agreement between Hungary and Fudan contains a clause that the Chinese party has always stipulated, which allows the Chinese party to charge the Hungarian party costs in the event of political or legislative changes. Finally, the third is that the Chinese offer is for HUF 340 billion, while the government talks about 540. There's a difference of 200 billion between the two. What exactly does that cover? What's this extra 200 billion going to do? Thank you very much.
u2021-04-26-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda will answer you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-26-61	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Speaking of mistakes, let's find out who said that. Marxism has given me a framework of thought, in which I can place my growing knowledge, to which I can relate the newly learned theories. This was certainly useful, because in the chaotic confusion of things, I could always look down on my feet at a solid point. At the same time, he set a limit for me, to be more precise, a pair of filter glasses that determined what and how to see. I'll help you. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar: I wrote it in 1983!]] It is indeed you who wrote these, Mr Melár, and after that it is quite surprising that you are trying to communist us. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Wow! It's embarrassing.]] Honourable Congressman, The fact that the left is running an anti-university campaign, hoping for political benefit, we have already got used to it, because in fact, they are keen and opposed to any development that is in Hungary's interest and the success of Hungary. But the fact that you're a college teacher involved in embarrassing hysteria is absolutely amazing and sad. Unfortunately, we find that the left, including you, is refusing to support any foreign university outside the university of György Soros, honourable Member. Honourable Congressman, Fudan University is the world's leading institution, 34th best higher education institution, among the best among the best, MIT, Stanford, Harvard, Oxford, Cambridge. Only by reference, Germany's strongest university is 50, so it is behind Fudan, France's 52nd, the best of the Russian universities is 71st on the list, and Central Europe's best university and the University of Vienna is 150th in the ranking. So if an institution of this weight decides to create its first campus outside China in Hungary, it cannot be missed, such an opportunity cannot be missed. Honourable Congressman, To make Hungary the XXI. We need good universities. And our goal is clear and clear: we want young people to have the most valuable, useful knowledge. We would like to see institutions in Hungary with outstanding international rankings and among the best universities in the world, and Fudan is one of them, which is present in the international academic blood stream, and has close links with several western higher education institutions. Honourable Congressman, On the financial and execution issues, we have made it clear that it is currently in the preparatory phase, and there are still a series of open questions, and there is no way in which past time can be used, which the Member has used here for political hysteria. There is no decision, there is no contract, and therefore the non-contractual contract, which is not a decision, cannot contain any conditions that the Member wishes to bring to the attention of the Hungarian public. Honourable Congressman, You're spreading false news in your faction now, even when you're investing in the student city, because the government is sticking to the agreement with the capital. The student city will recover, as will the University of Fudan, and at least as many or more places will be available to students in the student city, which will be used not only by students of Fudan, but by any university student studying in Budapest. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-26-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will now ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go. [[15.10]]
u2021-04-26-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I cannot accept it, since none of the three questions have been answered by the Secretary of State. [[János Schanda: Yes, you can!]] But I would like to note that the Secretary of State has a text understanding problem, because the quote he has read just proves that I have received a Marxist training, and I found it scarce and limited my thinking. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Well!]] I wrote that down in 1983. I think it was a normal description then. However, it could have been quoted from my observational file, which was obviously called Radical, and it could have read that on 23 October 1981 he declared in public that there was a revolution in 1956 and not a counterrevolution. So who exactly is the communist in this whole story? Because they wanted to pin this on me. When your comrades used to work in the KIS or MSZMP, I used to write stuff like that. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-26-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to point out that the Minister of State's age would have been difficult to allow him to hold such a political position in the party of the state. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar: I said your partymates!]] Thank you very much. I'm just saying that for the record. Honourable House, the Member did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a wallet for families:. What new decisions has the Government made in expanding the home creation of families? It's an address. Madam Member, Parliamentary Secretary Róbert Zsigó will answer you. You have the floor, please.
u2021-04-26-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Hungary, like the Member States of the European Union, we all know that it is facing demographic difficulties. Countries that pursue family policies that improve the conditions for childbearing, including Hungary, seek to promote the birth of the number of children in each family, which requires social change in addition to direct government measures. Hungary's Government, with the full support of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction association, has established a wide-ranging family support system over the last 11 years, which has demonstrated its commitment to supporting families who want to have children who have been abandoned by left-wing governments with our actions. We are all saddened to remember the time when the left hit families with children with the greatest restrictions. They radically reduced family support, took away family tax breaks, home-building subsidies, made hundreds of thousands of parents with children unemployed, constantly raising taxes and living costs. A few weeks ago, we read the news that the desire to have children in Hungary increased by 24 percent between 2010 and 2019. This is the greatest development within the EU. Of course, we do not want to stop here, we want to continue on this path. All Hungarians can be proud of these numbers. This 24 percent can be assessed as the result of the last 11 years of family policy measures, including the unprecedented level of home-building subsidies. The scope of these measures has continued to expand and expand throughout the period of the epidemic. The Fidesz-KDNP Fraction Association can ensure young people who take the first steps of their independence, couples who plan to start a family, and families who have children, that they can count on the Government of Hungary, and count on the Fidesz-KDNP Fraction Association. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what new measures have been taken by the government in the area of increasing the home creation of families, in addition to the measures taken over the last 11 years. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-26-66	Thank you very much. Congresswoman, as I said, Mr Róbert Zsigó will give the answer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-26-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As you said, today is a better time for Hungarian families than before, since they were constantly taken away from them before 2010, family support was reduced, support for home creation was abolished, but since 2010 there has been a family-friendly turnaround in Hungary. The government's goal is to make it easier to start a family, have children and raise children in Hungary. Since 2010, we have increased the budget for supporting families by two and a half times. We do not take away from families in the crisis caused by a coronal virus epidemic, but we are expanding the funding. To give some examples: From 1 July 2021, the baby care fee will increase from 70 percent of the previous gross salary to 100 percent. But we are going to vote here in Parliament on Wednesday on the personal income tax exemption for young people under the age of 25, and we have started to rebuild the 13th month pension, the 13th month pension that was taken from the elderly during the Gyurcsány-Bajna era. In addition, we launched Hungary's largest home creation programme as of 1 January 2021 as part of the action plan to restart the economy. As of 1 January, the sales tax on new buildings fell from 27 per cent to 5 per cent. If CSOK is used for this, they do not even have to pay the remaining 5% VAT. For families who build on their own land, VAT on paid construction and land accounts will be refunded to a maximum of HUF 5 million. If a couple or family of children who are about to have children buy a new or used home from 1 January using CSOK, they shall be exempt entirely from the payment of a 4 per cent return on property. Also from 1 January 2021, the State will take over half the costs of renovating their existing homes from families with at least one child, up to HUF 3 million. In this connection, all those who do not have sufficient self-esteem to complete the renovation can use the home renovation loan facility from 1 February, with a ten-year term of up to HUF 6 million and an interest rate of 3 per cent. With the support of multigenerational home creation, we also offer opportunities for families who, under the same roof, support each other, still imagine their future in separate apartments. As of January this year, attic construction will also benefit from a grant corresponding to the amount of CSOK for the purchase of new apartments. As of 1 January, the fee for the notary procedure for applying for interest-supported housing loans by families raising or having children will be significantly reduced by 55 to 65 percent. I can also inform the Member that on 16 April the Government decree was issued to further expand our home-building programme, as a result, for example, of the expansion of popular home renovation support and of the need for renovation within a year in the case of the loan already taken out. As you can see from what I have said, the government supports Hungarian families, childbearing, child rearing and home-building by all means. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-26-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I respectfully accept the State Secretary's reply, and I would also like to assure the Secretary of State, the Minister and the Government that the Fidesz-KDNP faction association, as it has done so, will continue to provide all the support we can to continue to help young Hungarians, including those who are still ahead of family formation, those who are already married and are still ahead of child birth, and those who are already raising children and children, extending, of course, to grandparents and grandparents, because we always think in large families, in whole families. I would also like to assure the young Hungarians and families that, as long as Fidesz-KDNP governs Hungary, if there is a difficult situation in the country, such as now in the middle of a pandemic in the last year, although I think we are now at the end, so as long as we govern, we will not withdraw from family policy measures, as the left-wings did in 2002-2010. Thank you very much for your answer. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[15.20]]
u2021-04-26-70	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Congresswoman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, representative of KDNP... I'm sorry, I'm getting the paper in place. Congressman Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Honourable Member, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-26-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Deputy Minister, I'm sure you've heard of a number of cases that got sick after the vaccination, and worse, they even went to the hospital. In addition to the fact that I think it is extremely important that as many of our countrymen are vaccinated, it is also necessary to minimise possible risk factors. In recent weeks, I have received several requests to assist in carrying out a test prior to vaccination against a coronal virus infection because I would like to rule out the risk of receiving the vaccine infected with the virus. In view of the fact that, in the general view, we have never killed anything in the middle of an epidemic, the current position is an exception when it comes to vaccination in a fire, for example, flu vaccines are given before the outbreak, so I think it is important and justified to carry out a rapid test before vaccination and to rule out the risk of administering a vaccine to a possible infection. In the case, I consulted several renowned experts who considered testing prior to vaccination to be important without exception. Unfortunately, there is more news and false news about the various vaccines and their side effects. Possibly, vaccination for possible contamination could be reduced by testing, which, in my opinion, would increase confidence in vaccinations. Since there are many people who are asymptomatic through the infection, or who were infected with the virus without symptoms at the time of vaccination, I have submitted a decision to the Parliament to ensure that free rapid testing is carried out for vaccine applicants in order to eliminate and prevent possible risks. I would like to ask you, Mr Vice Minister, that it is also important for you to check before vaccinations because of the risk elimination. Do you support my proposal? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-26-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-04-26-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You are certainly aware, honourable Member, that Hans Kluge, WHO's European Regional Director, has been here in Hungary in recent days, and has met with several people who are involved in the Hungarian vaccination campaign, and have been informed about the protection against the epidemic here at all. He is not the first, as the WHO's global leader has already been informed about the Hungarian situation and expressed an opinion, and Ledia Lazeri has also talked about it several times. What did the WHO Director for Europe say last week? The fact that an exemplary vaccination campaign is being conducted in Hungary is considered a lifesaving tool, whose question goes beyond geopolitics. By the end of May, each registered person can receive the vaccine in Hungary, the grafting rate is well above the European average. What the WHO leader has said, therefore, is all recognition to doctors, nurses, warehousekeepers, logistics professionals and to everyone else involved in the purchase or distribution of the vaccine, honourable Member. The Hungarian vaccination programme, as it works and as it achieved the second best result in Europe, and if I do not look at the city states around the world, then the best 15 are the success of the Hungarian vaccination campaign, everyone acknowledges, everyone says that it is exemplary for other countries as well, how to move at double the speed of European countries in the vaccination campaign. So we're asking you, too, not to attack the vaccinations. I am not talking primarily about you here, Mr honourable Member, but you should also hold back your fellow Members on the left, who, on the other hand, have said everything there is to say about the tube. András Fekete-Győr: waste of money on the Russian vaccine, Márton Gyöngyösi: human experiment, Ferenc Gyurcsány: your group leader, Péter Jakab: the Chinese vaccine is outdated, who knows what its origin is, or György Lukács, your fellow Member: they will make a Russian laboratory out of Hungary, the vaccine is uncontrollable. In all ways, there are those who are more brutally, in a more subtle way, where registration is, where it is, where it is, but who have always attacked with regard to vaccination, with the fact that, by the way, the world's largest health organisation, the leaders of WHO, even the leader of Europe, when it comes here, or its global leader, when it is revealed, whether everyone in Hungary is speaking in the voice of recognition, honourable Member. It could be said that in the case of vaccination, experts, Hungarian or international organisations and professionals always acknowledge the Hungarian vaccination campaign, and the Hungarian left always, at any time, attacks it, and always objects to it. What I am asking you, honourable Member, is that, since it is now a matter of proposals for a decision to convince yourself and your fellow Members that all those who have given their names to the Parliamentary resolution against vaccination on the Left, which has not been withdrawn to this day, which includes that it cannot be vaccinated with a Chinese or Russian vaccine in Hungary, will be withdrawn. Believe me, it would help the most if their proposals to attack vaccination were withdrawn, honourable Member; precisely because the more vaccinations we can give, the fewer people that will be hospitalized, the fewer people who will be infected, the fewer people who will have serious symptoms, and the fewer people who will die. It is extremely irresponsible what the left has been doing since November last year, because if anyone had listened to you in this country, there would be half as many people vaccinated in Hungary because there would be no Chinese vaccines. And those of you who actually listened to your supporters and rejected the Chinese vaccine, who were later infected, are also a huge moral responsibility for carrying out such a campaign with your own supporters, and may have convinced others, which may have had very, very sad consequences. And about who can be vaccinated and who can't be given, which you have referred to, Congressman, in any case, it's up to the rennet doctor. The instructions for use of the vaccines contain this precisely, so that each person to be vaccinated will be able to decide whether to give the vaccine or to give another vaccine. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2021-04-26-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Well, after four minutes, Mr. Secretary tried to answer the essential question in three seconds. The doctor decides on the basis of a questionnaire in which the patient responds to the patient's feeling sick. Not usually. But now I'm trying to back up what I said with a case study. We took a 90-year-old patient to the hospital on Friday who had no upper respiratory symptoms, loss of sense of smell or taste, fever, cough, asphyxiation, and a single complaint, fatigue and loss of appetite for days. 90-year-old patients usually have that. The quick test showed a strong positivity on the spot. And now imagine the situation that when a 90-year-old without symptoms is vaccinated with an active virus, what the consequences can be. It would have been the simple question and the simple answer to support screening with rapid tests before vaccination or not. Yes or no, that's what you should have said. Instead, he once again read the government propaganda that we have been hearing for days. But if you're looking for left-wing politicians, don't knock on this side, but on your fellow Members, your party associates, who were even ministers of the communist state system. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-26-76	Congressman, do you accept the answer or do you not accept it?
u2021-04-26-77	I don't accept it.
u2021-04-26-78	Thank you very much. Dear House, Congressman does not accept the Secretary of State's answer. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister responsible for innovation and technology: what is the rate of re-opening in Hungary? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Secretary Tamás Schanda will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-26-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Deputy Minister, More than a year ago, the Crown Virus became part of our daily life, to which the Hungarian government reacted with unprecedented speed. As a result, the number of infections in the first wave of the epidemic has been kept low, while in many European countries it has grazed or exceeded the limits of health performance. [[15.30]] Unfortunately, however, measures around the world have not been able to prevent the spread of the disease, and it has turned out that the only solution to the fight against the coronal virus is to develop an effective vaccine. Hungary is one of Europe's top riders at the moment with regard to vaccinations in proportion to the population. The government contacted all potential vaccine manufacturers and sought alternative solutions to ensure that as much grafting as possible could be achieved as soon as possible. Thanks to Eastern vaccines, the number of first vaccinateds reached 2.5 million at the beginning of April 2021, 3 million on 16 April and nearly 3 million 604 thousand vaccinees today. This is the success of Hungary, thanks to all health workers, thanks to the people involved in the vaccination administration, thanks to the volunteers and thanks to everyone who has registered for the vaccination so that we can quickly put this distress period behind us. The third wave of the coronal virus epidemic has proved to be stronger than it has been before in Europe. Due to the drastically rising number of patients, the government maintained the protection measures, and the Hungarian population cooperated exemplary in enforcing the restrictions. Thanks to the Eastern vaccine and the accelerated vaccination plan, the severity can be alleviated as the population is grafted. In the light of the opinion of the Hungarian people, the government stated that the opening of the stairs could begin, with the curfew being shortened by two hours on 7 April 2021, the shops could be open longer, as well as the shops which have been closed so far, in compliance with certain epidemiological rules. Dear Deputy Minister, Last week children could return to schools in kindergartens, nursery schools, and lower schools, which is a huge help for most parents. When 3.5 million vaccinees are reached, the terraces can be opened, and as the vaccination progresses, the Prime Minister offered further facilitations. In this connection, I would like to ask the Deputy Minister with respect the rate at which the re-launch can take place in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-26-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to join you at the beginning of my reply and thank you for the effective and hard work of those involved in defense. Thank you to doctors, nurses, all the people working in health care. Allow me, in particular, to highlight health students, higher education students who are involved in the control of the coronal virus epidemic, we are infinitely grateful to them as well. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The British virus mutant is more dangerous, able to infect more people, so the third wave of the coronal virus epidemic has proved to be stronger than before throughout Europe and around the world, and indeed, as you have said, the only effective weapon against the virus is the vaccine, which is why we are working to get everyone who asks to receive vaccination as soon as possible. Indeed, we are in the final line, the number of vaccinees is 3.6 million, and more than 1 million 665,000 of them also received the second vaccine. This means that in addition to Malta, Hungary will lead the EU vaccination ranking, and Hungary will be the European country where the fastest vaccine is available for everyone. 37 percent of the Hungarian population have already been vaccinated, compared to 21 percent of the EU average. We stand well, but we continue to demand that all Hungarians, who have not yet applied for vaccination, register and inoculate themselves, because achieving adequate protection is essential for Hungary to be safely restarted. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The virus attacked not only our health but also the economy. We need to restart not only the economy, but also the life that we are trying to take the necessary steps to do. We also asked the opinion of the Hungarian people, in the framework of the national consultation, more than 528,000 people gave their views on how to reboot, thank them for helping them to make decisions. On this basis, we have prepared Hungary's re-launch plan, the individual stages of which are adapted to the number of vaccinees. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and When the number of people vaccinated against the coronal virus exceeded 2.5 million, shops could open and the services could restart. On Monday, April 19th, kindergartens and primary schools opened, and in secondary and secondary schools, home-based digital education will remain until May 10th, when these institutions will open. When 3.5 million vaccinateds were reached, the terraces could open, so we could have a piece of our lives back again, and, like other shops, the catering places could be open until 9:30 p.m. and the curfew changed to 11:00 p.m. In order to make it easier for the hosts, the terrace fees and bureaucratic permits charged to them have been abolished, even if some left-wing municipalities wanted to tighten up. The Hungarian vaccination campaign is going well, and soon we will be able to reach the 4 million inoculated population, and there will be further steps to be taken. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-26-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully ask the congresswoman, she accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-83	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your detailed reply and I respectfully accept it. We all feel that thanks and thanks to health care workers, vaccine participants, medical students, volunteers and all Hungarian people who set an example for the world to join forces, because I think that cooperation and vaccination are two tools that can bring a final blow to the virus. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-26-84	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, Member Dezső, a Member of the MSZP, notary of the Parliament, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, How do you intend to ensure the early detection of cancer during the coronal virus epidemic? It's an address. Dear Mr. Messenger, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, will answer you. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-85	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Deputy Minister, A few days ago it was found that Miklós Kásler suspended oncological screenings for public health purposes in Hungary. A lot of people criticized the practice. The Hungarian Hospice-Palliative Association, the Hungarian Anti-Crab League, the Mályvavirág Foundation, the Breast Cancer Forum, the Non-Alone Foundation, the Melcácsinfó Association, the Melcávéd Community, the Nézőpontvállító Egyesület, the Cancer Survivors' Association and the Tabitha Children's Hospice House Social Foundation have signed a joint declaration describing the following. With our full professional knowledge and our conscience, we declare that these measures are, in the long term, a serious health risk affecting a large part of society. Most people die in our country every year, and most of the new cancers are diagnosed here. According to professional estimates, nearly half of these diseases and related deaths could be prevented by providing appropriate services, early detection of the disease. This is prevented by the elimination of screening tests, and this, together with the restriction and suspension of several other health services due to the coronal virus, makes early detection and treatment of diseases significantly difficult. This is an unthinkable decision that leads to further worsening of the already difficult situation in the long term. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Deputy Minister: when are you planning to re-acquisition oncological screenings for public health purposes? How would you like to replace the screenings that are not being done because of the current suspension? How do you plan to ensure early detection of cancer during the coronal virus epidemic? Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]] [[15.40]]
u2021-04-26-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, responds. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, since there has been a lot of news about this in the press, it is important to clarify what is delayed and what is not. Of course, interventions involving recognised cancer patients will not be postponed, but will be carried out in the same way as if there were no coronal virus epidemic. These life-saving treatments and health-preservation treatments continue in the same way, these tests will continue to be carried out in the same way as if there were no coronal virus epidemic. At the same time, we see in the epidemic, not only in Hungary, but also in the world, that health institutions are extremely overwhelmed, or that those who go to a hospital during an epidemic expose themselves to a kind of risk of infection. Therefore, not only Hungary but also other countries decide to postpone them in time; in England this period lasted six months. This has happened in Hungary during the first wave, so let us not pretend that this has not happened in other countries or in Hungary; it has already lasted from 15 March to 31 May in Hungary. But this only concerns the public health investigation of healthy people, asymptomatic people, non-complaining people, in relation to studies performed every two or three years, to be more precise: screenings for which people are invited every two or three years, every two years for mammography and colon screening and every three years for cervical cancer screening. So here we have to talk about this couple of weeks of slipping, when we're talking about two or three years of voluntary screening, where a good part of the people are fortunately going, and unfortunately, another part of them isn't going. This therefore does not directly endanger anyone's health, anyone's life, because we are talking about asymptomatic, healthy people, but let us hope that we do not expose them to the risk of coronal virus infection, as has been decided in many other countries. As soon as this extreme burden has ended in hospitals, these screenings will, of course, continue, as it was last year: after this several weeks period, which I mentioned to you, everyone has then received a re-date; first, of course, those who would have been called in, say, March-April, in June-July afterwards, and if you are watching the whole year last year, honourable Member, you can see that although there was such a delaying period for several weeks, but overall, these screenings were not of less magnitude than in the previous years, and even if you go back even longer, you can see that they are larger, because the colon screenings were introduced by this government a few years ago. So no one's health will be put at risk, no intervention will be postponed for this reason, only and only for healthy people there are a few weeks of delays, but we trust that this will not cause anyone any health damage afterwards. What is important, however, is that with the introduction of the colon and rectal screenings that this government has done because we believe in screenings, and not only do we talk about it, as left-wing governments do, but we do, and we have invested heavily in this, we have already managed to start various treatments early in the case of thousands of people, and we trust that for many of us we have been able to save their lives so that we have done these tests before. We will continue to strive for this, and not for the left, which closed hospitals or put down hospital beds, or sent away 6,000 medical workers, or took a month's wages from all Hungarian doctors and nurses. We will focus on wage increases and on increasing filtering capacity in the future. And here I'm asking you not to spread any false rumors about healthy people and not sick people. These screenings will be carried out in the same way this year, as they were carried out after a similar temporary deferral last year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman, notary, to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-89	Mr. Deputy Minister. I am terribly sorry that in the four minutes that you have at your disposal you have failed to address any of the questions that I have asked you, and you have not been able to give an acceptable answer. I am also very sorry that I am sure in his efforts to bring down the opposition or me here, he forgot the most important thing: what I asked you was the life of man. Those who are involved in this matter, I am convinced that your answer was humiliating, and this is not about one life, it is about the lives of hundreds of people. Therefore, I cannot accept your answer.
u2021-04-26-90	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You heard the congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: he is risking the lives of thousands of Hungarians with the title of the Orbán Government. Honourable Congressman, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, will answer you. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-26-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I swear we didn't talk to my socialist fellow Member, but in fact, the essence of my interpellation will be similar to what he asked. We're going to give you the opportunity to finally answer it in a meaningful and normal way. I must add, I am very sorry that the Minister is not here, because one part of my questions would be a very non-political, more personal, conscientious question, namely, the inhumane human minister of an inhuman government who really stopped the possibility of pre-cancer screening. Let me give you my personal example. My mother wouldn't be alive today if she hadn't left and forced her gynecological cancer screening. So, to say that no one is worth it, otherwise health damage or risk with what you're doing, it's simply not true. We are now at the point of admitting, in practice, that health care has collapsed, that there is no energy, that there is no source to maintain these pre-existing cancer screenings. And what are we talking about? We're talking about your boss, who, we know very well, ran the National Institute of Oncology. And let me say here that otherwise his new wing was inaugurated with Ferenc Gyurcsány, and if anyone knows what dangers there are if these tests are simply stopped and abandoned. But apparently your minister doesn't care that we lost 26,000 patients, he doesn't care that 26,000 Hungarian families are now mourning the infected who died in Covid. You, like your minister, are making false and lying propaganda instead of grieving, instead of trying to get health care that you've ruined. I'd ask your minister, obviously you won't be able to answer that, but try to reconcile it with your conscience, to reconcile it with your Hippocratic oath, and to reconcile it with your much-spoken and flaunted religious beliefs with what you've done. How do you reconcile that a lot of Hungarians can sign death sentences for what they just did? Try to answer that. I know, now we'll have the usual and well-known panels. Leave this on the table. We don't want to hear that. Stand up and admit what you've done. Stand up, look the Hungarian people in the eye and say we are sorry! Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2021-04-26-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, is given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You know, a good man doesn't root for it, and he doesn't do anything to get as few people in his country as possible. However, the Hungarian left has done this: he has worked for months to ensure that as few Hungarians as possible receive the vaccine; you are also personally, your party president and countless fellow left-wing politicians. They said that they have been working in Brussels since November to ensure that there are no Eastern vaccines in Hungary. They're not working on more Western vaccines, they're working on fewer Eastern vaccines. You have literally said, "The government is trying to inoculate the Hungarian population with untested, collected, perhaps falsified, Eastern vaccines. The Hungarian government has apparently decided to use uncontrolled, unauthorized, uncertain, undetected, unknown and unknown Chinese vaccines in Hungary. It's obviously dangerous and irresponsible. And he went on to say, "If Orbán keeps pushing the Chinese vaccine, there won't be a million inoculated. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[15.50]] Just as your last sentence has not been true, your other sentences are not true, either, honourable Member, because you have made an effort to dissuade people in the vaccination. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Don't lie.]] What words did you use for the vaccination, the Chinese vaccine? Unauthorized, insecure, uncontrolled, untested, unknown content, collected and forged from here and there. That's what you said to people in their eyes, a vaccine that has been used around the world to get tens of millions of people vaccinated to fake it, honourable Member, do not give it up, fellow citizens, because it's a counterfeit vaccine. And then on ATV, he told me that, well, you were campaigning not only against a vaccine, you were campaigning against several vaccines, and you were proud of that a few weeks ago. And after that, you're asking questions of conscience. You, in a criminal alliance with other left-wing representatives, have done nothing for months but to understand with common sense how someone, a good-hearted person, could be rooting for as few Hungarians as possible to be vaccinated in our country. Honourable Congressman, It's an incredibly irresponsible thing to do. All vaccines used in Hungary are safe. And as for the screenings, you may have heard it, because I just answered that question, and you were here when I told Mr. Reliable. You're saying it's a huge irresponsible thing to admit to the collapse of health care. Then has health in England collapsed for six months until these screening tests have been carried out, honourable Member? 'Cause we had a couple of weeks last year. And we trust him, because fortunately, more and more people are being inoculated, contrary to your intentions, but thank God, more and more people are inoculating me that it can only be a few weeks. Six months in England, six months! Do you think English health is over because that happened for six months? Or are you fine in England, only criticizing Hungary, honourable Member? Because the English screening delay is a responsible epidemiological measure according to you [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What are you talking about?]] The same in Hungary is an irresponsible, human life-threatening... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's right... Leading Deaths in Hungary...]] And you're okay with that, that what's in England a proper disease control measure is a dangerous decision at home. This shows your full politicization of the CDC. They don't have any common sense about screening tests or the vaccine, but they only have political sentences. Honourable Congressman, All people who need oncology or other immediate intervention because of their medical condition [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Good. Thank you very much.]] I'll give it to you. You got it in the last few weeks, you'll get it in the next few weeks. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Really? Very good.]] These are the screening tests that are carried out on healthy people on a voluntary basis every two or three years, with only a few weeks delay. You know, if the left were on the steering wheel, the number of these screening tests would be much lower, because there would be no colon and rectal screenings in Hungary, because the civilian government expanded the scope of the screening tests and saved it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] thousands of people are already expected to die. Thank you so much for listening. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Don't tell me. A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-26-94	Thank you very much. With all due respect, Congressman, you accept the answer. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-95	Thank you, but I don't accept it. Mr. Secretary. I'm sure you remember better: it was your treasurer who said at the time that all Hungarians had the right to be stupid. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] I'm saying Simicka was right, but the problem is that you're seriously violating that right. You're telling me what the left is working on. You know what we were working on? We've been working to make sure that you, the Orbán's stooges, don't steal billions of dollars from the ventilator business. We've been working to keep you and Orbán's stooges from stealing billions of Chinese vaccine business. We are working to ensure that the Hungarian people are finally aware of the opportunities they have, to finally learn that millions of Western vaccines are coming into the country, which you are hiding somewhere. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Are you serious?]] That's right. When they talk about how Chinese shipments arrived, interestingly [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Why isn't your boss there when Pfizer arrives or any of the other vaccines arrive? You are misleading the Hungarian people. You've got millions on your hands. the death of a Hungarian man. [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties, including: Sit down! Shame!]]
u2021-04-26-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. And with all due respect, I would ask you to consider another time the terms you use in this House, because I believe that you have fallen to a level of personalism that I do not believe is permitted here. Thank you. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: - When will there be an online curriculum base that is widely available to all age groups? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer you. There you go. You have the floor. [[Zoltán Balczó: But not about vaccines!]]
u2021-04-26-97	Thank you very much. Dear House, Last year's school closures started a smaller reform of digital education. However, based on surveys of the experience of the digital working order, it is most apparent that without management and planning, the success of distance learning depends greatly on the equipment of the school and the creativity of the various teachers. Last year, therefore, was characterised by a small amount of chaos and few useful content was available on the areas of education management. Digital teaching materials are not complete, but only real interactive materials exist for high school students. It was not possible for everyone to become involved in school closure or other home stays. In January this year, a comprehensive methodological material was added to the EMMI website, which discusses the digital methodology for online, mixed and classroom education and makes recommendations for applications and content. On the other hand, the National Public Education Portal continues to contain digital educational material only from the 5th grade of primary school. In the case of junior students, the treatment of age characteristics puts teachers and parents in a difficult position. One of the main teaching lessons of the pandemic is that the burden of parents staying at home with a smaller child is multiplied, as teaching requires constant attention, which makes their work limited. Few of the younger children can learn on their own. We can also see the shortcomings of the Hungarian situation in the OECD 2020 publication. We are lagging behind in the area of differentiated education organisation and the transformation of the role of teacher. These include special attention to marginalised study groups, the preparation of teachers for digital education, knowingly designed hybrid education and the provision of educational expenses required by the situation. I would like to ask the Minister when the full digitalisation of the NAT will take place, considering the publication of interactive tasks to promote self-motivating learning and the preparation of teachers in the field of digital competences. Do they receive substantial help in using the knowledge they have acquired in teaching their own subjects? And last but not least, how do they guarantee the professional quality of new public education textbooks after they have removed from the Public Education Act the condition that the government should seek the opinion of the body designated in the regulation during the course of the textbook development process? With respect, Mr Secretary of State, Deputy Minister, I look forward to your substantive reply. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2021-04-26-98	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer, as I said, is given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, this year the Apáczai Prize can also be given symbolically to parents studying with their children at home, as many have taken over part of the tasks from teachers during the epidemic period, and the tasks have become completely new for teachers as well. Many teachers had extra efforts to teach students digitally. Digital education has obviously been a new task all over the world, especially for so long, for several weeks or several months. Therefore, it is commendable to everyone, students, teachers, parents, that they have adapted to the changed circumstances. This was necessary in order to buy time against the virus, against the epidemic, and with as little contact as possible, we can alleviate the epidemic curve. However, the last ten years have not been in vain, honourable Member. When our government started in 2010, 51 percent of Hungarian households had broadband internet. This increased to 86 percent in ten years, i.e. the proportion of families with broadband internet increased considerably. If you look at the OECD statement mentioned by you, 98,5 percent of Hungarian students have access to the Internet to learn, while the OECD average is 96.5 percent. So we are also better than the OECD average, thanks to the digital explosion of recent years. Here there was a digital welfare package and a lot of other things that helped in this, and the availability of home conditions for learning is above 90 percent. In this OECD survey, we are at the same level as Denmark, Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Austria, Finland, Germany or England, but we are ahead of France, Spain or Italy. We can be proud of this because we have now been in a situation with regard to digitalisation at the outbreak last year, which has provided some additional opportunities. [[16.00]] We also spent tens of billions of HUF on digital content development and asset purchase. In schools, bandwidth expansion and Wi-Fi deployment have taken place everywhere. We were able to deliver over 100,000 devices, desktop computers, notebooks, tablets, and eight thousand devices through the maintainers and thousands of computers through the task force during the outbreak. The Klebelsberg Center was able to purchase an additional 18,000 tools in this academic year, so that we could satisfy most of the demand for loans in schools. The national public education portal or the Sulinet digital knowledge base also contains the educational materials needed for learning. Let me draw your attention to something here. When we were in 2010 and there were market-based textbook developments, teachers were even forbidden, honourable Member, to copy each textbook page of the market textbook makers in the teachers' rooms and distribute it to students, because all sides of these laws, copyrights, were protected, and teachers did not even have the opportunity to copy textbooks used in school. On the other hand, since state-run and state-reserved textbook development, not only can they be photocopied free of charge, but they have also been digitally added to the national public education portal, everyone can download and print freely, students, teachers, parents and interested persons. This is the difference between the textbook market that has been shackled by market rules and that which has been privatised and the current textbook development, that has now been available to everyone, whether as a digital curriculum or as a digital version of a printed curriculum, for free and free access. We would have been in a much harder position if market textbook operators had dictated the rules. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and it wouldn't have been freely accessible to everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-100	Thank you very much. I respectfully ask Congresswoman to accept the answer. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-101	Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, I cannot accept your answer because you only partially answered my questions. I did not doubt that broadband internet was available, nor was it included in this speech, which you had seen in writing before, but simply did not answer my other questions. I very much hope that, in the past period and what will follow, we will be much more prepared for any extracurricular education, if and if this happens again, we will have to be much more prepared for this. I myself am a practicing parent, my child is in third grade, so I have experienced the disadvantages of teaching outside the classroom in both second and third grade, mainly and some of the advantages, which are very little. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2021-04-26-102	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman did not accept the response to the interpellation. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, decisions on interpellation will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we move on to immediate questioning. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Dear House, Mr. Péter Jakab and Congressman György Szilágyi, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Prime Minister? It's an address. The word belongs to Mr. Peter James. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-103	Thank you for the floor. Well, I'm sorry, Prime Minister, but I've never seen a coward like you. [[Uproar, interrogation from the pro-government benches.]] Are you even a man? ! Or is it a kid who does something wrong, messes things up, puts it all on someone else? You screwed up the crisis management? You screwed up. [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]]
u2021-04-26-104	Mr. Fraction Manager, if you're trying to take questions in the same style, I'm going to have to take the floor because it's a personal insult, Congressman, the way you're talking.
u2021-04-26-105	So you saved people's lives, Prime Minister? You didn't save her. You promised to measure the success of defense in human lives and take responsibility for everything. Prime Minister, 26 thousand Hungarians died in this country. We are the world's leading population in mortality. Nearly half a million of our countrymen are no longer employed, and those who have a job are barely looking for anything. Prime Minister, it would be time for you to take responsibility in a manly manner, but instead you point cowardlyly at something else: Brussels is to blame, Soros is to blame, the opposition is to blame, I am to blame. Everyone here is to blame, just not you. You, Prime Minister, have run this country by two-thirds since 2010, right? So I'm not in control, you are. In addition, you've been doing this with a power of attorney for a year, which means you have all the financial and legal means to handle the crisis and you're not handling it. Dudes and soccer! That's all that matters, isn't it? ! Last year the Felcsút soccer team received 21 million HUF per day support, while Hungarian workers received nothing. That week, when the death records fell in Hungary, you entered the public radio and talked about what the team captain and the coach of the Hungarian team would do. Instead of talking about what your job is, how you want to save lives and jobs. I don't know, Prime Minister, we might be better off if you were the federal captain, but the good Lord has beaten us by becoming Prime Minister, and as long as it remains so, this country will always lose. And I want a winning country! Do you understand? ! A winning country! But to do that, you need to get off the field now. So, Prime Minister, are you willing to make a trade, taking responsibility, as you promised, or pointing at someone else?
u2021-04-26-106	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-04-26-107	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to inform this House that 176 people who have died in the last 24 hours, there are 1936 new infected, the number of people who have been infected is 258 218. We treat 5661 patients in our hospitals without breathing, 782 with ventilating. The number of vaccinated persons is 3 603 901; completed immunisation, i.e. two vaccinations: 1 665 067 fellow citizens. We hope to reach 4 million vaccinees within days, 4.5 million in the first week of May, and we will be able to inoculate up to 7 million 700,000 people in early June. Ladies and Gentlemen, Death is a serious matter, you have to talk serious about it. Everyone who dies is someone's mother or father, perhaps a child, daughter, son, grandson, or brother. Therefore, when it comes to death, it is necessary to speak with sufficient seriousness. The leader of the Jobbik faction, however, speaks in a rude and naughty way. That's a way of talking we refuse. We weep for our dead, we give them the honor and pray for them. We sympathize with their relatives and help them. And we're gonna restart the country because life wants to live, and life needs to be respected. Thank you for your attention. [[Long-lasting, great applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-26-108	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of the faction leader. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-109	And does Prime Minister take responsibility, or does the deaf text continue to say that the opposition is against vaccination just because we want safe vaccines? [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks.]] Prime Minister, you told me recently that the younger ones are safe to infect each other, and that will be fine. Then 26,000 Hungarians died. So you're pro-viral now? In a unique way in the world, you want to organize a full-built soccer club in Hungary, crowded into a stadium with 67 thousand people, you may not even be protected. So you're pro-viral now? You've recruited a fidesz company in China's supply of vaccine, which is already making billions of dollars on the virus. So you're pro-virals now, Prime Minister? This isn't gonna work! While I see that you still don't understand that it's over, that's it, that's it, that's it, you've failed. How do I make you understand? [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks.]] Wait a minute. [[He's showing me a red card.]] Does that make sense? [[Delight and applause in the ranks of Jobbik. Uproar and interrogation from the pro-government ranks.]] Prime Minister, this isn't a vaccine ID, but I promise you, you can go next year to the locker room with it.
u2021-04-26-110	You don't seem to be interested in house rules, Mr. Group Leader. Because any presentation of this type requires a pre-notification, and I am obliged to warn you. [[Noise, interrogations from opposition and pro-government benches.]] A one-minute rejoinder is due to Mr. Prime Minister. [[16.10]]
u2021-04-26-111	Thank you, Mr. President. As regards the number and proportion of deaths, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the availability of EU data. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Where you put the data.]] You're welcome to take a look from there. Everyone can read it, it's public. You can see from today's report that Hungary is below the European average, the ninth in the middle field from behind. So much for the death penalty. When you're attacking health care, you're not telling the truth. You are unfairly attacking doctors, nurses and paramedics. [[An uproar from opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] because of the Hungarian health care, as opposed to what you claim... [[James Peter: Who is valeting them? Who's the valet?]] As opposed to what you claim, Hungarian health care is able to care for patients. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Really? James Peter intervenes.]] And that's why we, the parties of the national side, [[Intercom from Jobbik: Anti-national, non-national!]] We stand behind paramedics, nurses and doctors, and we support their work. But you're against vaccination, and that's the real danger. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] 'Cause they talk people out of taking shots, and they talk people out of taking shots. [[Again, Peter James shows a red card. Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Time!]] And maybe those people will die, and those people's lives will be your responsibility. Yeah, anti-vaccinations, which means you've got a lot of lives on your hands. [[Intervention from opposition parties, including: Time!]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-112	Thank you very much. Dear House, Member László Sza-kács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Why not spend it on people? It's an address. Congressman László Cook has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-26-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Why don't you spend it on people? I could have asked you, why did you take the money from people's tables? After all, about a year ago, that historic, never-seen, and then, in the end, one-third of which went to people, and the rest went to oligarchs, space exploration programs, everything else, but not people. To give a few examples: they did not increase job search support to 9 months, but they spent about 100 billion dollars on the Chinese project Budapest-Belgrád. They did not increase the amount of job search support, the lawn, the lawn, the family allowance was not increased, but the Mátra Power Plant was well spent 75 billion, 60 for MotoGP, 250 billion forints for MVM. They spent more on MVM than they spent to protect Hungarian jobs, which you assigned in the Hungarian-made Kurzarbeit programme. But it's not over. Tomorrow, the vote begins on the programme where about a thousand billion forints of public wealth will lose its common character. We remember that argument. The foundations are growing fungus-like, and you're putting in public wealth to make it a curatorium full of Fidesz soldiers who farm, who can't be replaced. If you accidentally call them back, they'll pick another one of you, and these foundations will have the public assets, the commons, ours. What do you need, say, for Mathias Corvinus Collegium, the Port of Révfülöp? That's just gonna require additional resources from our community, and it's gonna show that you're building something else here where public wealth becomes private property. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-04-26-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-04-26-115	As I understand it, the question was about aid granted at the time of the outbreak. I can give you this information, my honourable fellow Member. We've given wage subsidies twice during the plague. For the first time in the first wave, we gave HUF 33 billion to 16,611 companies to save 198 thousand jobs. And since last November, we have given nearly HUF 76 billion to 27,772 companies. From the latter support we protected 170 047 jobs, the average per capita support was HUF 443 555 in the second case, the companies received additional investment support, the Széchenyi Card Programme, the Eximbank's compensation loan scheme, the Garantiqa crisis programme and the Hungarian National Bank's growth loan programme. Small businesses receive an interest-free quick loan of HUF 10 million, which is not due for three years, and more than 4,000 businesses have requested this. In addition, we have halved the business tax, abolished the terrace fees for re-starting restaurants, and in May we will continue to pay wage subsidies. The Hungarian government did the best it could. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-116	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Mr László Kács is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, You have listed exactly what is about one third of the money that was intended for this, and you have gone from the same framework, and you know it, and I know it, space research and antlerage at the hunting exhibition, for 60-70 billion forints you took from the people's table, that's what this is really about. But my question also relates to the fact that you are now organizing a thousand billion forints of public wealth out of our common, ours. Prime Minister, what part of your government do you not trust? Why do you have to leave this to the board of trustees? Why don't you trust your own government? What would make decision making more flexible because it will be decided by a curatorium? And last but not least, why now? There's gonna be elections next year? Thank you for your attention.
u2021-04-26-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-04-26-119	For now, I would like to stick to the first question of subsidies, and then I will be happy to respond to comments on universities later, as there will be more. He said I know, and you know it. Indeed, we know each other, because you've spent quite a lot of years here as a congressman, and we've done it together. When it comes to how to deal with the crisis, you once had the opportunity to participate. I am now describing what you voted as a Member of Parliament during the crisis management period. You voted to take the 13th month's salary. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You voted in favour of taking away the 13th month pension under socialist governments. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Oh, dear!]] You personally voted to reduce the duration of the child. [[There's a constant murmur in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You personally said yes to paying health care. You voted for the property tax. You voted for the tuition. You voted in favour of the VAT increase and finally supported the Socialist Government in taking on the IMF loan. When it comes to crisis management, we must fear the country not us, but you, because in times of crisis, you have not given, you have only taken. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-120	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Ms Ágnes Vadai, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think, Prime Minister? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You have the floor.
u2021-04-26-121	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Prime Minister! I was amazed to hear your performance on Friday's Kossuth radio. We heard a cheerful, scrappy prime minister talking about how he's gonna drink beer on a terrace. A very lively, laughing Prime Minister spoke there, the Prime Minister of a country in which most people in the world die in proportion to the population of the virus. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: It's not true!]] The Prime Minister of a country where we do not know how many people are going to die today because they have not received adequate health care and where we cannot yet see what the government's post-Covid health strategy is. I understand you wanted to have a good time on Kossuth Radio with a public mic stand, but for God's sake, Prime Minister, there's nothing to celebrate. On Friday, you spoke of the fact that the number of dead was not the object of political competition, but you were the one who made this race, because not so long ago you said that the success of the defense could be measured in the number of lives saved. Well, let's measure it, let's see the results. Prime Minister! The fact is that most people died in Hungary in proportion to the population in the virus. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: No, it's not true!]] And not in the third wave, but throughout the entire epidemic. [[16.20]] And today, you can't even predict how many people died and how many suffer because they don't get proper health care. And Friday morning you didn't talk about how Hungarian health care would be better, and when oncological screening will be restarted in a country where cancer is leading to death. No! You said you were gonna sit out for a drink or a pint of beer. Okay, you like beer, we got that from the interview on Friday. In recent years, we have learned from the law and budget the hobbies of government members: football, hunting, bone hunting, pacal. Now, tell me, please, for us, who is your health minister who has to resign now? If it's you, it's fine with us.
u2021-04-26-122	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will give the floor to the Prime Minister for the answer. Here you go, Prime Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-04-26-123	If I understand correctly the question of the Member, she wants to know how I spend my days. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No!]] I would like to inform you that we have spent every day since the beginning of the crisis, until the last opening of the terrace, but we have spent every day saving the lives of Hungarian people. In order for hospitals to function, GPs to function, so there's a vaccine, and we can inoculate people. All our thoughts and moments were tied down by this. And I have to say that if you look at the rate of grafting, you can see that Hungary has dealt well with this task, because Hungary is in the first and second place in Europe in terms of vaccination rates. In the meantime, of course, we had to fight you, that's true, because you kept obstructing your defense: you made fakes, faked lies, and you tried to undermine your trust in health care. I must reject what you have just said: Hungarian health care supplies the patients, we have the best doctors, we have the best nurses, we have the best paramedics, we have the best paramedics, and they do excellent work, and they save the lives of everyone whose life can be saved at all. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No!]] We owe them credit, not accusations. You keep accusing people of health care, even though whoever you're talking to who's out of the hospital, everyone can tell you that they're just good, they're just compassion, they're just love, they're just help from the medical staff. I reject the slanders on your part. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-26-124	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A woman representing a one-minute rejoinder has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-125	Dear House, Prime Minister! We know your lines, you're lying all over the place. It would have been better if you had spent your time on the balcony of the Carmelite and didn't come into Parliament. You manipulate tables that Katalin Kariko had to correct. You presented a letter from your readers as a study. The only thing they forget is that there are people on this side who speak languages, and they don't need your sports reporter for foreign affairs to have a very shady language skills. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: Alas, alas, alas!]] We don't trust your oncologist minister to stop the cancer screening. And I'm sorry, Prime Minister, we don't trust you, and we don't believe you, because we see that football and soccer are more important to you than the health of Hungarians. I believe there are other cultists who fall for this bad talk. [[László Szászfalvi: Gyurcsány!]] But most Hungarians don't believe that anymore. And on Friday, you asked for respect and demand respect for the people. Then do it already, and not only to the living, but also to our dead. Thank you very much. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: He doesn't care about honoring the dead! It's a rare round of applause from the opposition. It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2021-04-26-126	A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-04-26-127	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank the congresswoman for her question. What I can tell you is that we'd be doing a lot better in defense if you weren't anti-vaccination. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Stop lying!]] You're the biggest threat to the defense today because you're anti-vaccination. This is also known from the fact that if one takes the decision that you have submitted here and with which you wanted to prevent the acceptance of the Chinese and Russian vaccine, the second signatory of this submission after Ferenc Gyurcsány was you, Madam Congresswoman. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Nine thousand people died in the country, no vaccine yet!]] I'm asking you not to interfere with the defense and to give up your anti-vaccination policy. [[A big round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-26-128	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Mrs Agnes Kunhalmi, I told you once that screaming is a nuance of beauty. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Let's finish this now.]] So let's just leave it at that, believe me, I'm keeping it up today. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: He wasn't sexist...]] Thank you very much. Dear House, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go. (Sándor Szabó takes his place in the notary seat. )
u2021-04-26-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister! I hope we agree that the national wealth belongs to the Hungarian people, and that it cannot be stolen for any reason. You have now launched an unprecedented attack on the exploitation of public wealth, the looting of people. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: Alas, alas!]] It's at least a thousand billion forints worth of wealth. They don't even bother to sell the public goods for money, so that some small money can go into the cash register, because we live in very difficult times. You are now planning to play for free the trust fund's remaining assets of the nation. In addition, these foundations will receive the founding rights from 2022, and from then on the state will no longer have any say in the future of the transferred values. The foundations will be able to do anything with wealth, even if you are replaced by voters in 2022. It is also very surprising that the creation of foundations is justified by unprecedented cynicism. To give an example: here is the creation of a land foundation for future generations, in which the interests of future generations are impertinently referred to, while they are not only trying to steal thousands of hectares of land and forests, but also taking over our traditional species of horses. [[There's a grumble from the ruling parties.]] You do not believe, Prime Minister, that these trust foundations and their curatoriums will guarantee the development of Hungarian higher education, the preservation of Hungarian culture or even the genetic wealth of our traditional horse species? [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: Yes, yes!]] I have one question, Prime Minister: are you willing to prevent the invasion of people's national wealth? Prime Minister, it's enough for me if you just answer yes or no.
u2021-04-26-130	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer is addressed to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-04-26-131	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The example you have brought here best shows why I can't agree with you. You set the example of the foundation of the future generation. This is a stud estate, in Mezőhegyes, privatized by your allies. You sold it from public property. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: Oops!]] We bought it back. So it sets an example of public wealth as a negative example in our case, where you sold the public wealth. [[László Szászfalvi: Discuss with Gyurcsány!]] You sold it, and we got it back. And to remind you once again of a mistake, in the case of the foundation of the future generation, for example, the land fortune cannot pass into foundation property, because it was also wanted by your allies, the former Communists, that legal entities could acquire land, which we prevented. So it won't be possible in the future either. I'm asking you, since you're asking me in such a provocative tone, please be kind and direct. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-26-132	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2021-04-26-133	Prime Minister, I would like to say before the stud estates that it is a harsh thing in itself that you will vote on trust foundations by a two-thirds majority. But that's unacceptable. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] And it's totally unacceptable that you give the board the founder's rights, plant them full of Fidesz soldiers, and then, if anyone falls out, they'll plant more Fidesz party soldiers in the curatorium, and whatever they can do with wealth, they can sell for tobacco, they can do anything! It's stealing people's money! And for the stud estates, all I can say is, obviously, it wasn't us, the LMP, who privatized it, but if someone privatizes it, at least they get some money, all the money gets into the state register. But you're not privatizing him, you're giving him to a charity for free. It's a shame, Prime Minister.
u2021-04-26-134	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister. [[16.30]]
u2021-04-26-135	Thank you, Mr. President. I am embarrassed because I must remind the congresswoman that she is constantly mistaken. So you're talking about something that isn't, or isn't. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] First of all, you are in a misunderstanding because the Hungarian government does not give private ownership of state universities. Secondly, the funds of the foundations can only be used for public purposes and educational activities. And to mention once again a privatization example: when we won the election in 2010 and formed a government, the first thing I had to do was go to Moscow, because it's your allies who are sitting with you now. [[To intervene:]] yes Yeah, yeah, yeah, they're sitting with a 25 percent stake in MOL in a company called Surgutnyeftyegaz. I had to get it back. So we started the government by first getting back 25 percent of MOL, which has become public property, and now we are not privatising it, like you, somewhere, but putting it in Hungarian universities. And that's okay. Thank you very much. [[Schmuck Erzsébet: Free. Interventions in opposition benches. A long applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-26-136	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio and Head of the Szabó Timea Group, representatives of the Dialogue, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is going on? It's an address. It's Szabó Timea's faction leader. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-137	Prime Minister, let's run this death thing again, because you don't seem to understand. In Hungary, 26 thousand people have died since the outbreak in total. It's the highest percentage of the population in the world, just so you understand. In Austria, 10,000 people died, 7 000 in Croatia, 740 in Norway and 900 in Australia, but less people died even in Poland, Romania, Bulgaria and Montenegro. What are you doing compared to that? He's laughing and he's drinking beer, and he's dreaming about how good it's gonna be to sit on the Carmelite terrace. When that happened, Prime Minister, you were supposed to say what you said last September, so that no one should worry, because anyone who gets sick will be cured, and if they don't, then the government will take responsibility. He literally said, "but first of all, me." [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among them: No!]] High mortality is closely linked to the fact that you have completely destroyed health care over the last ten years. In March alone, because of the new forced contracts, 5,500 doctors and nurses left health care. You yourself have recognised this in your own document on the Recovery Fund for EU money, which you have written for the Union. I will read it, just to make it clear:, Due to the number of people involved in the direct care of patients, the large number of people leaving the course, and the large number of people choosing the course, it is no longer considered sufficient to ensure safe care for patients. This was written by you. In other words, they acknowledged that they had not provided adequate health care. That is why so many people died in Hungary, most of them in proportion to the population in the world. Prime Minister, once again, I ask the question that my fellow Members have asked: who takes responsibility for Hungary's worst performance in the world? Are you Miklós Kásler? Thank you.
u2021-04-26-138	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-04-26-139	Thank you, Mr. President. I must repeat this; I apologise for this, but the truth is that, unfortunately, opposition representatives, left-wing representatives, are not telling the truth. If you look at the European Union register, I suggest that you do so, you will find comparative tables that will reveal exactly what is going on. Different countries keep their records on different principles. What you're talking about is the Hungarian register, where everyone who was infected at the moment of death has been reported dead in Covid's infection. That's not how other countries keep a record of the dead. He only records the people who died because of the Covid infection. This difference is corrected and eliminated by the European Union's register. So I have to say, it's a public record, you're not telling the truth, for some reason, behind which I'm making political calculations, you're saying it's false. The situation seems to be that Hungary is in the ninth place in the European comparison at the middle of the field, i.e. counting from the best position. That's the fact. That's what I can talk to you about. We can argue about that. Unfortunately, we can't talk about lies. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-26-140	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder for the woman in charge of the faction. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-141	The truth is, Prime Minister, you're lying, and you're doing this for political reasons, that's why. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] because he refuses to admit that you've dealt with anything in the last year but stealing, leading people around. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches. Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame on you!]] And by pissing off the opposition. They didn't do that in any other country. In terms of population mortality per million people, Hungary is the first to see the statistics of the European Union. [[György Balla: That's not true! You're lying! Dr. Bence of Rétvári: It's not like that!]] Both they and we are taking in everyone who died in Covid. What are you doing compared to that? He talks about everything. And speaking of fake news, Prime Minister, there's no greater fake news than you falsifying the vaccine effectiveness study. Katalin Kariko said you lied. That's the biggest shame! They're doing everything they can to keep their power: stealing, lying, cheating, but we're gonna put an end to this. [[Moore in the pro-government benches. Interview from KDNP: Gyurcsány!]]
u2021-04-26-142	Mrs. Freckles! Personality doesn't lead to anything, it's just a quality or a lack of quality. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The question that the congresswoman asked me, what we are doing, what I am doing personally, I can tell you that we are working hard to make sure that there is enough vaccine; we will distribute the vaccines we have acquired in Hungary properly and get them to the place where they can give them to people. That's what we do every day. Except in times of war, such a logistics operation is almost never required by a country. Thanks to the police, thanks to the loaders at the factory, warehouse, workers, administrative experts, doctors, for this logistics operation, which is a half-war logistics operation, I believe is also successful by European standards. The only thing that helps against death and infection is vaccination against the virus. But you're against vaccination. Here's your fellow representative, who signed the petition against the Russian vaccine, and then got himself vaccinated with a Russian vaccine. That tells us a lot about you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-26-144	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gyula Budai, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question, who can stand behind a blog called the Devil's Lawyer? Honourable Congressman, I'll inform you that... [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State is here, and I apologize. Congressman Gyula Budai has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-145	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, The police questioned Ferenc Gyurcsány's tax fraud, criminal lawyer, Csaba Czeglédy, as a suspect in a blackmail case for those who appeared on the blog. According to the press report, the investigators informed Czeglédy that the manager of the Facebook site called the lawyer of the Devil, focusing on the area of Győr-Sopron county, asked for advertisements at the local elections in 2019, the cost of which was paid from his bank account. To my question, the Attorney General confirmed that Czeglédy was being questioned for the offence of the criminal abuse of sensitive data as a six-order accomplice of the investigating authority and for the misuse of personal data as a three-order accomplice. The Metropolitan Attorney General has confirmed that a request for legal aid has been made to both the Swiss and US judicial authorities, since the investigators found the blog server in the USA and the Swiss bank account from which Facebook's advertised posts were paid. Although Czeglédy denies the accusations, everyone on Facebook can advertise the contents of an official page only by a person who is the administrator of that site with authority and, moreover, must save the credit card details to be debited. This is how the investigators found out that the payment was made from a credit card linked to Csaba Czeglédy in the event of a blog advert by the Devil. So the authorities have clearly stated that the money trail leads to Ferenc Gyurcsány's tax fraud, criminal lawyer. On the basis of the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State who is behind the blog, the lawyer of the Devil. Thank you very much. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's benches. Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[16.40]]
u2021-04-26-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Pál Völner. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As Mr President said, from the information provided by the prosecutor, the reasoned suspicion communicated is based on evidence obtained during the investigation, such as testimony and documents, the findings concerning the financial operation subject to proceedings are based on data provided as a result of the fulfilment of international criminal assistance requested by another State. Cooperation in criminal matters with other States is governed by the bilateral and multilateral international treaties and the International Law on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. The Hungarian judicial authority may initiate any procedural action under the Law of Criminal Procedure in a request for procedural assistance. In addition, the bilateral or multilateral agreements between Hungary and the United States and Switzerland fully ensure that swift and direct procedural assistance between the parties can be implemented, which can contribute as soon as possible to the discovery of the truth in this criminal case of Csaba Czeglédy. The question remains, of course, why Ferenc Gyurcsány and his party are so protective of a tax fraud lawyer, why there are several tens of millions of friendly loan agreements between the company of Czeglédy and the companies of Gyurcsány, signed at that time by Klá Dobrev, whose origin was also unclear. If people were damaged, the damage might have to be compensated, but we know that this did not happen, and they didn't do it before 2010. We can think of János Zuschlag, Miklós Hagyó, Gábor Simon, the Sukoro cases, and continue the line: Austrian bank safes, Swiss accounts, gold nuggets, currency. This is today's left, unfortunately. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-148	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Gyula Budai. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-149	Dear Secretary of State, According to Csaba Czeglédy's criminal record, more than a kilogram of gold was seized from Csaba Czeglédy in a secret safe in Austria, and now a secret Swiss bank account has been found, about which Csaba Czeglédy funded the advertisements of the blog called the lawyer of the Devil. And then there's Gábor Simon, former president of the election of MSZP's secret Austrian account, where hundreds of millions of forints of party money were hidden. Secret safes, secret Swiss bank accounts, hundreds of millions hidden in Austria, that's what characterizes the left today. In addition, the DK launches Gyurcsány's tax fraud lawyer at the pre-elections in Saturday, the Csaba Czeglédy who stole 6.3 billion forints. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Deputy Minister, the Secretary of State. Here you go. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]]
u2021-04-26-151	Another link in the Czeglédy case, honourable Members. László Varju recently stated that he was confident that the court would give a fair verdict in which he was accused of insubordination and aggravated assault in connection with the injury caused by the struggle at the TV headquarters. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: That's another answer!]] Congressman appreciates as a disturbing circumstance that his original lawyer, Csaba Czeglédy, also a DK politician, has been suspended by the Bar Association, so he can only assist him in the trial as a simple civilian. Let us send a message to Congressman Varju that there are a lot of honest lawyers in this profession who are not accused in various court proceedings, perhaps you could choose one of them. The attachment of the left to Czeglédy reminds us of the old saying: Comrade, help those who are caught! But if you're thinking about Facebook entries, you might also remember that a liar can be caught before a lame dog. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-152	Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Yes or no? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-26-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, In December you said that tao is a success story and that there is no sport without dreams. Then, in March, the terrifying reality met: at the Hungarian European Championship, our U21 football team fell out with zero points, three defeats, a 2:11 score difference, and over the past ten years, we spent hundreds of billions of HUF on taxpayers' money to teach young people to play football. As you can see, the result of this is zero and 2:11 respectively. So the use of tao money is not a success story, but a horror story. In the NB I, 60 percent of the players now play abroad, they take the place away from Hungarian talent, and you even allow them to pay reduced taxes up to HUF 500 million a year. Well, the big money, the small soccer phenomenon irritates the Hungarian people, and unfortunately, Prime Minister, I must tell you that the consultants of Mihály Takács are deceiving you, and the Hungarian people are being robbed; because if that were not so, if that were not so, would there be money for children's classes in the Marcal hospital and for the promised CT equipment, Mr. Moring? With all due respect, Prime Minister, are you satisfied with the replacement performance of football clubs? Yes or no? And if not, are you willing to hold those who have squandered billions of taxpayers in vain? Let's wait for an honorary answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-26-154	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-04-26-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am at the disposal of Mr. Congressman and anyone else after my working hours, which is not such a long time to talk about anything, including the matters of Hungarian football. I would like to make it clear that this is the meeting room of the Hungarian Parliament, where there are responsibilities [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] So it's worth raising a serious issue, and it's worth serious consideration. I would like to make it clear that for any sport, it does not matter whether it is waterball, fencing, lawnball, badminton or football, that no representative or government bears any responsibility for the effectiveness of any sport, unless you are an athlete, because the principle of organising Hungarian sports is that the professional associations of sports bear responsibility for the professional issues of sports. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] The government is helping all sports. [[A statement from Jobbik: What about the Tennis Alliance?!]] Eight years ago, we had signed a sports development agreement with 16 sports, and if the Olympics had taken place, we would have concluded these for another 8-12 years this year. Due to the delay of the Olympics, and after the Olympics, we will sit down again with all the sports associations, we will settle with everyone, we will arrange grants for clear goals, and we wish that not only the Hungarian sport, but the replacements behind it, from which the academic world comes in all sports, will provide cultural sports opportunities for as many young Hungarians as possible. That's our goal. That's our responsibility. Sports associations are responsible for the effectiveness of certain sports disciplines, which we cannot assume, personally, neither the government nor the parliament. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-156	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Ádám Steinmetz. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-157	Mr. Prime Minister, Allow me, however, to thank you for your efforts towards sport and sports life, regardless of whether you are now putting this task on the sports union. Hungarian taxpayers strongly support sport, but let us also make it clear that much money did not help football, but, on the contrary, corrupted it. Prime Minister, despite all your efforts, there will be a society that despises football in a society that loves football. Prime Minister, if you do not change this system, if you do not hold the prodigal boys accountable, if you do not hold those who, as you have said, see not the fantastic talent of athletes, but only the opportunity to earn money, then, please, the Hungarian sport will collapse. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Who is responsible?]] And who is responsible for this? That's what I'm asking. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I ask you, are you willing to change it, or are you going to expect that from the new government? Trust me, this is not gonna stop. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-26-158	I'll give the floor to the Prime Minister for rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister. [[16.50]]
u2021-04-26-159	I would also like to comment on your personal points, honourable Member, but I am keeping this to myself in the absence of time, but rather I take your question seriously, which concerns the serious professional problem of whether the Hungarian government should primarily cultivate the support of sports through national associations or through clubs. 11 years ago, I faced this question as a government issue. I consulted everyone, clubs and professional associations, and then we were told that the Hungarian general position was that the Hungarian government should not have direct support contact with the clubs, even if it occurs at such times, so should not be the principle of distribution of money. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Instead, the principle of money distribution should be that this should be done through the sports professional associations. We sometimes advertise development programmes to larger clubs, but once again, the principle of allocating money for sport, so that the budget gives this to the sports associations, that is the principle, and then they distribute it as they see fit and desirable in terms of efficiency. I suggest we not change this system. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-160	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr. István Simicskó, Member of the KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "Does the left ever change? Why are left-wing city leaders selling the local government's assets again? It's an address. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor. [[Some Members leave the Chamber.]]
u2021-04-26-161	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Father Kolping put it this way in the 19th century. In the century, it is very important to recognize the problems of his own age and to remedy them. That's what he asked God for. This is particularly important today, during the pandemic. Obviously, the Hungarian government will act and act accordingly, and will continue to do so in the future, recognise the problems, try to remedy them, acquire protective equipment, obtain vaccinations, proceed to a high level on the basis of a vaccination plan, vaccination is at the forefront of Europe. In contrast, what does the left recognize? It creates and generates constant uncertainty about vaccinations, manufactures chamomuvides, does bitcoin mining, while constantly attacking and criticizing the government's defensive activities. But, fellow Members, what else do we see? What we see is that certain left-wing mayors are either NewBuda or VIII. in the district, like the III. In the district, they also want to sell important assets for the municipality. This is the case in NewBuda, among other things, they want to sell the Gellért Hill villa, the former marriage hall in Gellért Square, the Albertfalva market, and it is a long line of properties they want to sell. What is the reason for this, fellow Members? What helps us to discern, to understand? I've got the writing of a British scientist, the great father of the cemetery, Tony Buzan, who said that the right hemisphere of the human brain is responsible for human emotions, solidarity, empathy, assistance, and critical remarks on the left, pragmatic, practical, numerical, financial techniques. Is that the reason why certain left-wing mayors act like this, their left hemisphere works, and they've given their heads to the sale and the acquisition of wealth? I ask you, Minister, how do you see the thesis and position of left-wing mayors on municipal property? Thank you in advance for your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-04-26-163	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear Parliament, First, Mr. Fraction Manager mentioned the case of protection against the epidemic. Annex XI is amended as follows: Unfortunately, the district mayor was one of those who called attention at a separate press conference to the fact that certain vaccines would not be used by people. So this anti-vaccination, which is characteristic of the left, was also manifested at the municipal level. In the meantime, however, we find that the mayor's rights duly guaranteed in the extraordinary legal order are often used by local government leaders, including those of Section XI. The district head of the district is also to dispose of and sell real estate which, in the past, had been an important revenue for the municipalities. While we are discussing with other left-wing mayors that this is highly desirable in the case of housing properties, and it is worth moving beyond what has already been done, and there are district leaders who do not share our position in this, it seems that if serious revenues can be obtained from the exploitation of real estate, which is a fixed income for the municipality, they already share the government's opinion, and they even go far beyond it, and they are sold even if the municipality loses regular revenues. Indeed, we find that in districts including XI. a district, where, after a multi-annual or even a decade-long right-wing government management, billions remained in the register, and after the change of head of government in 19 these amounts were available, and now there is a loss of assets without any clear concepts. We hope that the voters will appreciate this. What is very dangerous to municipalities and causes serious damage would lead to bankruptcy in the country. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-164	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. István Simicskó Group Leader is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-165	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, I believe that this is not a spontaneous privatization on the left before the change of regime, it is already a conscious and targeted sale, which has been prepared for certain left-wing municipalities; it is a kind of XXI. There is a risk of an initial capital build-up in the first century. It seems to me that this is not what the left-wing city leaders were empowered to do in the municipal elections in 2019. So in this way, I ask the Government that at least what means the possible sale of this part of the municipal property with the involvement of people at all means the consultation and the preservation of the property for the community, in any case, intervene there and protect the assets of the municipality of Newbuda of this value. Obviously, there is something different about municipal rentals, since it is important for the tenant to have the opportunity to buy the apartment, but this is much more than selling the municipal dwellings. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-04-26-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear Parliament, We trust that the public has power, too, the XI. The district's real estate sale plans were now discussed in the Parliament, but the XI. a major debate is taking place both in the district and in Budapest. What we can continue to suggest to local government leaders is that while it is right for tenants to become owners when we talk about real estate for the purpose of housing, the sale and disposal of real estate which contributes to the operation of the municipality by providing significant revenue is highly considered and even contraindicated. We hope that this statement by the Head of the Group, who is taking part in the public debate, will also contribute to the fact that a municipality, in particular its head, at a time when he alone can decide without the body of representatives, will consider that these valuable assets, which in the long term can contribute to the functioning, survival and revenue of the municipality, should be squandered, or kept better. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Some Members leave the Chamber.]]
u2021-04-26-168	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Nothing is sacred to you anymore! ? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Due to his absence, Minister Bence Rétvári appointed Deputy Minister, State Secretary. I respectfully ask... [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély nods.]] Thank you very much. The congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, You should shoot more, read your own Fundamental Law, because you don't seem to know it. Pursuant to Article X (2) of the Fundamental Law, the State is not entitled to decide on scientific truth, scientific research is assessed solely by the researchers of science. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[17.00]] The basic principle of research on medicinal products is that all relevant circumstances cannot be selected from the information on the basis of which the effects are presented. On Sunday, a table of diseases and deaths following the use of coronal virus vaccines in Hungary was published on the government's website. Even Katalin Karikó needed to respond to this because a lot of people came to him from home. What we can see is that we do not understand why this was necessary now, Mr Secretary of State. You constantly accuse the left, the opposition representatives, that certain vaccines are being harassed by the Hungarian population. What did you guys do this weekend? Why was that necessary now, Mr. Secretary? You are constantly beating your breasts about how many people register every day and how much grafting is in Hungary. He'd try it on the side of the opposition, because if we're wearing hats, the problem is that we're not wearing hats and that, because you keep saying we're anti-vaccinations. The reason we put our posts out there is that we have been given vaccination because we want to encourage people to take vaccination, because one of the successes of the epidemic is that vaccinations are given. And what do you do? If we're doing this, that's the problem. In fact, I have to assume that your biggest problem is that left-wing politicians are at all putting themselves out. But, Honourable Secretary of State, tell me why this was necessary to dissuade the Hungarian electorate: those who have not registered can no longer decide who to believe. Secretary of State, why did you do this? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2021-04-26-170	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-171	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, It takes a lot of imagination to believe what you said. You said you'd make pro-vaccination statements. Let me read the pro-vacation statement of the party president of Bertalan Tóth:. The Chinese vaccine is a vaccine that is completely untested and unconfirmed by professionals. I've got a long list. Gergely Arató:. We do not ask for a vaccine that has not been tested by European professionals, because the Hungarian professional is not a European professional, and according to the news, their effectiveness is less than 50 percent. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Such and similar manifestations: human experimentation, outdated technique vaccine, waste of money, and I wouldn't give it to myself even if it was approved, or even proud that it wasn't registered. So, honourable Member, you are constantly attacking vaccines from all directions, because obviously you are hoping for political benefits if the epidemic goes on. Why is it useful to learn about this chart? This is not a scientific article, honourable Member, but simply a table, the facts, the reality, all its lines are real, no one has claimed or can say that either number would not be real. Why you had to put this out, but I'm very happy to answer you. It had to be put out to show the Hungarian people that all vaccines are safe and all vaccines are effective, and to deny your left-wing politician that it is better to have an infection than to inject certain vaccines. This table is exactly the rebuttal of your anti-vaccination rhetoric, that every vaccine, whatever it is offered to people, each vaccine is capable of protecting us from the virus, and to minimise the risk of being caught or possibly having more serious consequences for the virus. We ask you that if you really think for one second that the Hungarian people should give you any vaccination, then you should withdraw that parliamentary decision. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Voted down...]] which expressis verbis writes that Chinese and Russian vaccines should not be authorised in Hungary. This is the one step you take, Congresswoman, to authenticate every sentence you've said here. But he won't do it, so he's uncredited, because he won't withdraw his own anti-vaccination decision here in Parliament. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-04-26-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder belongs to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-04-26-173	Secretary of State, I was first on TV, even before you, who said I'd give myself the Russian vaccine if I had the Russian vaccine, because everything is better than the disease, the ventilator, and the death. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Then take it back.]] That's what Agnes Kunhalmi kept saying. And don't lie to me now. Mr. Secretary, why do you want people to believe that Western vaccines are less good? [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: We don't want you to believe that.]] That's what this chart suggested. Who was the Pfizer vaccine given to? Old, sick people, elderly people, health workers, BM workers, hang on, for mothers, for pregnant mothers. And who are we going to hand it to now? For 16-18-year-olds. Then they don't want to plant uncertainty in people now that the Western vaccine is worse now, because Gulyás Gergely personally said Eastern vaccines are better than Western vaccines! That's what Katalin Karikó and the profession want to disprove. The profession knows, Mr. Secretary. And now, when you're talking about you being the big pro-vaccinations, you're spreading false news, it's one of the worst fake news in the entire epidemic, which posted a spreadsheet on the official kormany.hu website at the end of the week! Mr. Secretary, I want you to look at yourself in the mirror at least once and get inside yourselves and stop pissing people off, because that's no use fighting the plague. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Time's up a little bit.]]
u2021-04-26-174	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-175	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Your one and a half minutes ago, it was a typical anti-vaccination speech that took away an epidemic. The government has put out statistics that show that every vaccine protects against the disease. And what are you doing? He calls to Parliament and says, well, well, people, one vaccine is more dangerous than the other. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: He didn't say that, come on!]] It turns out the exact, clear numbers the government puts out to reassure people that each vaccine is safe. On the other hand, you are also using this to drive people against vaccines, honourable Member. Knock it off! When we finally have a series of numbers that we can all be proud of, we are all Hungarians, and we can also be proud that 73 percent of registered people have received these vaccines, and we want more people to register and 100 percent of all registered people to receive them. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Right-wing people do not register!]] then don't turn the completely clear numbers of this table. We know that you have problems with spelling, not with mathematics too, honourable Member. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: How naughty!]] Don't turn it, and don't tell me these are high numbers, because they're low numbers. These prove that the vaccinations will improve the safety of the Hungarian people. Don't use this as an anti-vaccination politician to keep people tuned against any of the vaccines. This shows that Hungarian vaccinations are safe. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]] (Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat) Replaced by Attila Móring József.)
u2021-04-26-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It's 5:07 p.m., and we're at the end of Question Time. Discussions are now taking place between Commission reports and the draft amendments. I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect that the security rules for the pandemic situation continue to be respected in the Chamber. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to urban planning and the discussion of the summary amendment follow up. Government referral T/15397. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. For the first time in the debate, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Mr. Congressman, The time frame is 15 minutes. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-26-177	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed T/15397 amending certain laws relating to urban planning. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. pursuant to Rule 21 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted by 21 votes to six, with no abstentions. Dear House, The main purpose of the bill before us is to ensure that, while maintaining the current powers of the local authorities, transparent and modern regulations for the development of settlements and settlements based on digitalisation are put in place. The amendment also strengthens the requirement for legal certainty, as investors, construction families, designers and regulatory professionals can obtain up-to-date, readily accessible transparent digital building parameters for the properties concerned. According to the bill, the number of development and settlement documents to be prepared by municipalities will be streamlined, and a development and settlement type plan will be prepared per settlement. [[17.10]] Accordingly, the urban development concept and the integrated urban development strategy are replaced by the urban development plan and the urban planning instruments are replaced by the settlement planning plan. The construction plan will be implemented, but local construction regulations will remain and will be strengthened. It should be noted that in the case of rural settlements, the local construction regulations will be considered as the settlement plan, and in the capital city the settlement rules, district building regulations and special local construction regulations adopted by the Metropolitan Assembly, for example, will constitute the settlement plan for the Danube coast or the City Park together. It is also important to point out that the regulatory elements contained in the settlement structure plan do not cease to exist, but are transferred to the local construction regulations. This strengthens their role, as the structural plan has been adopted by a municipal decision, which cannot therefore be regarded as a law, whereas the local construction code is a municipal regulation, i.e. a law which will be able to establish the rights and obligations of the parties concerned. Together, the urban development plan and the settlement planning plan can be called a settlement plan, as they are designed and modified with respect to each other and in harmony with each other. By setting minimum content requirements for settlement plans, it will be possible to prepare simplified plans for professional reasons, in particular in municipalities and small towns. This is precisely one of the main reasons for the amendment of the law, namely that small settlements can also draw up a much simpler plan than today, which could result in significant administrative burden reductions for them. Dear Parliament, It should be stressed that, by providing an appropriate transitional period, the coordination of development and settlement plans, the provision of statutory data and the publication of agreed plans will become uniform and digital. Therefore, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-26-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully ask Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, that he wishes to speak now. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: No.]] No. I would like to inform you, Mr Secretary of State, that you will have a 15-minute deadline for closing. Ladies and gentlemen, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-04-26-179	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would have been delighted if the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee had mentioned at least one word to Dr. Gyula Bándi, Commissioner of Fundamental Rights, a substitute for protecting the interests of future generations, which he had done in connection with this bill. He stated that this law, in its present form, is against the law, because it removes rights from local governments and places them at the central government level without broad social and other professional debates. We have already drawn attention in the general debate to the fact that this proposal is not good for anything but to repeatedly undermine the powers of the municipalities. It's not the first time we've talked about how you've been interfering with local construction regulations. They have brought a fantastic institution such as the high-ranking state investment, which means that if an area is designated for this, they simply overwrite the construction rules, and we can get to the point where concrete monstrums on the shore of Lake Balaton, for example, can be made, and we can get to the point of doubling the height of the building, perhaps raising the built-in surface and reducing the green surface. But you don't talk about it, because nothing else is important to you, just the expropriation and exploitation of the Hungarian state, the public's wealth, and also the filling of oligarchs and buddies with these properties. I would therefore really like to know how you feel about drawing attention to Gyula Bándi and why we are not talking about it here in Parliament. I very much hope that Mr Secretary of State will join the debate and answer this question. Because the goal of all of us, all 199 Members, is to represent the Hungarian people, which is what we took the oath for. But it's not important to you. What is important is that, with the last steps, these areas are expropriated and, I quote, a defining novum, that small settlements can provide simplified urban planning tools. Is that the whole point of this legislation? Well, no! The point of the legislation is that you are once again taking power from the municipalities, that you will tell us what can and cannot be built in that settlement. Oh, this is gonna be great for you guys in the coming years? Well, they're very wrong. In all cases, the local authorities, the representative bodies elected in local democracy, should have the task and power to determine what is being built and what is being built in the next period, and you should not speak or interfere with what is being built in that settlement. This is what this legislation aims to do. On the shore of Lake Balaton the building rules are constantly being played out by the Fidesz mayors, see Tihany. It's all amazing! The municipality sells an area for 750 million HUF to build a 120-bedroom luxury hotel there. Once again, you're going to give a big deal about nature conservation permits, you don't even need environmental permits, so you can build ports on the shores of Lake Balaton. That's what we should be talking about, how we got to this point, that Balaton, in the case of our national treasure, doesn't matter to you either, that there are environmental permits, sludge testing, flow tests, and without them, the government will issue permits, water rights permits. Did we make it this far? ! Well, the local planning tools should also be about this, as it is important that the local people, locally elected officials, mayors and representative bodies in all the settlements of Hungary can decide what is being built in that settlement. So I would like to ask you very nicely, Mr Secretary of State, to answer what you think about drawing attention to Gyula Bándi. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. László Keresztes applauds Lóran.]]
u2021-04-26-180	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, State Secretary Balázs Orbán asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-181	[[Spreading his hand:]] Well!
u2021-04-26-182	But if it was an accident, no problem.
u2021-04-26-183	No, no, very good. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I don't know, for Members of Parliament who are preparing for political careers, although not everyone who is a Member of Parliament is preparing for political careers, I think they say, and we also say to each other that he is breaking up his speech. So it's too professional. It occurred to me, listening to you, that you have not made this mistake, that you have not been able to overstep your speech. The problem begins about the fact that your representatives did not attend the Legislative Committee meeting. You do not know what happened at the meeting of the TAB, honourable Member. In fact, at the TAB's meeting, the point on which Vice-President Gyula Bándi's proposals were discussed and, in fact, went into the TAB's amending proposals without debate. So, I think, from now on, it may be possible to argue on a political basis, but it cannot be on a fact-based basis. Two amendments are included in the proposal. If you would like to know later, the 4th and 6th amendment points were at the TAB. On the one hand, in the future, the rules on strategic environmental assessment must continue to be complied with in the preparation and modification of settlement plans and, on the other hand, the establishment of the territorial scope of settlement matching requirements remains with the municipality. Point 3 is a problem of coherence and can be treated in a government decree. What you're saying... The problem is what the Prime Minister said a few hours ago: if we are not on the same facts, we cannot have a professional debate on this otherwise important issue. I think this is an important bill, because it contains simplification, and it contains an important electronicisation in the context of administrative powers for people living in small towns, which we always support in general, and does not generate a party political debate. Let me just say one thing to you. If what you claim to be true is that it affects the powers of the local authorities in any way, then this bill should amend the Act of 2011 on Local Governments in Hungary 13. § (1) (1) (1) because local public affairs are the municipal development and settlement planning, the adoption of development and settlement documents is not a municipal task that can be transferred from the competence of the body. [[17.20]] In view of the fact that the bill does not affect this point in any way, it cannot therefore be considered by definition, by legislative and professional rules, that it affects the competence of local authorities in any way. We also believe that an environmental impact assessment is important, and we also believe that it is important that municipal powers remain in the context of the local settlement image. But I'm sorry, because you want to make political hysteria out of all these matters, we want to go further within the framework of digitalisation, simplification and normal legislation. My concern, honourable Member, is that this type of speech and the omission that Jobbik's representatives do not take part in the meeting of the Legislative Committee make this important work impossible for the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker was Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group of the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2021-04-26-185	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The fact is that this bill is not professional, but politically motivated, and in agreement with my fellow Member, I can say that it reduces the leeway of local governments in many respects by aiming at your political intentions. We have said this in detail in the general debate, and we have laid the foundations for our statements in detail, and you have not been able to rebut them in substance. I can continue to say that the LMP faction continues to reject any bill that reduces the leeway of municipalities in this way, and we will, of course, vote against this. At the same time, allow a slight deviation from this subject, although not significant. This bill has a thousand ties to the rights of local governments, to the local government. Therefore, I think that we must remember, we must remember, that in the past period there has been a very serious loss to the Hungarian local government. We read that László Köteles, who was the mayor of Komlóska for 25 years, died on April 16, only at the age of 48. In 1994, he was elected mayor, then the youngest Hungarian mayor, only at the age of 21 he was given the privilege of being mayor of a small settlement. We can tell you that at that time he was assigned to run a small village in an extremely difficult situation, and during the 25 years that he had served as an honor, he managed to set this small settlement on a growing path. And we can say that in many ways Komlóska's settlement could become a national model, and in some respects even a tourist attraction. And we can also say that László Köteles was committed not only to his home village, but also to the difficult situation of the Hungarian countryside in general, and especially to the better situation of small settlements, he fought effectively, successfully and respectably. Several very important national movements, national initiatives, such as when they stood up for small-town post offices. This movement, this operation, has been linked to hundreds of small settlements. With the self-sustaining eco-falu model in Hopska, the Hungarian village renewal award was also won in 2013, and in 2014 they were able to receive the European village renewal award in Switzerland. In 2018, László Köteles was also a candidate for the LMP Parliamentary Assembly on behalf of the Association of the May Other Political and New Beginning Party. From here, on behalf of myself and my group, I would like to express my condolences to the family of László Köteles, who died, and I can say that God rests the mayor, and thank you very much for all the work that he has done not only for the settlement of Komlóska but also for the Hungarian small settlements. In agreement with you, I think that László Köteles deserves this recognition for what he has done. I think that this is not a political issue, and we can agree deeply that the work of László Köteles should be recognised. I'd like to talk to you about one more thing about the bill. A number of other amendments have been tabled in the Legislative Committee, and I would like to refer here to a positive development in addition to the fact that we are fighting with all our might against efforts, as I have already mentioned, to reduce the room for manoeuvre of local governments, and we will vote against this proposal. At the same time, an amendment was tabled by Mr Simicskó, a Member of the LMP in the autumn of 2019, Mr Kreitler-Sas Máté LMP in NewBuda. At that time, Mr President, in agreement with the civil society, Mr President, he proposed that the Hamzsabég promenade should be officially a green area, so that the main road rating in the territorial development documents should be deleted. I understand that this proposal was supported by the entire body of representatives in the autumn of 2019, so the body agreed on this, regardless of political colour. And it is true that, after a year and a half, this amendment comes before the Parliament, but I think that this is certainly a successful step, at least we regard it as a success for the local organisation of the LMP and for local civilians. We therefore welcome the fact that this way the Hamzsabégi promenade will be officially a green area not only in terms of its real function, but also in terms of official classification. We're definitely happy for you. We would also like to symbolically express this with a vote, so we have asked for this point to be put to a separate vote. In addition, the LMP parliamentary group will vote against the bill itself. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-26-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I think it was appropriate that you mentioned Mayor László Köteles, who, as a small addition, also had outstanding charitable activities in the church, but I could say that his mate was thinner. God rest his soul. The next speaker from KDNP was Mr István Simicskó, Head of Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2021-04-26-187	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Crusade Leader has already pretty much given me the reason for my comment. Indeed, I asked for the floor here in Parliament today because I would like to draw attention to an important New Buda case and thank you for the government's openness and support, because indeed an important aspect has been included in the bill, which has been modified on the basis of these aspects, which is of particular importance for the people of New Buda, especially for the people on the Hamzsabégi road and the promenade. I was contacted at my host hour and in other forums both orally and in writing, and I have discussed with the people there on several occasions. An association has also been set up in order to transform the former classification of the transport zone into a green area zone. Citizens at the track are the creators and activists of the Living Environment Association, who have informed us on several occasions what their ideas and expectations are. I think it is very important that the people of NewBuda should be represented properly, and, as a Member of the Parliament of Újbuda, I have repeatedly spoken in recent times to improve their quality of life and their life opportunities, to do everything for this, and not to forget who gave us the trust and opportunity. Everyone is obviously representing their own district, trying to act in the best interests of the people who live there. That's right, and that's what I've been trying to do for the last 23 years. There's a lot of results behind us. Újbuda is an extremely dynamically developing district, the western gate of the capital. It is important to maintain a liveable and family-friendly atmosphere in the district. It is important that developments are about them, about the people of NewBuda, and it is important that the questions, the problems that they raise, are represented in the right way, and that we make our decision with a calm conscience. Obviously, it is fortunate that a development meets the will and will of the people who live there, and they also feel that it is theirs. There are many interests, but let us try to find a compromise between them that creates an acceptable and viable environment for everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, CXXXIX 2018 Act No. 2, Annex 2 to the Regional Planning Plan for Hungary and certain priority regions contains the country's structural plan, and Annex 7 to the Act contains the spatial planning plan for the agglomeration in Budapest, which envisaged road improvements on the trail of Hamzsabégi út. We have managed to change this, because by reclassifying it, and the government has understood the significance of this, and it is really very respectable, this reclassification is happening. We're going to vote on this this this week. This is a very important thing, since this part of the area is being classified as a green zone, which is a guarantee and an opportunity for people living there to keep that part of the green zone, that park ensemble and the opportunity to play sports. I feel that this is a very important thing for all of us. [[17 .30]] I have discussed several times with Minister Gergely Gulyás, who has always been open to the intention of understanding this problem, and I am pleased that this process finally seems to be resolved in this way. I hope that this joy will be for everyone, especially for the people who live there. They also had a successful local initiative, I have to say, and I see that we are working together to protect the green area of Hamzsabégi út and the green area. The government has listened to the request and takes into account the views of the New Buda people, their request and their position. The bill will be amended, and the government will do everything in the future to develop a high-quality park near Hamzsabégi út, which will serve the needs of people in the area. I would just like to thank Minister Gergely Gulyás, thank the Secretary of State for his positive attitude, for the work of the Legislative Committee and for everyone who has understood and will support this request. I trust that we will be able to pass a successful vote in the coming days. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-26-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I am speaking again to Mrs Anita Kőrösi from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-189	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I maintain that this draft legislation is not for professional purposes, but for clearly political purposes. Article 76 However, it is very important that the implementation of the Water Beach Control Plan in the Ministerial Decree is also a measure which is not agreed, supported by professional support and which undermines the powers of local authorities. This perfectly fits into the policy you have conducted along Lake Balaton. The waterfront rehabilitation plans have been discussed with the municipalities for years. Yes, more than 40 municipalities need to be consulted, not at all, it's a big task. But we have come to the point where you no longer want to consult with anyone, but what the Minister will think will be here in the waterfront rehabilitation plan and in the waterfront control plan. This is very, very bad for the processes on the shore of Lake Balaton, because, you know, Lake Balaton belongs to everyone. If the Lake Balaton belongs to everyone, because it is a public treasure, it means that people must have access to the shores of Lake Balaton. But if you take this regulatory plan out of the hands of the municipalities, then we have come to what happens to Club Aliga, that on a beach, which is still a coast line under the TNM regulation, there are 16 plots of land on the waterfront right there. This means that during the previous period, while the municipality was a candidate for this area and could have formed a free-to-coast coastal lane there, there will now be 16 apartment houses lined up in a row. You will give your name to this when this draft legislation will be adopted tomorrow, and we will have to say no to that. What I do not understand is that you, who have sworn to serve the interests of the Hungarian people and the Hungarian nation is important, then how you can allow and how you can give your consent to the parceling of 16 sites directly on the shore of Lake Balaton. If you adopt this legislation, then the municipalities will be deprived of the power to lay down local construction regulations, which you will lay down by regulation. Even though they say that's not what's in the law, we know your legislation: we always have to look at what's behind the lines. Well, that's what's behind the lines, how they can even better allow the government to tell us at the regulation level in each area what's going to be built. This is absolutely outrageous! You should have listened to the local governments, conducted a wide-ranging professional and social debate, but you failed to do so, and you are going against the Hungarian people and against the local authorities. This law is unacceptable and, of course, we will not support it tomorrow. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-04-26-190	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group, has also asked for another word. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2021-04-26-191	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am sorry to say this again, but Mr Simicskó's speech moved me to ask a question. It is very welcome, I have already mentioned that a year and a half after LMP's local motion, but this amendment is finally being implemented, it is welcome. The Member spoke about the importance of protecting green areas. I would like to ask your position on the matter that there is a planned project, the Ferencváros-Kelenföld track expansion project, which would result in the cut-off of a thousand trees. What is your position on this? Similarly, LMP has already stated at local level that it is necessary for the government to review this project. Again, this track development project would mean cutting down thousands of trees, and the very strong position of our local colleagues is that the implementation of such a project in such a densely populated area is unacceptable. That is why it would be very important for the government to consider this development project, but it would obviously be a guide if we could get to know the Member's opinion on this. Thank you.
u2021-04-26-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Congressman István Simicskó has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-193	Thank you very much. Although interrogation usually takes place with regard to immediate questions and interpellations, I was a minister, then they asked quite a lot of questions. Obviously, it's an unusual genre, but I'd be happy to answer. We Christian Democrats have always been, and will be, to preserve the created world for our children, our grandchildren, so that this planet, this Earth, can be enjoyed as long as possible by humans and mankind as a whole. Therefore, every tree cut is obviously an important decision, and the capital must also develop, and our way of life changes. Changes are part of our lives. I'm sure when you cut down a tree, you always have to plant at least one tree instead of two. So what I am saying, my general position, is that we are indeed responsible for the values that God has entrusted us, and we must protect that. It is important to have sustainable development, and that includes, yes, protecting and protecting the green environment. So I don't know exactly all the details and all the elements of the project, and obviously you're going to have to ask the relevant government figure about it, if you want to be informed about it, I can give you my opinion in general. Yeah, I'm a nature-loving person myself, I go to the woods a lot, my family and I go hiking, we run, and the rest, we play sports. So it's no stranger to me to plant a tree. I've planted enough trees myself. By the way, the government, the Ministry of Agriculture, currently has a programme that significantly increases the wooding, the planting of forests in Hungary, and many municipalities have been partners in this, as we in NewBuda have planted a lot of trees in the past, even during the period of the Fidesz city administration. I feel it is important, regardless of party status, to have as many green areas as possible and to plant as many trees and flowers as possible to make our environment more beautiful. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-26-194	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. In accordance with the limits given by the time frame available, I will also address Mrs Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-195	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ecological bomb is ticking at Lake Balaton. Not only am I saying this, but I'm also the head of the Balaton Limnological Institute, who said we should put on the handbrake. This draft legislation, which we have before us, does not mean that the handbrake should be pulled in, but that you are pushing even more to provide the buddies and the oligarchs with areas directly on the shore of Lake Balaton, killing reeds, cutting down trees if they are in the way. Otherwise, they do not shy away from muddying, because they need ports for luxury boats and luxury yachts that will park right next to their apartment houses. That is what this draft legislation is about. You can say that's not what it says, but we know that's the underlying motive. You don't even listen to the head of the Balaton Limnological Institute, even though you really need to put on the handbrake. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-04-26-196	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, As no one has made any further comments, the debate is closed. Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, indicated that he wanted to conclude. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary of State. The time frame is 15 minutes, since you didn't want to take advantage of the opportunity given by the expozé. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-26-197	Thank you very much for the floor. I'm sorry, I didn't want to say it as a closing point, but I wanted to make sure that they could react to it, but that's how I'm allowed to do it. If I may, I would like to continue the debate. So the thing is, really, on behalf of the government, we do deal with these things within the framework of the Prime Minister's Office, and we have the task and competence of dealing with green issues, Budapest affairs, Balaton affairs, and we have the management of government offices, which is why we are meeting with these stories. I believe that I can say, at least I have no doubt in your good intentions that we are on a platform, that green areas are important for all of us, that green areas are important for all of us, that is the development of green areas. development in a century. [[17.40]] And in the context of Lake Balaton, it is also crucial to bring development, which is also important for the people living around the lake and the people living there, together with ecological aspects. The problem is that when, on the other hand, action is needed and there are many municipalities where your political allies bear the responsibility of self-government, when trees should be planted, when greenland development plans should be carried out, in an operational manner that may take many years to manage, it turns out that you are very, very good at speaking, but only very, very weak in action. I believe that Budapest is a veterinary horse of this whole story, where the Mayor and his vast social support party are pleased with the role of the green savior, while the government, on the one hand, rides in from domestic budgetary sources and, on the other hand, from EU sources, in order to develop something green in Hungary, had to be suggested to take over these developments, and he would do it, because if we waited for him, besides Gergely Christmas riding in and telling me that the last tree would not happen. In the case of Lake Balaton, I would also like to suggest to your attention that..., so that intellectually and from a city planning point of view, it is a serious exercise of discretion as to what developments are in line with the interests of the inhabitants of the settlements, the settlements near Lake Balaton, on the one hand, and in line with the ecological characteristics and sustainability of the lake. Now, the problem is that the hysterical voice that has developed in this regard is not good for the professional debate about it, because, as you can see, if there is any development, if there is a project that does not matter whether it is a private investor, whether it is a right-wing one, whether it is a left-wing one, for which it is not acceptable, it is not a good direction for the designer or the contractor to take the development, then the government is ready to move, but the improvements that, on the other hand, are for the benefit of the lake, should not be stopped by a political purphalle. If I may, I would like to urge you to do this in-depth consideration during the negotiation of these types of legislative proposals. I may see badly on the field, but reading through this bill, I see that standing on the ground of common sense, standing on the ground of normality, and, by the way, taking into account the Commission and the TAB modifiers, there is no point in this bill that cannot be supported, there is no point in it, and we have complied with the Deputy Commissioner's position. By the way, you always argue with the rights and opportunities of small settlements in this Parliament. This helps the smallest settlements because it simplifies; because there are senseless parallels in the system; because here we are the XXI. In the 20th century, and there is no digitalisation; because there is a type of administrative burden on small settlements in the current regulation, which is completely unnecessary. And you're actually saying no to this amendment. And then I hear arguments... I get it. So, this bill is, on the one hand, a proposal for a salad law, which means that, in a complex codification sense, and, on the other hand, the opposition parties obviously do not have a codification apparatus like the government has. I would like to ask you to come to us if there are any misunderstanding on professional matters, and we will be happy to answer you. In the same way that, in the case of the previous point, we have clarified the misunderstandings with Mrs Potocska, let me clarify this other misunderstanding. I think it's a good sign that we're gonna talk together again. You may look good in front of TV cameras when you speak before the agenda, but it doesn't make much sense here. You object to my understanding of where we have retired. So now the bill is in order, but that the original bill is 76. There's an authorization clause in Section 2 of this article, that's the Trojan horse. Now we've narrowed the debate to what I understand is that we're going to put the whole Balaton down, and I don't know if we're going to domostomize or concrete, as you imagine, or as you would like it to be seen in the press. Let me make it clear to you that the regulations you are talking about have been in place since 2004. So these regulations are in force for all 44 settlements in Balaton, with regard to waterside rehabilitation at the moment. The point is that, according to the original plans, there is a long-term professional transformation of the regulatory environment, mainly in the context of simplification, but this has been stopped; precisely to leave more room for manoeuvre for municipalities, because at the moment, despite the fact that something is being written into the local construction regulations, the superior ministerial decree, which has been in force since 2004 for all Balaton settlements, has been in place at the level of the hierarchy of rights, and therefore, even if a settlement on the shore of Balaton would decide to increase the green area, it cannot do so under the current rules. We can't change that, because because of the change of regulation, an authority is out of the system, and we want to put this authority back. So, in fact, this allows us to adopt a new concept when there are changes initiated by the Balaton coastal municipalities and settlements, and when the social debate on this is over, we will be able to adopt a new concept with regard to the whole of the regulation. Of course, we will be able to hold the professional debate on it then, and we will also be able to hold preliminary social consultations, but this is probably not up to date before 2022. So I would like to ask you, before we misunderstand each other, and before we have a bad and bad conversation, that it is worth clarifying these codification features on a professional level, and then this could be just a bill where the party and opposition can agree, they can reach an agreement that goes beyond party policy logic. Without this, the only thing I can fix here in Parliament's walls is that, in a completely incomprehensible and irrational way, because of political disagreement with the government, you do not support a bill that greens, digitalizes and facilitates the leeway of small settlements. [[Anita Kőrösi Potochanya: And she owns me!]] And I just don't understand why that is. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-198	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain law enforcement laws to strengthen public security and the discussion of the summarised amendment are now in order to be followed. Government referral T/15705. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. The time frame is 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-26-199	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain law enforcement laws to strengthen public security, T/1570. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, with 5 abstentions and 2 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us initiates a larger or lesser amendment to 20 laws. Several of the proposed amendments stem from our obligation to harmonise EU legislation, while others have been called for by practical experience. I'd like to make some brief introductions. The EU Border Protection Regulation, the necessary harmonisation of legislation in the context of the amendment of the Frontex Regulation, forms the most extensive part of the proposal. Although the Frontex Regulation is directly applied by the Member States, there is also a need to supplement domestic legislation in order to ensure effective functioning. The amendments also serve the purpose of making it easier for Hungarian police to participate in Frontex operations than before, so that the security of our country can continue to increase. The amendment to introduce a long-term residence card, which will be a document containing biometric data in the same format as the residence permit, can also be traced back to EU rules. [[17.50]] This card will be given to third-country family members of citizens of the European Economic Area instead of their former documents. With the introduction of a new type of document with wider data content, the relevant data management rules are, of course, supplemented. The package of proposals contains further changes to certain procedural rules relating to residence permits. The aim is to create more efficient administrative operation and, in addition, to supplement the rules on asylum detention. I'd like to highlight the violation laws and the Btk. This would allow more stringent penalties to be imposed on unlicensed driving. The form of offence would now be punishable by detention of an offence, and if it were committed under a ban on driving, it would also be possible to impose imprisonment. Furthermore, an unauthorised driving of a vehicle under an infringement procedure or in criminal proceedings would be considered as a criminal offence due to the threat to an outlying society. However, in line with the threat to society, the proposal states that an act is committed under prohibition from driving in criminal proceedings. This proposal is particularly timely because of cases of public and public uproar over the last few months, and here I think it is not in the Chamber, but it must be mentioned that it is based on a previous proposal by our fellow Member from Molnár Zsolt MSZP. The proposal extending the duration of the temporary transfer of law enforcement personnel, I think, is a tolerable burden, but it is essential for the flexibility of the task of law enforcement, and this must be of paramount importance in the current emergency circumstances. Dear House, I believe that it can contribute to strengthening public safety in all the elements of the package of proposals before us, which is why it should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-200	Thank you very much, honourable Member. I am now going to ask Mr Károly Kontra, as rapporteur, that he wishes to speak now. [[Károly Kontra: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much for not. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that you will have a 15-minute deadline for closing. Dear House, I would like to inform you, fellow Members, that the designated Defence and Police Committee has not issued a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone would like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. Now, I'm going to ask the Secretary of State that he needs a brief closing. [[Contra on Charles' signal:]] Yeah. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-201	Just so much, Mr President, and thank you, Honourable Parliament, for asking the Honourable Parliament to support the summation of the amendment and the single proposal in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention and support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Dear House, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission's reports on certain provisions relating to asset management and the amendment of certain laws concerning asset management and national financial services and the summary amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/15706. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the proposal is held as a minority item by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-26-203	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed T/15706 on certain provisions relating to the management of assets and amending certain laws concerning the management of assets and national financial services. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. pursuant to Article 23 of the Rules of Procedure, and with 10 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The main aim of the bill on the House's table is to provide for the transfer of ownership of certain state-owned assets in order to ensure the necessary conditions for the public tasks performed by the beneficiaries and, on the basis of the experience gained by law enforcement, to lay down the necessary amendments to the laws presented briefly below, and to guide, in recent years, the national assets and changes in the management of assets through the legislation contained in the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill consists of four state-owned properties located in the interior of Bakonybel and Budapest II. It includes provisions on the free ownership of real estate in its district and on certain trustees, including amendments to the laws on bankruptcy, water management, postal services and state assets. According to the amendment of the Erzsébet Camps Act, the Erzsébet Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin is a public mission to participate in children's and youth programmes in order to protect future generations, to organise children's and youth camps, as well as to carry out organisational, management, education and training activities related thereto, using support from the central budget. The Water Management Act will be supplemented in order to facilitate the removal from the real estate register of the right of operator registered for the properties of state-owned waters and water facilities in order to ensure that the trust rights of water management managers designated by the Act are entered in the real estate register and that water management boards can carry out their management tasks in relation to the real estate concerned in the future in accordance with State property legislation. Dear House, Like the objectives outlined, the proposal also envisages further amendments, which should also be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-204	Thank you very much, honourable Member. I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State János Fónagy... [[Dr. János Fónagy: In the end, thank you, Mr. President.]] Thank you very much, therefore, the Secretary of State will want to respond to what has been said in the closing remarks. I would like to inform you, Mr Secretary of State, that you will have a 15-minute timeframe. Dear House, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. First, I give the floor to Mr Ritter Imre, a national representative, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, who describes the first sentences in the language of nationality, translates them into Hungarian and then continues to speak Hungarian, and finally says goodbye to his fellow Members in the language of nationality. Here you go, representative of the national minority, you have the floor.
u2021-04-26-205	Thank you. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges, Zu bestimmter Anordnung über die Verwaltung von Vermögenswerten und zur Änderung bestimmter Gesetze zur Verwaltung von Vermögenswerten und nationalen T/15706. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position at T/15706. on the proposal for a law on certain provisions relating to the management of assets and amending certain laws concerning the management of assets and national financial services. I would like to inform the House that the bill was discussed in detail at the meeting of our committee on 13 April 2021 as an associated committee and concluded that the bill was in line with the House Rule 44. Paragraph 1 of this Article. No amendments were tabled to the bill, and the Committee did not express any intention to amend it, so the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary did not submit an amendment closing the Commission's in-depth debate. The bill is 17. Article 2a of the Act on the Rights of Nationalities of 2011 CLXXIX. Law 25 § 6 is amended, namely, it clarifies and complements the guarantee conditions for the automatic withdrawal of the ownership of movable and immovable property by the national minority public education institutions in the maintenance of the national minority self-governments to the original owner. [[18.00]] This clarification concerns a total of 8 nationalities in the local and national minority self-governments: Greek, Croatian, German, Roma, Romanian, Serbian, Slovak and Slovenian, a total of 78 ethnic public education institutions. During the general debate, I briefed this House in detail on the situation of transfers of ownership to national authorities in these institutions. In summary, more than 90 percent of the 104 ethnic public education institutions have been successfully completed or are in the process and are expected to close in a few weeks. There are only 8-10 institutions where court proceedings, heritage protection procedures, a significant number of member institutions and others are expected to take longer due to specific problems. The transfer of ownership of these national minority public education institutions to the national minority self-governments is yet another significant and successful step towards ensuring the autonomy of national education. After all, back to the concrete amendment of the law, the 17th. § 2 the return of property ownership to the original owner shall, on the one hand, be supplemented by the interpretation that, in the event of the disposal of the assets, the ownership of the property which replaces them shall also be returned to the original owner. On the other hand, it adds two additional points to cases of withdrawal of ownership, and I quote: (c) the right of maintenance is transferred to a central budgetary body or local government, or (d) the performance of the teaching and teaching task on the property is terminated. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) We agree with both amendments, and we consider it necessary, since, in addition to the termination of so-called basic cases, the termination of the maintenance successor or the termination of the public education institution, the guarantees for the original owner will be extended to special cases where, after 15 years, the maintenance unit may be alienated or, if the institution does not cease to exist, the provision of educational and educational tasks on a property will cease. The latter may occur primarily where the nationality public education institution has one or more member institutions, and in one of its member institutions education would cease, but we hope that this guarantee will not have to be applied. On this basis, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is set out in Annex T/15706. It agrees with and supports the adoption of the bill on certain provisions relating to the management of assets and amending certain laws concerning the management of assets and national financial services. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-26-206	Thank you very much, Imre Ritter, spokesperson, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll ask who wants to comment. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, Mr Group Leader, LMP.
u2021-04-26-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I will comment very briefly on this proposal. I can say, and by the way, this has been said by several of my fellow Members in the general debate, that we, of course, fully agree with many of the tasks or many goals set out in the bill, and these are clearly eligible and should be supported. At the same time, we have a lot of concerns, and I think that we are well founded on the practice of the state, on how it organises public wealth in various foundations and in the pursuit of different objectives, and we are missing the necessary guarantees here. On the other hand, we are very concerned about the amendments to this law in relation to the replacement requirements, which is why we cannot vote for it. So, basically, we are not having a problem with the declared targets here, but we are not going to be able to support it because of the details and the missing guarantees. In fact, the reason I asked you to speak is to take advantage of the possibility that you are here, Mr State Secretary, and then I have one question for you. It is very important, we can say, that we are talking about one of the most important problems facing the country, and this is related to the role and responsibilities of the minister responsible for the management of national assets. I have spoken here many times before the National Assembly about the serious situation of the water utility sector in Hungary, and that a shortage of thousands of billion forints of resources can be found here that the basic infrastructure providing the most important public service, the renovation, maintenance and replacement of the drinking water network and the sewage network can be achieved. In the summer of last year, in a surprising and positive way, Prime Minister also acknowledged the need to involve resources in a thousand billion-dollar scale. And then you mentioned, Prime Minister, that it will be possible to carry out this very important task from European Union development funds, the reconstruction fund. At the same time, the government has now prepared this particular development document, which must be submitted by the end of April, and I do not want to go into the detailed criticism of this, which obviously does not belong here, but it can be seen that there is no source from these directions. So the proposals for solutions presented by previous plans and by Prime Minister are not being implemented, and in parallel, we do not see the intention of the government to provide resources for the maintenance and operation of the most important infrastructure, the drinking water network. How do you see it, Mr Secretary, from what source will the government be able to solve this extremely urgent task? And where will they come up with the missing amount of between 1,500 and 3000 billion in the 15-year horizon? So this amount is missing beyond the existing resources, we can say that it is a professional consensus that a thousand billion is missing. We have come to the point where Prime Minister recognises it, but we do not yet see where the government will replace it. So, if you can provide me with information on this, it is obviously important for me to have an answer to this question, but obviously that is not the most important thing, but that those responsible for maintaining the municipalities, the Hungarian Water Facility Association and the entire profession should receive some information, some kind of impulse from the government, where the government will come from, if not from European Union development sources. Thank you very much in advance, if you will answer that, Mr Secretary of State.
u2021-04-26-208	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2021-04-26-209	Mr President, Dear House, The opposition representative is in a difficult situation if he wishes to maintain his professionalism and, since 2010, it has become increasingly difficult to meet this challenge. Once again, we are looking at a proposal where, by the way, a professional I respect must now defend, as a national or on behalf of the government, what we believe to be indefensible. He's obviously gonna have a different opinion about this. But what I see is that bringing together real estate, paintings, sports debts and even the case of the post office in a large bill, at least an interesting genre extension of the salad law, especially on a day when Parliament's atmosphere makes you more comfortable with various propaganda statements and beliefs. We have heard such nonsense here today that the Hungarian population situation would have turned in a positive direction. I'm afraid not. But there's a lot of propaganda lying around in a dwindling, unfortunately, country that's losing its power that's pretty amazing. For example, Madam Congresswoman talked about the trend turn after a year when we were fewer Hungarians matching Nagykanizsa's population, and when they first said this onion thing, which is unfortunately not true, I wish it were true, they did so in a month when we lost a Hungarian equivalent to Siklós's population in a month. And they speak, by the way, on the basis of distorted statistics which need not be examined a little bit further, only to obtain it, and also to find out that if you go into the MNB, Mr Matolcsy, and extend the current birth numbers to the future Hungary, you will get that 30-40 years from now, we will be a country of six and a half million, based on the current birth numbers. And I'm not saying it, I'm saying it's the MNB's expert workshop. So it is very difficult to come back to the ground of calm, calm professionalism when there are statements that are being made which my pro-government fellow Members are trying to defend with frivolity, but cannot defend them with numbers and facts. We can now see that, along with various beautifully formulated goals, the transfer of state assets, I would say in an ugly way: it is being played over, for example, a resort that Lőrinc Mészáros and his team can renovate, which the state otherwise gives away, and we can see that on every road and road, it is as if we were watching the Game of Thrones. [[18.10]] So behind the curtains, behind the doors, there's blonde curls, blue eyes, a Lannister everywhere. You're doing the same thing: a fidesz stooge, investor, contractor friend somehow appears around every investment sooner or later. What we see in these salad-type solutions is that if Mr Secretary of State comes before us to expand certain capacity for sick children and a property element has to be handed over, I think that all sane Hungarian Members, especially national emotional ones, support this, I would also support it immediately. The problem is that you will be embarrassed to put a salad in front of us, where the interests of the sick children are mixed, and the investment of Lőrinc Mészáros, or the place where there hasn't been a children's retreat for years, but the government now wants to settle the fate of the territory by reference to this. In recent months, I see that the Government of Hungary has begun to prepare for its own failure. This in itself would be an understandable reaction, as there are a lot of such governments in European political life, all governance will end sooner or later; I suppose you do not expect their regency to last until the end of the world and the end of time, but we also see that in recent months and a year or two, an IMF loan is being imposed in Hungary. An IMF loan is charged to the Hungarian people's cash register and the budget with an amount of money. After all, if we remember the amounts of the IMF loan, we can see that at the top of the debt there was a HUF 3500 billion item in a period of economic policy that I am not a fan of at all. I calmed down when we finally outgrown the IMF loan, let it go, and the country got rid of it. But in my dream, in my nightmares, I didn't think that Fidesz-KDNP would throw a burden on the Hungarian people the size of an IMF loan, because if I add four items, this is exactly the magnitude and amount that comes out. The first of the four items is the Russian-based Mega Paks loan. The second is the madness of Budapest-Belgrád with Chinese credit. The third is the case of the Chinese University, where the credit line itself is worth more than 450 billion, plus the quoted pocket money that the Government of Hungary has put into it. And if we add the value of the assets transferred to the foundations, from the four factors the amount of the former IMF loan will come out by magnitude. And why the comparison with the amount of the IMF loan gives its validity, all four items pull these amounts out of the pockets of Hungarian taxpayers in the long term, they can be shown to achieve a situation of respect for the exception in terms of the transferred assets, but mostly curatoriums with fidesz composition will assess the fate of assets that we parliamentary representatives will now, in principle, stress, in accordance with the law on national assets, will be able to control in principle. This will change, and the composition of the Curatoriums may be modified so that if a Fidesz party soldier falls out, the board itself will be able to appoint a replacement fighter, who is also believed to be loyal to the pro-governments, to supervise these assets, not to prevent the circumvention of assets from taking place in private pockets. In itself, we are not against the form of foundation, let us say, in the case of a university, because as a pro-market economist, I clearly think that the genre question is, in what form it works, to be effective. I have a problem with the way you do it. It is not an infrastructural investment based on international credit itself, because a sane national economy allows normal operating capital into its country if it is based on public burdens. With regard to the mad investment in Budapest-Belgrád, we do not see these returns in terms of investment that does not pay back in hundreds of years. In the case of the Chinese university, it is even easier for us to do so, because you, pro-government experts, have declared that you will raise a foreign university in Hungary with Chinese migrant workers, Hungarian taxpayers' money, which you have told us is that your own experts are able to suck students away from Corvinus and other universities that are otherwise meant to be elite, because the number of students is limited and limited. We see that despite these processes, they are making this damage to the national economy on the market. Overall, it is no exaggeration to state that Fidesz-KDNP is putting a burden on the Hungarian people's wallet, which is close to the brutal amount of the IMF loan, and does so with a national syrup, but this economic policy has nothing to do with the national interest, unless it is a question of forgetting which nation's interests they represent, as the Chinese are certainly very happy about these investments. As your right-wing opposition, blessed with Christian social sensitivity, we will take care of the Hungarian people's wallet, and there is absolutely no threat to what I say: we will undo the madness, we will protect the Hungarian people from you. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Dr. László Keresztes applauds Lóran.]]
u2021-04-26-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State, to answer the questions that have been raised. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-26-211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you, Mr President, for your kindness towards me, and in return, may I say that you are capable of more than that, so you are more professional than you have said here. I was just trying to follow the fact that from sick children to the IMF, from popular growth to the Game of Thrones, from Game of Thrones to Curatorial faces, from the feeling of Christian socialism, so there were a lot of interesting things. Allow me, in reply, to say only what I said in the previous debate on this bill, by the way, in connection with a similar suggestion. This salad has a professional argument, and it is known that a government institution cares about these issues, and this is when we get the opportunity to bring cases that come to the legislative phase after various lengths of preparation. But different, indeed different cases, require different preparation. Some of them, and you are absolutely right about that, are relatively easily eligible, because it is so obvious that there is consensus; there is political disapproval. It's one of these salads, I'm not proud of it as a codificator, but it's the work of lawmaking, if you don't explain it, but it does. With Mr Crusade, there is no debate between us about the fact that Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure does not apply. One of Hungary's most important natural treasures in the century is drinking water and waterable water, and everything in this context, the drinking water network, water bases, sewage, irrigation and the rest, but even the water steering parts of the river basins are undoubtedly very important. You are right, Prime Minister, who quoted you as saying that these are very important things, they cost a great deal of money, so they must be done after very careful preparation, because anyone who goes in the wrong direction on these issues is making a very big mistake. The government will deal with it, and when the question comes to it, it will bring it to the Hungarian Parliament. The source of the question, perhaps from which Member, may have asked where the government is making money: the government does not make money, the working society creates money, the world of work creates money. It is obvious that this can only be done with taxes and money, or if the possibility is such, it can be done with EU money, but basically from what we have done with these, either flood protection charges for the past decades, water management or water damage control plans. In addition, in summing up, I would like to ask the Parliament to thank the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and the Legislative Committee for their work, that the T/13672. Please support bill No 1 together with the summarised amendment submitted to it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[18.20]]
u2021-04-26-212	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposed Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. The government referral is T/15709. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-04-26-213	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/1570 on the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 18 votes to six, with no abstentions. Dear House, The purpose of the bill before us is to establish a supervisory authority for regulatory activities falling within some exclusive economic activities of the State and which regulate and supervise certain regulatory activities of a public authority, acting as an independent regulatory body under the Parliament. The establishment of the Authority aims to make the regulation and supervision of economic sectors or activities referred to in the Authority's tasks more effective, by strengthening the powers of the Authority, increasing independence and stabilising supervisory positions. With the adoption of the proposal, the resulting authority can ensure effective, strong and single market regulation for a greater public benefit in the areas concerned. Under the submitted bill, the authority is responsible for the tasks related to the exercise and regulation of supervision over the system of independent judicial enforcement organisations and to the management and regulation of the list of liquidators, which are currently part of the duties of the Minister of Justice and of the Minister without a wallet for the management of national assets, as well as to the licensing, official control, supervision and regulation of the activities of gambling management and retail trade in tobacco products, as well as the supervision, supervision and regulation of certain activities of tobacco retail supply activities and of tobacco wholesalers. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the substantive objectives expressed, the bill on the House's table should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask the Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda, who is sitting here on behalf of the rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak now or later. [[For signal:]] Later. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group.
u2021-04-26-215	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I will not be long, but I predict that this is one of the most despicable legislative proposals that has been put before Parliament not only in the last few weeks, but in the last ten years. There is nothing else in the bill here, which is your intention, not only to outsource public wealth, not only universities, but also very important government functions, and put under political control. This is quite an amazing and brazen series of steps they are taking, and this is compounded by the fact that they are doing so during a very serious crisis, during a critical period of the epidemic. What I can tell you is that you should be ashamed of yourself, Mr. Secretary, that you dare to do this outrage! Technically, they're building a parallel power structure, a deep state, a very important step of it is this outrageous bill. Specifically, they're organizing functions that are currently under government control, and that's where they belong. This is obviously linked to the fact that next year there will be parliamentary elections in Hungary. It is quite cynical for you to create an authority, its president and its four deputies to be cemented for virtually nine years, even to determine that a salary of 4.5 million is to be paid to deputies of $4 million. That's pretty amazing. There's nothing to sugarcoat on this bill. We can say that if we have to present a proposal that symbolizes your political thinking and action, it could be one of the things that could be underlined. I can say that we will find the legal opportunity to find this series of shameful steps, if you are expelled by the Hungarian electorate next year, then we will make it right, and we will bring these important functions back to the powers of the government again, and we will also bring back the wealth relief or asset outsourcing that is being carried out with many other legislative proposals to be negotiated today, and we will also restore this opportunity to the government authorised by the Hungarian electorate, and we will also give this opportunity back to the Members of Parliament. Of course, the LMP faction will vote against this bill accordingly. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-26-216	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Congressman Dávid Héyj, Fidesz.
u2021-04-26-217	Thank you very much. I see that my fellow Member, Mr Z. Carpath, has returned, and he has still been able to press a button. Although this was not my original intention, let me tell the Member briefly that although the President of the Authority will be appointed by the Prime Minister for nine years, in accordance with the provisions of the Fundamental Law concerning independent regulatory bodies, the Authority will only be accountable to Parliament. So you will be accountable to the Parliament. The President of the Authority shall report the activities of the Office to the National Assembly by 31 May of the year following the reference year, and shall, on request, provide information to the Parliament's committee having a task. I understand your fears, but I still think it's worth adding. Thank you.
u2021-04-26-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2021-04-26-219	Mr President, Dear House, I have to say, as important as the subject is, it's so strange to discuss it at this late hour. But let's just say to ourselves that the bail-out of the spontaneous privatisation period, or the bail-out of the economic sectors, which the government has been doing in recent years, has obviously not been caused by chance. Obviously, there's a plan B, a scenario B, what this government will do in the event of an election defeat. It clearly shows that its aim, one, is to bring as large assets as possible into its own control and then to keep it under control, and secondly, to cement as many people as possible who it believes to be not two-thirds, but, let's say, at least 50 per cent plus one opposition national unity government will not be able to move. In my view, this is a vain fantasy, a vain desire, and this government will not succeed in installing, through cycles, people who have proved that they are loyal not to the profession, but to the party, but that this party state arrangement may be the most controversial and argued by constitutional lawyers. I don't think this is the subject of this agenda, so I don't want to go further in this direction than I did. I must say, however, that, in addition to the tobacco industry and gambling industry, we can focus on phenomena that irritate citizens' subjective everyday feelings. For example, the casino fetish produced by this government is quite amazing. I live in Obuda, and in front of one of the casinos of government interest, even at the top of the second wave, queued for the madness of winnings and lottery tickets in the envelope, and in an infinitely irritating way, when no professional or epidemiological regulation would have allowed it, you still benefited from the business and units of your friends. At the same time, we see a lot of times this government refers to a deep state and to the fact that they are building a deep state. A background power at global level is trying to trick Viktor Orbán and his ministers. What we do see in Hungary is that exactly Fidesz-KDNP is trying to build a parallel state apparatus and to implement its own deep state. What we see is that they try to cement their own people into professional organizations in as many places as possible. We are talking about a nine-year appointment and a cycle of something, so there is no restraint on the part of the government in this matter, forcing the opposition into legal solutions within the limits of constitutionality and legality that will be able to prevent Fidesz-KDNP from wanting to dominate everything through cycles. [[18.30]] My area of expertise is more about supervision of implementations, so it is the third leg of this proposal. Here, I'm not a scared person as a fighter, but I'm terrified here. I am terrified of this part of the proposal, because since 2010 I have seen that the executive department... Respect for the exception, because it is certain that there are honest people among them, those who work in compliance with all market standards, or those who are public figures, but I must say that the majority are not only due to the wild drivings of the market, but also to the clear overruns and overgrowths that are inhumane, to which national emotional people simply cannot give their names and to which you cannot give your name. Not a single member of the government. There has not been such a masculine character among you, and I hope that Secretary of State Schanda will be the first to stand up and dare to tell me how you imagined this in the middle of an epidemiological emergency, when we talk about a credit moratorium, rightly, we will talk about wage replacement, replacement of lost wages, and we will discuss the volume of this, rightly, but it is possible that 33 or 50 percent of the income will be taken away in a manner that affects tens of thousands of people in terms of the smallest pensions and minimum wage. In an epidemiological emergency, where the loss of income cannot be replaced, and when a protective shield should be drawn right above those in the most difficult situation and brought before it in order not to be destroyed by this crisis. And you simply didn't dare to tell us or to look us in the eye and express why they allow the executioners to make similar overruns. There are many cases of doubt in legal proceedings, but the minimum requirement would be and I have tabled a proposal in this regard, Mr State Secretary, so that we can have a professional debate on this, so that minimum pensions and minimum wage are better than, or even better, by the guaranteed minimum wage, 33 per cent or 50 per cent of enforcement bans can not be made until the end of the emergency. So a kind of moratorium should also apply to this, to protect our most difficult line of countrymen. This is a proposal with a basically humanitarian approach, including, of course, the Christian social sensitivity of Jobbik, but it is still a policy-free proposal. It would be our dog's duty to have a substantive debate on this, but what we see now is that the government is also trying to outsource supervision of executives, and it wants to keep this under its own jurisdiction for a long time, if necessary, for nine years. Why? How can it be that after all these years of collusion, the EBRD pact that the government concluded with the banks, guaranteeing them that they would not be burdened with a single forint to settle the situation of the victims, why should we believe, after all these years of collusion, that there will be a positive change from this outsourcing? We cannot believe this, so we clearly call on the government not to collide with the executives in this spirit, and do not attempt to outsource their supervision to save the inexcusable that they are doing, but to regulate this market. We do not want to destroy the executive branch, although a professional proposal has already been made within Jobbik's circles to my colleague Gábor Staudt, the essence of which was that the independent judicial executive institution should be terminated, Hungary or the Hungarian state may try to carry out the task that is now being performed on a market basis by people who realise extra profit in the misery of Hungarian people. This would be unacceptable under real national governance. It does happen to you, so it calls for answers to all the questions that have been raised, and I add that all the accusations have been made, because we are talking about tens of thousands of our fellow countrymen, who are at risk in the most difficult life situation, in the middle of the emergency of the disease, of taking away half their income, if any. This, please, is nonsense! In the middle of an epidemic, we have to reach out to them, which is what I expect from you. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-04-26-220	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed and I give the floor to the State Secretary Tamás Schanda, who is sitting here on behalf of the authors, who clearly wishes to reply.
u2021-04-26-221	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank MEP Ádám Héjj, for giving an excellent summary of the purpose of the bill and why we thought that this bill should be before the Parliament. In order to spare time, I would not repeat the words of the Member, who, I say, has very well summarized the purpose of this bill. Moreover, we had a long debate here during the plenary debate on this bill, and I regret that, among other things, Mr Kereszt was not here, so we did not have the opportunity to get to know the position of the LMP faction during the plenary debate. I am pleased that, at least in this way, at second reading, we have the opportunity to talk to each other about this really important issue. A question that, I think, has great significance, because it is clear and clear what the government's aim is. We want to create an institutional system that strengthens the powers of consumer authority control and supervision and provides a strong and uniform regulatory role for the public by setting up and establishing a public authority that will be able to respond more quickly and effectively to social and economic processes. In addition, while real bureaucracy is being reduced, a more transparent and uniform approach for both citizens and businesses create a legal environment with more transparent processes. Frankly, I also find it difficult to understand the political approach that Mr President has put forward here. It is rare for an opposition to put it out on the board to say that there are more governments, fewer Parliaments, because it is in fact that they are transferred from government to the authority of a parliamentary assembly. And you have caused even the unprecedented situation of demanding more government influence, more governmental powers, to contradict the government in this case as well as not to support a government proposal. I admit honestly that I do not understand this opposition attitude, but of course I accept it. My request is to encourage us to have more powers and more licences, or at least, when there is an emergency, to grant the necessary authority for this to be done by the government. I ask you to think the same way when there is an emergency, so that the government can have all the powers it needs to make decisions. You will have the opportunity to prove this in the next period. On the other hand, I also see, Mr honourable Member, Mr Head of the Cross and Mr Z. Karpat, that they have read the publicism of András Schiffer; it seems that they are made of it, and here they have shared their ideas about the deep state. This was an intellectually exciting reading, and it would be worth having an intellectual debate about it, perhaps more thoroughly and deeply than Mr. Group Leader has put it here. But I think that, in addition to the writings of former Member Schiffer, it is worth reading, for example, Béla Hell, and it is worth reading other writings that clearly and clearly show that there is no connection between the existence of a deep state and the establishment of an authority under Parliament. It's clear and clear. By the way, it is impossible for the government and the majority of the Parliament to want to create a deep state structure. Because that's not what a deep state means. That means something quite different, something I would like to discuss with you in political philosophy, but it may not be worth doing in connection with the debate on this bill. On the other hand, allow me also to draw your attention to the fact that when you talk about a credit moratorium and eviction, a slight self-examination could be carried out at least once, Mr President. Because in February you had the opportunity to help the Hungarian families and support the credit moratorium and what did you do? He pushed a huge no. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] [[18.40]] Congressman, you said a huge no. If you and your faction were in power and that left-wing mess you asked for, then, honourable Member, there wouldn't be a credit moratorium. It wouldn't be a credit moratorium, this place. That's the thing. So when you talk about the credit moratorium and eviction, I will stand up and tell you to be ashamed, because at least from you, if nothing else, we would have expected that caracanity from you in the Jobbik fraction. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: We gave you the idea.]] To tell Mr. Peter James that this is not a faction leader, let us not do this and press the button and support the maintenance of the credit moratorium. We would have expected this from you; unfortunately, even you did not dare to do so by singing out of the choir on the left. On the other hand, may I also draw your attention to the fact that, although it was theatrical, as you said, because of the lottery tickets, there were lines in front of the casinos, the only problem is that you should be aware of it, but you did not look into it, and it seemed better to speak in such a theatrical way here in Parliament that there were no lottery tickets in casinos. So it is quite certain that they did not line up for a lottery ticket, honourable Member, because, contrary to your statement, a piece of lottery tickets cannot be bought in any casino, during an epidemic or outside of an epidemic. So it's clear that for a moment on the stage, you were able to claim a complete nonsense here in the parliamentary debate. Allow me also to draw attention to the fact that there is nothing special about the appointment of leaders. The Parliament still has authorities and organizations under Parliament that will be similar to the setting up of this new authority, where exactly the same rules apply, exactly the same. They're literally the same. So, honourable Member, the fact is that once again I have to say that there is nothing to see, there is no special situation. We are implementing exactly the same regulation as in all other cases. With regard to executives, allow me one more sentence, honourable Member. The fact is that the current legislation is not subject to changes in procedural rules from a material, subjective or procedural point of view, so this type of change does not really concern the bill. It may be worth doing in another debate, of course. I hope that I have answered all the questions, including those that have now been said here, those questions that have not been raised in plenary, and that we have not been able to discuss them in detail, and I hope that, although I can see that not all the groups have taken a perfectly satisfied and fully supportive position on the bill, on the one hand, I hope that I have been able to resolve the doubts raised, and that, after that, the Members and the factions can support the amendment tabled. On the other hand, I also see that no individual amendments have been tabled to the bill, which, I hope, shows exactly what Mr Z. Carpath is saying behind my back, that what is perfect is not worth correcting. So it is basically good to show that the Parliament can take a decision on a proposal that is well-developed and can be supported by a broad consensus. That is why, Mr President, I ask only the ladies and gentlemen of the House to support the bill tabled in the final vote. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-26-222	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on public interest trust foundations and the summary amendment proposal will be discussed. The government referral is T/15710. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee. [[Continue in 191/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Parliamentary Diary
u2021-04-26-223	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/15710 on public-service trust foundations. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes to 10, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill on the House's table is so specific, the Fundamental Law 38. The sui generis listed in paragraph 6 of Article 6 therefore allows the establishment of a form of foundation of a unique nature, which carries out a professional level of asset management in addition to the asset allocation and financing assigned to the public service in order to carry out the public tasks specified in this bill. Public-service trust foundations are special entities. On the one hand, they perform a public service mission while, on the other hand, they can be regarded as private entities in terms of their status. Article 38 of the Fundamental Law. Paragraph 6 of the Act provides for the establishment, operation and termination of a public trust fund with a public service mission, as well as for the performance of its public service tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, Please allow me to highlight a number of important criteria for public-service trust foundations. The first is that the most important feature is that it can only be founded in a form of public interest, and it can only be registered by a court by means of a law which, by means of a detailed definition of the public service mission which it carries out, qualifies the public interest trustee as a public interest trust. The second is that the public-interest trust fund shall manage its assets for its benefit as an economic activity and which it has taken for that purpose, as well as assets from other sources, as a foundation, with its assets in mind and without prejudice to the requirements of the responsible management, but is free to manage in relation to the limits of the management of other types of foundations. Third, it is also important to point out that the public-service trust fund can only be operated with significant assets and capital power, in particular that this stable economic basis is also necessary for the quality and smooth performance of the public service mission. It was therefore necessary to establish the minimum amount of the assets to be allocated to the Foundation, which the legislation calls a minimum of capital. The bill requires the Foundation to draw up an investment policy in which the basic rules for the management and use of the Foundation's property must be laid down. The fourth is that the property assigned to the public interest trust fund with a public service mission may consist of any assets. For the purpose of controlling the management of assets, it is important that the articles of incorporation mark these assets and assets with the utmost precision to enable them to be identified. The fifth is that the proposal, with the institution of the increase of assets, also provides for the possibility, as stated in the articles of association, of providing the foundation with additional assets, with the aim of increasing the property of the foundation at the time of its establishment or accession. The sixth: the bill contains a special provision for the foundation's organisation. [[18.50]] For example, it establishes the mandatory number of members of the Board of Governors in at least five natural persons and makes it compulsory to set up a supervisory board or appoint a permanent auditor. The seventh: in the event that, by virtue of the founder's provision, the founder's rights are exercised by the Board, the bill shall ensure that the functioning of the Foundation's articles of association and the provision of the bill is monitored by the Foundation's property inspector appointed by the founder, who is responsible for external control of the management of assets and the legal operation. Dear House, The grant of assets to the Foundation is based on both the provision of public tasks and the ability to function. The grant of property and the ordering of property must be free of charge, and the essential element of the assets transferred is that the foundation is owned by the Foundation and, in the case of a right of property, the Foundation becomes the holder of it. However, in line with the general fund rules, the articles of association shall indicate the holding element, company shares, including any subsequent payments, which the State has granted free of charge. It will also be recorded in the area of asset relief that the Foundation is free to manage the assets of the founder, where appropriate free of charge by the State, in order to carry out its public function, without prejudice to the requirements of the responsible management, irrespective of the assets. This rule strengthens the foundation's private-law legal personality, while at the same time it is possible for the founder, where appropriate the State, to impose additional conditions in the application of assets. Dear Parliament, The guarantee rule of the bill, which aims to preserve the property of the foundation, should also be highlighted, since in order to preserve the property, the founder may specify in the articles of association the level under which the foundation property cannot be reduced. Dear House, In view of what has been said, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-26-224	Thank you very much, Congressman Potter. I ask the author whether he wishes to speak now or later, at the end, Mr. Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. [[For signal:]] State Secretary Tamás Schanda wishes to speak at the end. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I give the floor to Imre Ritter, a national representative, the rapporteur of the committee of Hungarian ethnicities related to the debate, who describes the first sentences in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-26-225	Thank you. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nr. T/15710 force field. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our views on the T/15710 on public-interest trust foundations In the context of the legislative proposal No. I would like to inform the House that the bill was discussed in detail at our committee's meeting on 13 April 2021 as an associated committee, and unanimously stated that the bill was in line with the House Rule 44. Paragraph 1 of this Article. Our committee did not comment on the amendments to the bill, nor did the committee intend to make any further amendments, so the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary did not submit an amendment closing the Commission's in-depth debate. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary on Public Interest Trust Foundations T/15710. It supports the adoption of bill No. 1 and recommends it to this House. Thank you very much for your attention. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-26-226	Thank you very much, Congressman Ritter Imre. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the group, LMP.
u2021-04-26-227	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, My former Fidesz fellow Member is no longer present. The whole point is that a Fidesz MEP said in connection with the debate on the recent bill is that it is enough for him to listen to the report of the head of various authorities now embedded by the government for nine years, but in no way will he have a say in the functions that have been outsourced. This is an outrage, and I can answer that to Mr. Secretary of State. We believe that government functions cannot be allocated to designated authorities elected by fidesz politicians or to public foundations, and that public wealth cannot be organised into so-called public trust funds. The fact that you have brought in the legislative amendment and the amendment of the basic law in relation to them during a critical period of crisis is quite shameful. This tells us a lot about what you are really dealing with when such a terrible crisis, such a pandemic, has reached Hungary, basically dealing with shovelling and outsourcing of public wealth. It is clear from your previous practice that you are led by what purpose: specifically fidesz politicians, in many cases government members, or people close to you, are appointed to the head of foundations that control the vast assets of the public in such a way that they cannot be called back, at least according to your intentions it is impossible to recall them. I think that we have made our position very clearly enough during the general debate and in concrete decisions that have already been made in the past. I would now like to talk about the fact that the Secretary of State has missed the amendments. For this bill, I have tabled exactly seven amendments, and I would like to describe them. I think these proposals do not surprise me. They concern the fact that the founding rights, i.e. basically to the government, are not to be transferred to the Board of Governors, so that all important decisions regarding the foundation can then be taken by the Board of Governors, the virtually unrecallable, embedded politicians of the Fidesz. Some of the proposals concern this. It is also a very important element that the control function should not be exercised by the person appointed by the board, but by the founder's right that, if such a foundation is established, we basically disagree, but if such a foundation is established, then the verification should not be carried out by a person or company entrusted by the Board, so that someone should be entrusted with their own control. It is also very important and it is shocking that an amending proposal should also be tabled in this regard, so that the determination of the objectives of the assets organised in the foundations is a fundamental criterion. You can see that there are a lot of outsourcing here, a lot of foundations, a lot of these so-called trust funds, and for example, the foundation for MOL's significant share has not even been defined for what purpose the outsourced public assets can be used for. So basically, the Foundation's board of trustees can use this public wealth for any purpose. This is completely outrageous! This is all about shoveling and robbing public property. It will be very telling, by the way, of the proposals that we have asked for a separate vote on tomorrow's day, so it will be possible for the Fidesz and KDNP representatives of the Parliament to express their intentions in this way and to give a clear opinion on what they think of control over public property, that this should be done by the National Assembly of Hungary, by the government, or by the Fidesz curators, who you are about to appoint to the head of the foundations that are now being established. I would like to ask Congressman Potter. You've been appointed to the board of trustees of a university as a pro-government politician. I would like to ask you why you have drafted a pro-government politician in relation to your appointment, so that next year, if there is a change of government, you will voluntarily give up your membership of the Board of Governors, or if you have formulated it, why you do not have the legal guarantees to do so, and that you agree that curators appointed by the current government will face a limit, whether in respect of foundations that maintain universities or trust foundations, only to be able to fill this post until they are 80 years old. Do you not think that, for example, in the case of foundations that maintain universities, the Senate should be given the opportunity to recall the curators, or, when necessary, to arrange for their replacement, and to lay down the conditions for their recall? [[19.00]] We will be curious to see how the pro-government representatives vote on the proposals for amendments to the vote for which they have been asked to vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-04-26-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor on behalf of the authors Schanda... [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: I volunteered to reflect.]] I'm sorry, I didn't see you on the screen. Then I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, Fidesz.
u2021-04-26-229	Dear House, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I feel addressed, and I am convinced that it is necessary for me to reflect on what you have said here. I am surprised by how narrowly and incompetently you are at the core of a university transformation that I believe has been the most significant in Hungarian higher education for decades. There have been a number of reforms on which there have been serious social debates, governments have been looking for solutions, reforms have been developed, and it has been shown that Hungarian higher education has lost its positions year after year, step by step compared to the world's top priority, and this is the process that the transformation now wants to change. I don't want to go into the details of that. It is clear that competing universities and colleges that are typical of the world have a serious financial background that Hungarian institutions that have barely been able to have in the past. In the year 2000, I had the opportunity to find out about Finland once in my first term as part of a bilateral inter-governmental, inter-governmental road. I asked her what kind of budget support the universities receive there. Our partners said that they wouldn't receive any budget support, that the university could manage from its contracts with companies, from its own assets, from the contributions of guest students, and that it would actually sustain itself. So there are foreign models that, I believe, have also played a major role in the development of this reform and transformation. I believe that the most important thing is that Hungarian higher education and university education should be at the highest possible level, have the most serious background, and if the change in the form of operation is the establishment of foundation structures, which can be based on a sufficient legal guarantee, I think that this direction is a right direction and should be taken into account. Covid, as a pandemic, is an extremely big problem, but I do not think that it is an obstacle for the Hungarian state to make important decisions and strategic decisions, in this case, in relation to the legislative proposal on the subject. As far as your question is concerned, when or when a member of the board of trustees resigns, who may have recently received an invitation: honourable Member, I take the view that if a man has a job, that task must be carried out. If there is a trust in him, to which it relates, that he must carry out some or all of his duties as a curatorial member or other, then he has an obligation to perform it as best he can. Don't take it as a boast, but I, who had been a minister for rural development for eight years, and therefore Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, was also a somewhat interim president of the European Union's Agricultural Minister's Council and the Environment Council, and I am convinced that to the best of my knowledge, I can do as much as possible in the Foundation's Curatorium to which the appointment as a trust is reflected in my direction. But in all the areas I'm working on, this is what I'm starting out from, not from actual political and other considerations. As far as the senate's relationship is concerned, honourable Member, I was able to follow your speech all the way there, but I am sorry, it is quite inconsistent, and it refers to the serious shortcomings of thinking in your case, if you assume that a Senate is making some decision regarding the Board of Trustees' membership of a maintenance fund. These organisations are largely independent of each other. So I think this reasoning is flawed in a number of ways. But I trust that the operating model, which has been successful in the West, shows this in a number of examples, the practice of which is already available in Hungary for a few months, will prove its validity in the future, so that Hungarian higher education can only win and only strengthen. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-26-230	Thank you very much, Congressman Potter. I give the floor to Mr. László Keresztes, leader of the group; you have almost one minute.
u2021-04-26-231	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, You've been in government ever since 2010. Why hasn't the development of higher education been addressed so far? Whose responsibility is it that in Hungary today the gross salary of a university assistant with a PhD is HUF 277,000? Do you consider this worthy? You have done great damage to Hungarian higher education in 10 years and 11 years. Because of the precarious situation and the humiliatingly low levels of teaching and research wages, many people have left higher education, who otherwise have spent their lives on it. What does the development have to do with the maintenance change? By the way, you didn't have the right basis for what you had to say. The best universities in Europe, the most well-known and well-known, are typically state-owned, and for most universities, Hungarian taxpayers will have to finance it now, but only in terms of decisions affecting universities will a curatorium appointed by you on a political basis. You do not guarantee the autonomy of universities with this decision, but the autonomy of the board of trustees of the foundations you have appointed. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We reject this with all our strength, and in 2022, if we are authorized by Hungarian voters, we will restore...
u2021-04-26-232	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, Fidesz.
u2021-04-26-233	Honourable Congressman, I see that by the end of the day, you've been completely unsure, because, I'm sorry, you've had to take action in relation to higher education in this government for the years after 2010, when the country had to come out of the global economic crisis, the destruction of your current allies in economics, culture and culture, and get back on its feet, so that's at least unfounded. Obviously, in order to make major changes in higher education or other serious systems, the country must reach a power-gathering phase. And then you can give wealth, then the Hungarian State can give budget support, if this is already available. This wealth has increased, which is what makes it possible, Prime Minister, that is what he referred to in relation to MOL, that such a transformation is now taking place at the right moment. There is one more thing I would like to tell you, honourable Member. I don't see any political candidates. I don't know why you say things like that. Take a look at the biography of the people in these foundation board. Undoubtedly, there are politicians among them, but their previous careers, preparation and professional history show that they have been successful before, have been effective in politics, and it is very useful to rely on their professional experience and public life experience in these foundations. I don't see any political candidates. You would only have those with respect to Ferenc Gyurcsány and his circle, for whom there is no professional competence, at most we hear such provocations and political lounges. Thank you. [[János Schanda applauds.]]
u2021-04-26-234	Thank you very much, Congressman Potter. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. I'm closing the debate now. I give the floor to State Secretary Tamás Schanda on behalf of the authors.
u2021-04-26-235	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me not to say the closing words that I had originally prepared, because Minister Fazekas has very well summarized the purpose and meaning of the bill, and I would be unworthy to repeat those thoughts after Minister, and I would rather try to reflect on what was said in the debate, even if the arguments and sentences made are very similar to what we had done during the plenary debate, including with Mr Keresztes. Allow me to draw attention to the fact that, for the sake of our common memory, for the sake of the protocol, Mr Keresztes continues to conduct an interesting opposition attitude, as he once again requires more government powers and less autonomy, partly for the Parliament, and partly for higher education institutions. Perhaps the congressman can also state that every driver's license for the government. This is an interesting proposal and an interesting suggestion, but I still think it is more appropriate to follow the direction that the legislative proposals generate to bring before the Parliament. [[19.10]] I must also draw attention not for the first time now, and I am uncertain that I will be able to explain it properly to Mr. Group Leader, because I have failed several times... I have also tried to interpret the bill several times for the Head of the Group, and I have not only tried to do so today, but also during the various political debates of the previous parliamentary days, that it is completely bogus, completely false news, a completely unfounded suggestion, which the Head of the Group regularly shouts and says, as many of us from the benches on the left, unfortunately he has joined this left-wing choir that it is something about outsourcing and privatisation. Mr President, if you look at the bill, it is quite clear and clear that a public service asset will be transferred here to a public trust fund. There is no private wealth here, no use of this wealth, no return of this wealth, as your political allies have brought home the state wealth, no use for anything other than the public purpose for which the Parliament establishes this trust fund. So once again, it is unnecessary to spread such false news, on the one hand, Member, and on the other hand, to make a substantive debate impossible if we are not being accused of true things. I am very happy to have a political and professional debate with you for hours. We do this regularly, we have the pleasure of dealing with each other's topics, and Mr Group Leader typically finds me with his various valuable comments and suggestions. It's an honor to be able to answer that every time. But we can only have a meaningful debate, Mr High Representative, if we are talking about facts and what is written in the legislation. If we're talking about something else that you have to repeat as some conspiracy theory or I don't know as a common mantra on the left, I'm sorry if that's your job, then we can't have a meaningful debate about it because it's not the right thing to discuss. I would also like to draw your attention, Mr Group Leader, to the fact that the question you raised in relation to autonomy is an exciting question, and it is indeed in connection with the issue of the Curatoriums. However, I must confirm what Minister Fazekas has said, and what we have also tried to say to you many times, is that, when these Curatoriums are created, people who are the defining members of the local economy, the academic sphere and public life will be included. There are no party political considerations, honourable Member. I know that everything in your party politics dominates, and it simply means the survival of your party, that it has two or four seats in the next election, but it is not a political issue. This is a more serious issue, the future of our universities is the future of Hungarian young people, and it is the future of our children, Member, that our children can learn at universities that prepare them for life, and that are truly competitive and stand up for them at international level. We think that it is our duty as dogs, our moral obligation, our nation's strategic goal to develop our own higher education institutions, the Hungarian higher education institutions as much as possible. So we have to do everything we can. A better model, a better institutional structure should be developed, where they can work more efficiently, more freely and with the necessary resources. That's what we do, Congressman. We give the institutions hundreds, thousands of billions of forints of development resources, and we are pleased that they will implement this in a structure where this money can be used as efficiently as possible. All this is necessary with the support and dynamism of the maintainers of a curatorium, which is interested in making this institution successful on the ground, so that local excellence can be promoted there, locally, to become a real centre of local economy, public life, cultural life, various human services. That's what we want. You're Pécsi. We want the University of Pécs to be more successful, more effective, and therefore we will do our best, even if you oppose it. We'll help the University of Pécs even if you don't take into account the decision of the Senate of Pécs. We will also help the University of Pécs if you do not understand that the university must be helped to function as efficiently as possible and the most effective way to prepare young Hungarians for the labour market or even for scientific life. On the other hand, when we talk about specific names, Congressman, you see party politics everywhere. I understand that, but the fact that Pál Veres, the left-wing mayor of Miskolc, was helped by you... [[Dr. László Keresztes is shaking his head.]] The LMP supported the mayor. You didn't support it? You're saying you didn't support the mayor of Miskolc on the left? That's because we're watching a different movie, Congressman. Your mayor will be admitted to the curatorium of the University of Miskolc. Since when is it our party policy goal to get left-wing mayors in? We can't. That's not the basis we're looking at the board. Or Katalin Szili. Katalin Szili cannot be accused of right-wing deflecting either, honourable Member. I don't think if you looked at Katalin Szili's résumé, you'd see that she was, say, a member of the Fidesz. So, Congressman, we cannot argue with false news and dreams, because the facts do not support what you say, but support what we say. But you could say Sándor Csányi. Since when is Sándor Csányi a fidesz politician? I do not understand, honourable Member, either the personal or the theoretical background of what you say about the Curatoriums. I also do not understand with regard to autonomy why the autonomy of higher education institutions would be reduced and why it would not increase. Congressman, the maintainer has already decided on a number of issues that you are criticizing. So far, the maintenance was the government. You say that more government decisions and less autonomy are needed. That's what he says. And we say that the institutions must be freed from bureaucratic requirements, and that is what we are doing to increase financial autonomy. They will operate more freely, not under public finances, perhaps even you can't deny that. We can also talk about organisational autonomy. Congressman, if you are freer to define how they can function effectively locally, the University of Pécs may have to function differently than the University of Debrecen, right? Or the University of Nyíregyháza or the University of Győr. It may have to work differently, and if, with organisational autonomy, they can invent other models and operate differently, it will allow us to operate more freely, Congressman. We also know about employer autonomy. That will also increase, honourable Member. Employee autonomy will increase to a large extent. We are separated from the inflexible central regulation, and a more flexible regulation is created that allows the world's leading teachers, scientists and researchers to be involved in Hungarian higher education and to train Hungarian young people. Congressman, you don't want to take this away from Hungarian higher education institutions. Although you have not mentioned this at the moment, the issue of research and education autonomy is often mentioned, and here the situation is quite clear and clear. We have a Fundamental Law, Your Honour. The Fundamental Law clearly states that higher education institutions have research and educational autonomy. So all the suggestions that you have said are completely unfounded, and I therefore hope that at least now, at the end of the debate, I will be able to put an end to all the anger and doubt in you, and I will be able to convince you that if you do not want to believe me, although I hope that I will be able to answer all your questions, then at least believe the institutions who want this change and want this amendment. Honourable Congressman, He raised questions about higher education as to why this has not happened so far and why it is happening now. I also think that Minister Fazekas has given a very good answer. [[19.20]] I'd just add a few little sentences to that. Congressman, don't you think it's a shame to take this out on us from a faction that is now working for the purpose of saying, accepting, absolutely proudly pinning it on your breast to help Ference Gyurcsány and his political circle back into power? [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: That's not true!]] Congressman, if you don't hear it from anyone else, you're working to get them back to higher education. That's why you work. I'm sorry, you're part of a small party. [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: No smaller than KDNP!]] They'll come back to power. That's why you work in person every day, which is why you're sitting here in Parliament. He is arguing with us to bring back to power those who introduced the tuition fee in Hungarian higher education, who owed Hungarian higher education institutions with PPP schemes, which was not good for the institutions, we still moan to this day, otherwise it was good for entrepreneurs on the other side. He wants to help back those who took a month's wages from higher education employees. Well, Congressman, are we to be held accountable for this? ! Even if we agree with you that although we have significantly increased the pay of higher education staff, we have significantly raised the PhD scholarship, but that is not enough. You won't hear anything from me that's enough. We would like to give you more, raise more, make more resources available to you. This is supported by the change of model. This will enable us to give better salaries, get more money there and, if possible, become more involved in industrial research, as well as in the economy, with which the institution and the academic and research colleagues working there will earn a safe living in the long term. Mr Congressman, my request is, therefore, not to attack us, but to show that it is better to support our policy, and it is better to support this change. It is better to help strengthen the autonomy of the institutions than to fight for this completely failed left, the left which has been completely discredited in higher education, which has harmed and corrupted Hungarian higher education wherever it could, on purpose or incompetence, to help the left back into power. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to support this bill and encourage its faction, and, as a last attempt, to convince the left-wing factions to support this amendment, as it helps Hungarian higher education institutions and helps young Hungarians. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-236	Thank you, Secretary Schanda. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Hausmann Foundation and on the application of assets to the Hausmann Foundation and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. Government referral T/15711. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I will give the floor to Mr Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-04-26-237	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed T/1571 on the Hausmann Foundation and on the asset allocation to the Hausmann Foundation. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 23 votes in favour, 7 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill before us is to maintain and care for the oeuvre, architectural and cultural heritage of the excellent architect, Alajos Hauszmann, to make it a unified collection, to create the Hauszmann Memorial House, and to promote the activities of the complex educational, research and documentary knowledge centre and experience center of traditional fine arts. The Foundation also launches support programmes for traditional crafts workers. The present bill provides for the establishment of the Foundation and, on the other hand, the provision of the State's assets to be provided by the founder for the performance of the tasks. I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-238	Thank you very much, Congressman Potter. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to speak. [[Tamás János Schanda: Thank you, not now.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. The speeches are now taking place in the time frame on the agenda, but I do not see a candidate on the screen. Dear Parliament, Therefore, the debate is closed and I would like to ask the rapporteur again that he wishes to speak at the end of the debate. [[Tamás János Schanda: Yes.]] It says yes. You have the floor.
u2021-04-26-239	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, I cannot add anything to the words of Minister Fazekas, so I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you.
u2021-04-26-240	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place tomorrow. The Commission's reports on the Foundation for the University of Szeged, the Foundation for the University of Szeged and the Commission's report on the application of assets to the University of Szeged and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal follow. Government referral T/15712. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal is held as a minority item by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I will give the floor to Mr Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-04-26-241	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the Foundation for the University of Szeged, the Foundation for the University of Szeged and the T/15712. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 21 votes in favour, 11 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, In the institutional development plans of each higher education institution, a change of course in higher education, as defined by the strategy, has appeared in many cases since the beginning of 2021, with the aim of promoting the competitiveness of universities. In early 2021, ten universities, including the Senate of the University of Szeged, expressed the majority's intention that the university's future should take the form of a public-interest trust fund established by a state with a new public service mission. Therefore, the government, at the initiative of the Senate of the University of Szeged, provided in its decisions on the new model of operation and maintenance of the university, on the one hand, as a maintainer of the University of Szeged, on the other hand, on the tasks related to the establishment of a Foundation for the University of Szeged and on the other hand, the provision of state assets necessary for the establishment and operation of the University of Szeged. The proposal also includes the transfer to Szeged University of Szeged of the service provider of fertility-related health services, formerly operating as the Kaal Institute, and the provision of property management for the provision of tasks, thus settling the fate of artificial insemination centres at medical and health sciences universities in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, The University of Szeged is scheduled to be among the best four hundred universities in the world by 2025, and its fields of excellence will be among the best two hundred. The University will be a reference institution for digital education, and its economic and social development functions can become the centre of the renewal of the Southern Lowland region. I trust these ideas will come true. I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[19.30]]
u2021-04-26-242	Thank you very much, Congressman Potter. Dear Parliament, I ask the author whether it's now or at the end... [[For signal:]] Thank you, Secretary Schanda. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. I give the floor to Imre Ritter, a national representative, the rapporteur of the committee of Hungarian ethnicities related to the debate, who describes the first sentences in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor, Congressman Ritter.
u2021-04-26-243	Thank you. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nr. T/15712. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the Foundation for University of Szeged, the Foundation for University of Szeged and the T/15712. In the context of the legislative proposal No. I would like to inform the House that the bill was discussed in detail at the meeting of our committee on 13 April 2021 as an associated committee and concluded that the bill was in line with the House Rule 44. Paragraph 1 of this Article. Our committee did not comment on the amendment proposed by its representatives to the bill, nor did the committee intend to make any further amendments, so the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary did not submit a proposal for an amendment closing a detailed debate on the Commission. At the same time, it is closely linked to the agenda by the T/15728 to be discussed as a later item on the agenda. I have tabled a separate amendment to the bill on the regulation of higher education and amending certain related laws. In particular, the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. Law 64. § 4 requires the Minister to obtain the opinion of the National National Nationality Council in his decisions regarding ethnic education. In the new and model-changing universities that are subject to public foundation reservations, such as the University of Szeged, the Public Foundations, in our case the University of Szeged Foundation, will take over the maintenance role of the State, and instead of the Minister, the Boards will decide, for example, on the strategic issues of universities, including on issues relating to ethnic education. Therefore, according to my amendment tabled, the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. Law 73. I quote the following paragraph (3a) is added to Article 3 of the Act:. The National Nationality Council shall obtain the opinion of the national minority council for the decisions of the maintainer in relation to the education of nationality. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is the only guarantee for nationalities in Hungary in the case of higher education and education in the field of ethnicity in the University of Szeged, and I therefore respectfully ask for my amendment and the adoption tomorrow of the bill that it concerns. In view of this, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities on the Foundation for the University of Szeged, the Foundation for the University of Szeged and the T/15712. It supports and proposes to this House the adoption of bill No. Thank you for your attention. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-26-244	Thank you very much, Congressman Ritter. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to take part in their speeches within the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Szabó, MSZP.
u2021-04-26-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the debate, I think that I have explained in detail my position as a Member, how and how we have lived in the city to develop this form of foundation. We explained how we experienced the Senate meeting, where there were actually no laws to be followed, there were social violations, and there was actually footage of how the Rector blackmailed the university deans, that the various faculties would not receive money for development if they could not otherwise support the foundation's operation. We also said that instead of the state, it is not just a curatorium that will actually exercise maintenance rights for ever, but it is also about the fact that the University of Szeged was actually founded a hundred years ago, and the citizens made a very serious financial offer. We were very saddened by the fact that the government of Szeged and its citizens with a thousand connections to the university had this idea that the university would operate as a foundation in the future; it did not, in any way, inform him, and it is sad that he did not seek the opportunity to engage in dialogue. I also said that we actually did a survey in the city. In the city, two thirds of the people did not support the foundational function of the University of Sciences, nor does it support the operation of the University of Szeged by eternal curators. Finally, we have also said that we see that this change of maintenance is not actually for the common good, essentially to secure the power of Fidesz for ever. After all, we know precisely that in the Curatoriums, Fidesz Members and Fidesz officials will be given a seat, and in agreement with my fellow Member, we actually see that the transfer of power will take place for the next time. Of course, we will not support the proposal. Thank you for the floor. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-04-26-246	Thank you very much, Congressman Szabó. I now give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, Head of the Group.
u2021-04-26-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Yes, as opposition representatives, it is our job to listen to the pro-government speeches here relatively calmly, even if sometimes it becomes personal, extremely, deeply cynical, as I have just experienced from you. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: You've been personal.]] At the same time, we are consistently telling you what you are really doing. So what they're doing now is not the development of higher education, it's not a model change, it's universities, university decision-making, university property, outsourcing of university assets and putting them under political control. They're not even trying to explain it, because whoever's looking into it sees that there's no concept behind it. But if we look at what you have done since 2010, you can see that you have put higher education under constant attack, we are talking about the University of Szeged, that the number of students in the University of Szeged has decreased by 8,000 between 2008 and 2018. So it can be seen that in the last ten years there has been a loss of strength, especially in rural higher education institutions. It is quite amazing that not so long ago, even in June of last year, Minister Palkovics said that the largest rural universities will not be affected by this change of model. And by the way, we had a long discussion here with the Secretary of State Bódis about a year ago, who also talked about the fact that this is not yet the case for the largest universities in rural areas, and that further changes to models could happen if the first few institutions could be converted and outsourced, and that meaningful experiences could be gathered. Compared to this, you have clearly been blackmailing these universities into the process you call a model change, which I call outsourcing. But it is not true that the Senates of these universities, especially of the great rural universities, have chosen to do so, as we read in the letter of the law, that virtually one of you does, whatever the Secretary of State says, cannot be called back by political commissaries, can make every decision about universities. [[19.40]] You can lie here, Mr. Secretary of State, about university autonomy, but when laws are brought before this House that the Board of Trustees of the Foundation can take up decisions concerning all universities, it's actually a lie. So what university autonomy is it when the Board of Governors may decide, where appropriate, on the university's budget; when the Board of Governors may decide on the organizational and operational regulations, so it can determine, for example, what powers the Senate may have; when the Board of Governors may decide, where appropriate, even to call for a rector's application? You are basically organizing these huge universities with enormous wealth and enormous intellectual potential and giving them to fidesz cadres. This is absolutely amazing and outrageous! You can talk about how important it is to improve higher education. Well, it shouldn't have been spoken about, it should have been done since 2010 with a two-thirds mandate. You have had every authority and opportunity to improve higher education, but you have failed to do so. Shame and shame, Mr. Secretary. Are you satisfied with your own performance? They've been ruling since 2010. In the present case, in 2021, an assistant with a doctoral degree has a gross salary of HUF 277,000. You've done this in 11 years? This is outrageous! You have nothing but the desire to acquire and make decisions and obtain the provision of EU development resources. In fact, we tell the University of Szeged that, even in such a summation debate, it has about 22,000 students. We are talking about one of the most important universities in the country, with a huge tradition, huge values, huge spiritual potential. It has about 9,000 employees, so it determines the lives of thousands of families, thousands of families are provided by the university, of which 1,700 are teachers. Incredibly valuable properties belong to the University of Szeged. You are now simply outsourcing this huge value, this patina university, this great university with huge traditions. This is unparalleled and outrageous! You can scold the governments before 2010, and I do it a lot, and I make a lot of criticism about the activities of the governments at the time. And I add, don't worry, I see you're very concerned about what's going to happen next year in the election, we're not working to bring back that pre-2010 period; we're working to overthrow your nation-treasoning government, but then to enforce a whole other policy; we're definitely not going back to the pre-2010 situation. But even those governments wouldn't have tried to outsource and put universities under political control in such a despicable way. And that, Mr. Secretary, I don't know how to describe it, and I don't want to be personal, as you did, that you're referring to my party, and you're joking with the power of my party, and I wouldn't do that if I were you. It turned out to me the other day, I was a little surprised, but obviously it's important information that you're vice president of the party formation KDNP. Well, Mr. Secretary of State, this party has practically climbed the body of Fidesz as a parasite and pretending to be a political organization with social support, even though you are a department, a department at such a level of communication. My party got into Parliament three times, courtesy of the voters, three on its own into the National Assembly. I therefore do not harm your party, but I ask you to respect the electorate's decision, honor the electorate's decision in 2018, when the LMP was authorized to do its work in this Hungarian Parliament with a 7 percent result. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, in your speeches, please try to return to the professional content, to return to the laws that we are talking about here, not to take it towards personalism, and not to try to smuggle such a pointless party political debate into it. I don't think it's healthy for a KDNP politician. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-04-26-248	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, Fidesz.
u2021-04-26-249	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I had no intention of commenting at this stage of the debate, but Mr László László Keresztes, Group leader, whom I appreciate by the way, and I have also considered his calm comments to be a fresh spot on the opposition side with some exaggeration, yet it makes me want to reflect on a few things. Well, Mr. Group Leader, I suggest you take a look back on the tape here today, and it may be exhausting for you after afternoon and evening. You're constantly personalizing, decomposing people from under Gyurcsány's armpits, judging people who I think are persons, aren't you? [[Tamás János Schanda: That's right!]] , without differentiation in any way between them. That's one thing. The other is, honourable Member, that it would be worth looking at the biographies of all the curators, and then you would also face the fact that what you say is also untrue, politically and in the field of facts. And the next thing you know, it's university autonomy. It is also apparent from the legislation, from the change of model compared to the ministries, from the foundation structure, that the autonomy of universities will increase in the coming period, so it will move from official state organisations in a socialised and professional direction. This is an important element of the change of model, or closer to the economy, closer to the social context in which universities operate. And it can't be a coincidence if I've seen the Senate of ten universities here expressing their willingness to take on this model, willing to take advantage of the opportunity that the legislator creates. I think we should respect this autonomous decision. There was an MSZP representative here, he's already gone out, but he's also used some pretty serious words, it's worth a special comment, I think. This is also zeal, DK seems to be a hero of democracy, which assesses the public mood in Szeged in connection with the development of a university. I don't know, there was a survey in Szeged about the reduction in the wages of university staff a month. Was there a survey in Szeged? And then I could give you some examples that I'm sure would have had some interesting results. So I fear that the MSZP should not be seen as a hero of democracy in this case, but as those who, for how many years, have not been able to present any relevant, forward-looking measures at universities, but, at the same time, here on the shoreline, they want to tell us what should be done differently. I regret that the other official duties of the Member did not allow him to be here. I suspect he's a Szeged, maybe he deserves more from his point of view and from Szeged's point of view. I went to this university, the University of Szeged, and I thought it was important for me to comment, because this university has been a modern, competitive higher education institution in this country since its founding, and for this to be the case in the future, and for the goals it has set to be among the best, to be a knowledge centre, to give a competitive degree, to achieve it, I think this model provides a guarantee. That is why it is appropriate to support this, as I have said, as an extension of the autonomy of universities, to strengthen their relations either through foundations or through other educational programmes with the economic, social and cultural medium. That is why it is important for this model change to go through with it. Of course, there's a hundred thousand more ways to say outsourcing and stuff. I do not want to get involved in such a grammatical debate, but, honourable Member, as a Member of Parliament, legislator, you do not doubt that, in Hungary, either in relation to the conditions of higher education, or in other living conditions, the foundation, ministry, association, I do not know what we call the specific governing organisation, but in the context of this proposal, Parliament's legislative right sets the foundations for institutional operations, and the government's regulation, the ministry's rights to standardise provide sufficient guarantees that a form of foundation should work within a legally well-defined framework. Thus, the concerns raised by you, at least I think, are irrelevant, and you will be able to choose an operational model, I have already referred to this, which has already been proven in several cases abroad. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-26-250	Thank you, Congressman Potter. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll give you the floor, if you'd like, Mr. Secretary of State. [[On the sign of Tamás János Schanda:]] You have the floor.
u2021-04-26-251	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me, first of all, to thank Minister Fazekas once again for his excellent presentation, in which he presented the purpose of the bill before Parliament. I am not worthy of supplementing this in substance, since it contained all the important details, including the points that have changed and been added to the work of the Parliament. [[19.50]] I also thank Mr Ritter for his proposal to improve, and thank you for helping us with this. However, let me try to respond at some point to the criticisms and comments that left-wing Members have been trying to express about the left, and they have done so, despite the fact that we have also, I think, had detailed and exhaustive discussions over the past period. Allow me, honourable Members, to start by telling you that I find the debates in which you accuse us of disrespecting and not wanting to give proper support to higher education institutions strange; to express these criticisms, in fact, you do not respect the autonomy of these institutions and your own freedom. [[Dr. László Keresztes turns towards Lóránt.]] Congressman, if you say that you believe in the autonomy of higher education, whether you say it or not, Mr Szabó, if you say that you believe in the autonomy of higher education, then how can it be that you ignore the opinion of the main decision-making body of the university, the Senate? Why do you think... I have here, I have all the members of the Senate of the University of Szeged, a description of the names and works of those serious people, serious teachers, leaders who, for example, are at the University of Szeged, Senate of Szeged as decision-makers if you think I can read it to you, but I think you can go on the Internet and find it. Here we are talking about very serious people, serious career paths, serious commitment to the university, those whose lives, most often their own universities, who do not want to develop anything more than their own institutions, want to be better for that institution and better for students who can do their own teaching and research work better, more freely and more effectively. And you question these people's decision. You're against autonomy, you're against higher education, you ignore the opinions of professors, teachers, researchers, employees at the university, Congressman. That's what they do. They stand up in Parliament, they demand more autonomy, and you're the first! Who, by the way, would do anything to undo college decisions. That is the case, Congressman, and therefore the policy that you are pursuing is incomprehensible. We really didn't plan on changing the model of new institutions. I can confirm to you what you are always reading on my head for the eighth time; I will say it for the eighth and tenth time, Minister Palkovics has quite rightly said, when you quote, you are absolutely right to say that we do not wish to initiate the model change of any more higher education institutions. We didn't. The Senates of higher education institutions have called for these model changes to take place. They knew the opportunity, we talked to them about the opportunity, but basically they asked for it, they initiated it, they suggested it. And you stand up as a congressman and think you're smarter than the entire Senate of the University of Szeged. For me, it's incomprehensible. It is incomprehensible to me that socialists and other left-wingers, such as LMPs, and other left-wing Members, want to fundamentally question the decision of the Senate members. The University of Szeged has made a clear decision, Member: 29 yes, 16 no, 7 abstentions, the vast majority, and by far the vast majority agreed to the change of model and initiated it. And you want to question him here in Parliament. Congressman, this is incomprehensible, and it shows well the perverse policy that you are pursuing, because you are, in fact, anti-university and anti-autonomous. That is the case, honourable Member. On the other hand, his arguments do not stop. I have just, and I would not repeat myself, in view of the late hour, but we should not leave these sentences pending, Member, and I have most recently, in the debate on the previous bill, explained to you in detail how, from the perspective of the various types of autonomy, the individual higher education institutions, in all respects, are increasing their freedom, scope and scope. But let me also draw attention to what I have done many times, but for some reason you do not want to hear that there will be a maintenance change; otherwise, the maintainer has already decided on the rector, the budget. Do you think it looked like the institution had put together a budget, and by the way, as big as they dreamed, they could have spent it on so much? Of course not, Congressman. I understand that you have not yet had the opportunity to gain government experience, but you can see that if the state is the maintainer, then, by the way, the state's maintenance function, there are a number of countless ways of adopting the budget. You have the right, obligation and responsibility, honourable Member. The same is true of any other question, however, about the rector, the sms, and it could be added that you are otherwise trying to talk about various acts of autonomy, while here, I say once again, you are not reducing, but increasing the autonomy and opportunities of higher education institutions. On the other hand, you have asked me here that we are proud of our performance in the field of higher education. Congressman, I think you do. In 2014, the strategy "Training in Higher Education" was completed, and in 16 we updated it, under the leadership of Minister Palkovics, he was still the State Secretary for Higher Education, and I was able to work with him even then, because we worked in a ministry, and we are proud that we have been moving forward gradually and planfully since then, where we have also determined that there is a need to change the operating environment of higher education institutions. It was written in black and white, honourable Member, and, yes, we can look in the mirror, although we know that we still have a lot to do with these proposals, but we can look in the mirror; which I do not know how you can do, I say once again, so that you work for a higher education, however you try not only to public opinion, but I believe that you also want to deceive yourself by not wanting to bring back the failed left-wing higher education policy, but that is why you work every day to get back the tuition, to come back PPPs, to come back to pay cuts, to come back to the Hungarian higher education. Congressman, you can't fool the public, but I hope you can't fool yourself, so I really feel sorry for you, and I don't want to hold you accountable. And if you've taken negative comments about your party, then it's more of an empathy for your desperate and difficult party. I understand that you have to represent such positions, because you are in a difficult situation, and I am trying to exonerate you, because you cannot be serious about all the things that you have to say here in Parliament. I was trying to protect and help you, by the way. Besides, although it does not belong to today's debate, I would not mention it for a long time, I am proud to be a member and member of the Barankovics Party, which worked even before communism and continued to perform important tasks after the change of regime. Congressman, I am proud of this, and I would like to talk to you once, in a different situation, about the past, present and future of the Hungarian Christian democracy. Thank you for your attention, and I ask the Parliament to support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-252	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Foundation for the Hungarian University of Dance Arts, the Foundation for the Hungarian University of Dance Arts and the presentation on the asset allocation to the Hungarian University of Dance Arts and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal will follow. Government referral T/15713. , can be found on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate, and before I give the floor to Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee, I will give the chair of the meeting to Vice-President Hiller. Congressman Potter, you have the floor. [[20.00]] (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2021-04-26-253	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the Foundation for the Hungarian University of Dance, the Foundation for the Hungarian University of Dance and the T/15713. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour, 9 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, In the renewed institutional development plans of each higher education institution at the beginning of 2021, the direction or need of a change of career in higher education has appeared in a number of cases since 2016 as a model for the competitiveness of universities. At the beginning of 2021, the Senate of ten universities, including the Hungarian University of Dance Arts, expressed its majority intention that the university's future be realized as a new public-service trust fund. Therefore, the government, in its decision on the new operating and maintenance model of the university, at the initiative of the Senate of the Hungarian University of Dance Arts, provided for tasks related to the foundation of the Hungarian University of Dance Arts, and the provision of state assets for the establishment and operation of the university. Ladies and gentlemen, The university's mission is to fully educate students and students in dance arts, as well as to teach arts at an international, extremely high level. I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-26-254	Thank you very much. Good evening. We'll get back to work. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to speak to me now. [[Tamás János Schanda says no.]] Secretary Schanda says no. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I would like to inform you that a two-minute comment is not possible. Dear Parliament, Anybody want to tell me? [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. It is my duty to ask, although it is logically unnecessary that the Secretary of State has something to say and reflect now.
u2021-04-26-255	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I respectfully ask the Parliament to support the bill.
u2021-04-26-256	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Foundation for the University of Dunaújváros, the Foundation for the University of Dunaújváros and the Commission's report on the application of assets to the University of Dunaújváros will follow in a series of discussions and a summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/15714. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the Legislative Committee can give its opinion. The rapporteur for the committee is Mr Sándor Fazekas. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-257	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/15714 on the grant of assets to the Dunaújváros University Foundation, the University of Dunaújváros and the University of Dunaújváros. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour, 9 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, In the renewed institutional development plan of certain higher education institutions, the need for a change in the model for the competitiveness of universities has appeared in several cases since 2016 as a step-up in higher education. At the beginning of 2021, the Senate of 10 universities expressed its intention that the future of the university should take the form of a public-service trust fund established by a state. Therefore, the Government, in its decision on the new model of operation and maintenance of the University of Dunaújváros, at the initiative of the Senate of the University of Dunaújváros, provided for tasks related to the establishment of a Foundation for the University of Dunaújváros, and the provision of state assets for the establishment and operation of the university. Dear House, The University of Dunaújváros is the organizer of the knowledge platform of the domestic nuclear industry, its main training and innovation base, which aims to become a key knowledge service organisation for industry players, as it aims to be a recognised base for economic higher education and vocational training in the region. In view of this, I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-26-258	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, would you like to speak now? [[Tamás János Schanda says no.]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. There will be speeches by Members; no two-minute speeches. Would anyone like to speak, Honourable Parliament? [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, do you have anything to say? [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2021-04-26-259	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you, on the one hand, Minister Fazekas, for his excellent presentation on the proposal, and, on the other hand, I would ask the Parliament to support the bill. Thank you.
u2021-04-26-260	Thank you very much. Decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting, Honourable Parliament. The Commission's reports on the transfer of the maintenance rights of Eszterházy Károly University to the Egri County and on the related asset allocation will follow in a series of discussions and a summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/15715. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The legislative committee will be the first to give its opinion in the debate. Once again, I give the floor to Minister Fazekas. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-261	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the transfer of the maintenance rights of Eszterházy Károly University to the Eger County and the related asset allocation T/15715. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour, 9 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, On the initiative of the Senate of Eszterházy Károly University, the government supports the maintenance change of the university. With the change of maintenance, the university becomes an educational institution of the Hungarian Catholic Church, and it is reserved for the Egri Archdiocese. At the same time, the transfer of the property related to the provision of tasks will take place, and the name of the higher education institution will be changed to Károly Eszterházy Catholic University. Ladies and gentlemen, CHAPTER XXI At the beginning of the century, a structure suitable for a modern world, but built on traditions and values, can be completed by passing the university to the county of the Archdiocese. From the point of view of the Archdiocese, the organic unity of institutions of different levels within the Roman Catholic Church can be restored. On the one hand, the university will provide a professional supply of ecclesiastical institutions, and on the other hand it will provide the county of the Archdiocese with an opportunity to provide training opportunities from primary school to doctoral school in the entire educational range. The strategic objective is to strengthen the international position of the university, both in educational and cultural areas. In view of this, I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-26-262	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, you'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] No. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. I now give the floor to Imre Ritter, a national representative, the rapporteur of the committee of Hungarian ethnicities related to the debate, who describes the first sentences in the language of nationality in German and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go. [[20.10]]
u2021-04-26-263	Thank you. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nr. T/15715. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the transfer of the maintenance rights of Eszterházy Károly University to the Eger County and the related asset allocation T/15715. In the context of the legislative proposal No. I would like to inform the House that the bill was discussed in detail at the meeting of our committee on 13 April 2021 as an associated committee and concluded that the bill was in line with the House Rule 44. Paragraph 1 of this Article. Our committee did not comment on the amendment proposed by its representatives to the bill, nor did the committee intend to make any further amendments, so the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary did not submit an amendment closing the Commission's in-depth debate. At the same time, this agenda is closely linked to the T/15728, which will be discussed as a later item on the agenda. I have tabled a separate amendment to the bill on the regulation of higher education and amending certain related laws. In particular, the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. Law 64. § 4 requires the Minister to obtain the opinion of the National National Nationality Council in his decisions regarding ethnic education. In this case, the new and model-changing university, such as the Eszterházy Károly University, which is on the agenda, will take over the maintenance role of Egri's Egyház County from the state, and instead of the minister, the maintainer will decide, for example, on the strategic issues of the university, including on issues relating to ethnic education. Therefore, according to my amendment tabled, the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. Law 73. The following paragraph 3a is added to Article 3a of the Treaty, and I quote: "The national minority council shall obtain the opinion of the national minority council in its decisions regarding the national minority training. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is the only guarantee for nationalities in Hungary in the case of higher education and education of nationalities at Eszterházy Károly University, and I therefore respectfully ask for my amendment and the adoption tomorrow of the bill it concerns. With this in mind, knowing and in hope, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities on the transfer of the maintenance rights of the Eszterházy Károly University to the Eger County and the related asset allocation T/15715. It supports and proposes to this House the adoption of the legislative proposal. Thank you for your kind attention. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2021-04-26-264	Thank you very much. We now have speeches from Members. No two-minute comments. Congressman Sándor Fazekas, representative of Fidesz, has come forward. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-265	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I thought it was important to comment on this extremely important decision, which will be voted on tomorrow, because I believe that it has a symbolic value, because a Catholic university will be established in Eger following the decision of the Parliament as a result of a series of coordinated decisions by the University of Eger and the Church. Everyone must have seen the Eger Líceum, a beautiful historic building, and if I want to put it very briefly, then everyone must know what the guides said, the tourist publications contain that it was built for the purpose of a Catholic university by a great Hungarian patriot, Károly Eszterházy, who did not spare the resources of his own and the bishopric. After all, the idea was to have a higher education institution with more faculty in the eastern part of the country. Unfortunately, this plan could not be implemented, the Viennese Court did not allow it; medical training was also started, the right to donate a doctor's title was revoked. So this extremely noble and important institution development was not possible at the time. Later, the institutions of the university were established, but that's a different story. So the Viennese Court has thwarted this initiative, and that is why it is also important to provide symbolic justice from history, if you like, for Catholics, for the Catholics of the Egri Diocese and for all Hungarian Catholics, but for all people who believe in Hungarian values and values, that the Catholic University will be established here, ensuring that the region will be strengthened and that young people with competitive knowledge and a high level of knowledge will be able to work for Hungarian interests, to do, to start a family, to stand in market competition, to find their place in the most diverse sectors and in various fields of expertise. I trust the Parliament will accept the draft tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-266	Thank you very much. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to speak to me now.
u2021-04-26-267	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I can only join in the words of Minister Fazekas myself, and I am trying not to keep this House going, but it is a bill that has greater significance than itself and is somehow linked to historical justice. This is a symbolic case, since Eger's Eszterházy Károly University will be maintained by the Eger County of Egri and will continue to function as a Catholic institution. Here I can only confirm that I am very grateful to be here on behalf of the government and represent it, I have represented it so far, and today is also the day of this bill. I sincerely hope that, because of the historical history, the history of the past and the very specific history of the institution, even those left-wing Members will support this bill tomorrow, who do not support the change of maintenance of other institutions for all sorts of alleged reasons. But here, it would not be in the maintenance of a foundation, but in the maintenance of the Archdiocese of Egri, this higher education institution, so I sincerely trust, and there was no fundamental opposition in the debate, so I sincerely trust, and I ask in particular the Members of Parliament in the left-wing group to support this bill as a joint matter. After all, the university itself decided to ask that he be involved in the maintenance change, and that the Catholic Church's Archdiocese of Egri should be its new maintainer, and the county of the Archdiocese will gladly undertake this task. A county of the Archdiocese with significant and exemplary institutional maintenance experience, whether in the field of public education or vocational training, therefore understands the functioning of education and will complement its educational activities, for example, the educational training that takes place at Eszterházy Károly University. So all I really want to ask, Mr President, and I will end here, from every member of the Parliament, is to support the bill that has been tabled tomorrow, because it is a matter which goes beyond itself, a symbolic story. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-268	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to comment? [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. [[20.20]] Mr. Secretary, may I consider your thoughts to be closed? [[Tamás János Schanda nods.]] Thank you very much. So I will inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Tokaj-Hegyalja University Foundation, the Tokaj-Hegyalja University Foundation and the Tokaj-Hegyalja University asset allocation and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal will follow. Government referral T/15716. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Mr Gábor Törő, rapporteur for the committee. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-269	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the Tokaj-Hegyalja University Foundation, the Tokaj-Hegyalja University Foundation and the Tokaj-Hegyalja University, T/15716. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour, 11 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, In the renewed institutional development plans of each higher education institution, the direction of the transition in higher education since 2016 to promote the competitiveness of universities appeared in several cases at the beginning of 2021. At the beginning of this year, the Senate of ten universities expressed a majority intention for the future of the university to take the form of a new public interest trustee, founded by a state. The Senate of Eszterházy Károly University supported the maintenance change of the institution and the separation of Comenius Campus from Sárospataki, thus the Tokaj-Hegyalja University was established as a new institution. In its decision on the operating and maintenance model of the University of Tokaj-Hegyalja, the government provided for tasks related to the establishment of the Tokaj-Hegyalja University Foundation as a maintenance member of the university and on the tasks related to the provision of state assets for the establishment and operation of the university. Ladies and gentlemen, The development of the university is suitable for the social and economic catching up of the city and the region in the long term with international winery training, educational training with comenius values, multifaceted tourism education programmes and cultural heritage research, but actively innovating activities. I ask this House to support this proposal. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-270	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like to speak now? [[For signal:]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. I now give the floor to Imre Ritter, a national representative, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, who describes the first sentences in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-271	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nr. T 15716's force field. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the Tokaj-Hegyalja University Foundation, the Tokaj-Hegyalja University Foundation and the Tokaj-Hegyalja University's asset allocation T/15716. In the context of the legislative proposal No. I would like to inform the House that the bill was discussed in detail at the meeting of our committee on 13 April 2021 as an associated committee, and unanimously stated that the bill was in line with the House Rule 44. Paragraph 1 of this Article. Our committee did not comment on the proposal for an amendment to the bill, nor did the committee intend to make an amendment, so the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary did not submit an amendment closing a detailed debate on the Commission. At the same time, this agenda is closely linked by the T/15728 to be discussed as a later item on the agenda. I have tabled a separate amendment to the bill on the regulation of higher education and amending certain related laws. In particular, the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. Law 64. § 4 requires the Minister to obtain the opinion of the National National Nationality Council in his decisions regarding ethnic education. The Tokaj-Hegyalja Foundation will take over the maintenance role of the state in the case of the new Tokaj-Hegyalja University, as well as the new Tokaj-Hegyalja University on the agenda, in the case of public foundations, and instead of the minister, the Boards will decide, for example, on the strategic issues of universities, including on issues relating to ethnic education. Therefore, according to my amendment tabled, the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. Law 73. The following paragraph 3a is added to Article 3a of the Act:. The National Nationality Council shall obtain the opinion of the national minority council in its decisions in respect of national minority training. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is the only guarantee for nationalities in Hungary in the case of higher education and ethnic education at Tokaj-Hegyalja University, and I therefore respectfully ask for my amendment and the adoption tomorrow of the bill that it concerns. In view of this, with the knowledge and hope of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary on the Tokaj-Hegyalja University Foundation, the Tokaj-Hegyalja University Foundation and the Tokaj-Hegyalja University, T/15716. It supports and proposes to this House. Thank you very much for your attention. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-272	Thank you very much. The members' speeches will follow. No two-minute comments are possible. Would anyone like to speak, Honourable Parliament? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-04-26-273	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you for what has been said in this debate and the sentences of Mr Broken and of Mr Ritter. All I have to do is ask the Parliament with great respect to support the bill.
u2021-04-26-274	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Foundation for the Budapest University of Economics, the Foundation for the Budapest University of Economics and the proposal for a comprehensive amendment will follow. Government referral T/15717. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Mr Gábor Törő, rapporteur for the committee. Here.
u2021-04-26-275	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the Foundation for Economic University of Budapest, the Foundation for Economic University of Budapest and the T/15717. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour, 11 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, In the renewed institutional development plans of each higher education institution, the direction of the transition in higher education since 2016 to promote the competitiveness of universities appeared in several cases at the beginning of 2021. At the beginning of this year, the Senate of ten universities expressed a majority intention for the future of the university to take the form of a new public-service trust fund, founded by a state. [[20.30]] Therefore, the Government, in its decision on the new operating and maintenance model of the university at the initiative of the Senate of the Budapest University of Economics, provided for tasks related to the establishment of the Foundation for the Budapest University of Economics, on the one hand, and on the other hand the tasks related to the provision of state assets for the establishment and operation of the university. Ladies and gentlemen, The Budapest University of Economics is a university of leading applied sciences in Central Europe, creating and sharing relevant knowledge with its students, business partners and social actors. Its aim, among other things, is to create an outstanding tourist knowledge centre in the region. I ask this House to support this proposal.
u2021-04-26-276	Thank you very much. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[No signal.]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. We now have representatives' speeches. No two-minute speeches are possible. Anybody want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-04-26-277	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would only ask the Parliament with great respect to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-26-278	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the application of assets to the Universitas Quinqueecclesiensis Foundation, the Universitas Quinqueecclesiensis Foundation and the University of Pécs University and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/15718. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the opinion of the Legislative Committee. I would like to inform you that there will also be a minority opinion. I give the floor to Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-279	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 22 April 2021, the Universitas Quinqueecclesiensis Foundation, the Universitas Quinqueecclesiensis Foundation and the University of Pécs T/15718. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 22 votes in favour, 8 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, In the renewed institutional development plans of certain higher education institutions, the direction of the transition in higher education since 2016 to promote the competitiveness of universities appeared in many cases at the beginning of 2021. The chapter of the Senate of 10 universities at the beginning of 2021 is the main intention of the university to achieve its future as a foundation founded by a public-interest trustee with a new public service mission. Therefore, the Government, in its decision on the new operating and maintenance model of the University of Pécs on the initiative of the Senate, provided for tasks related to the establishment of the Universitas Quinqueecclesiensis Foundation, which will be established as a maintenance member of the University, and on the tasks related to the provision of state assets for the establishment and operation of the University. Ladies and gentlemen, The University of Pécs will be the most effective higher education institution in Europe. Building on its excellence in training, research, innovation and patient care, it serves the economic and social renewal and development of South Transdanubia. I therefore call on this House to support this proposal. [[János Schanda applauds.]]
u2021-04-26-280	Thank you very much. A minority opinion will now be presented within a seven-minute timeframe at most. Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes, Mr. Group Leader, please.
u2021-04-26-281	Thank you, Mr. President. Excuse me, how many minutes do I have?
u2021-04-26-282	Seven.
u2021-04-26-283	Thank you very much. Indeed, we have listened to it many times today, we can say the same template text here in the case of university outsourcing. I do think that every time we hear this from the government, and I do not think of a Member, but in the debates that preceded it, whenever we have heard it from the Secretary of State and the MPs, we need to make clear what is really going on here. So this is not a model change in higher education, but a outsourcing of universities, university decision-making, university property and university property. Let me get this straight. And it is quite amazing and sad that in this process, and we have already debated about it here this evening, we have already included the largest rural universities, right, the universities of Szeged, Pécs and Debrecen, which, in addition to being one of the most important universities in the country, play a huge role in the economic and social edge of the given cities, counties and even the given regions. Typically, we are talking about the largest employers, they provide livelihoods for thousands of families, and this is, of course, perfectly true of the University of Pécs. Pécs, Baranya and the entire South-Transdanubian region have been a crisis-stricken region for a very, very long time between the 20 poorest, weakest-performing regions in the European Union and we can also say that Baranya is in a very difficult situation. The city of Pécs also does not need to be talked about for a long time, so that everyone is aware of the difficult economic situation they are in. The most important economic operator of Pécs, the most important employer of Pécs, will play a huge role in putting Pécs' economy on a new footing, and we will try not only to put the city, not only the county, but also the entire region, on the road to development. It is simply not true that this process was a voluntary offer from the University of Pécs. We were in a lucky position to have these Senate meetings in a relatively transparent manner and the various discussions here regarding the provoked, enforced model change, and indeed the university leaders said that there was a very strong pressure on the part of the government. However, there is no need to rely on the express thoughts of the university leaders, for not too long ago, at the meeting of the commission of the Parliament, Mr Vinnai expressed quite precisely what is going on here behind the outsourcing of universities. Mr Vinnai said that it is highly recommended to change models, since the university that misses the change of model also misses development resources. It was perfectly clear, by the way, when the university senate and, by the way, when drawing up the decisions of the faculty councils, that university representatives and university decision-makers were trying to move in the direction that they thought might be the lesser bad. The government's dictatorship was very clear, and the government's intention was very clear. So, technically, universities have been blackmailed into this process. At the same time, in the case of the University of Pécs, and here I refer back to the thoughts of the Secretary of State, it has been very firmly formulated that the university Senate does indeed have expectations. So they didn't want to give the government a blank cheque to conduct this outsourcing process at the discretion of the government, but they did say that the university Senate or the most important decision-making body had the opportunity to interfere with the structure of the board. Let these curators not be appointed until the end of time, let there be a possibility to recall, and let them be written out, in the letter of the law, guarantees that the decision-making rights of the university Senate on both scientific and professional matters, on any matter that fundamentally determines the future of the university, are guaranteed! That didn't happen. So here, Mr Secretary of State, you are going against the clear intention of the Senate of the University, and we, like me, Mr Mellar, have tabled proposals to the Parliament which have tried to enforce the guarantee elements formulated by university leaders, and you have said no, Honourable Secretary of State. So you also ignored the decision of Senators with a very serious professional record or members of the university Senate in the case of University of Pécs; and we are trying to represent it. So, in fact, contrary to your statement, Mr Secretary of State, opposition representatives are struggling to defend academic autonomy. You are talking about the fact that this would be some sort of pledge to the development of higher education, that the maintenance change is now taking place, and that public universities, together with their entire assets, should be organised into such private foundations. Well, your communications director, by the way, disproved that when you were here in the general debate about these outsourcings. Congressman Hollik admitted that this does not really mean anything in itself. So the fact that a maintenance change is taking place does not mean an improvement in itself. [[20.40]] But by the way, if we look at the fact that the most functioning and the most respected European universities are typically state-owned, then this fact also denies your idea that this maintenance change and outsourcing, the foundation outsourcing, would in any way be a condition for development. That's not true. In the case of universities, there is indeed a need for reforms that have an impact on better functioning. At the same time, this can be done without outsourcing, it can be done without you unpacking the university into a private foundation and putting Fidesz politicians back on top of universities uninvited. So it's an obvious lie that they're trying to establish the development of universities. Dear Secretary of State, You said that you can look in the mirror and are proud of what you have achieved in the field of higher education since 2010. And I can tell you to be ashamed of yourself. I told you about the number and number of students in higher education in earlier debates this evening. By the way, we can say that in the case of the three major rural universities, the number of students is reduced by about 30,000 during your administration. So we're talking about three big country universities. And that is a shameful figure in itself, which I have already mentioned, that at present, in 2021, the gross salary of a university assistant with a doctoral degree is HUF 277,000, and that is your shame, Mr. Secretary of State. And it is precisely because of your shameful policy in the field of higher education that so many of you have left the profession you have chosen and have spent a great deal of time studying and researching in the context of your profession. So, in the end, I can say that what you claim is unfounded was not a voluntary process: universities have been blackmailed into this process and the guarantees expressed by the universities and the university senates are being ignored by which universities and university decision-makers have otherwise contributed to this process. So you're the one who tricked the university senates. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-26-284	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr Secretary of State, as rapporteur, if you would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. I now give the floor to Imre Ritter, a national representative, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, who describes the first sentences in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-285	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nr. T 15718's force field. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the asset allocation to the Universitas Quinqueecclesiensis Foundation, the Universitas Quinqueecclesiensis Foundation and the University of Pécs T/15718. In the context of the legislative proposal No. I would like to inform the House that the bill was discussed in detail at the meeting of our committee on 13 April 2021 as an associated committee, and unanimously stated that the bill was in line with the House Rule 44. Paragraph 1 of this Article. Our committee did not comment on the amendment proposed by its representatives to the bill, nor did the committee intend to make any further amendments, so the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary did not submit an amendment closing the Commission's in-depth debate. At the same time, this agenda is closely linked to the T/15728, which will be discussed as a later item on the agenda. I have tabled a separate amendment to the bill on the regulation of higher education and amending certain related laws. In particular, the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. Law 64. § 4 requires the Minister to obtain the opinion of the National National Nationality Council in his decisions regarding ethnic education. The Universitas Quinqueecclesiensis Foundation will take over the maintenance role of the State in the case of universities that are subject to public foundation reservations, such as the University of Pécs on the agenda, the Universitas Quinqueecclesiensis Foundation, and instead of the Minister, the Boards will decide on the strategic issues of universities, including on issues relating to ethnic education. Therefore, according to my amendment tabled, the 2011 CCIV Act on National Higher Education is set at 73. The following paragraph 3a is added to Article 3a of the Act:. The National Nationality Council shall obtain the opinion of the national minority council in its decisions in respect of national minority training. This is the only guarantee for nationalities in Hungary in the case of higher education of nationalities, as well as in the case of the University of Pécs, and I therefore respectfully ask for my amendment and the adoption tomorrow of the bill that it concerns. In view of this, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities is the present, the Universitas Quinqueecclesiensis Foundation, the Universitas Quinqueecclesiensis Foundation and the T/15718. It supports the adoption of bill No. 1 and recommends it to this House. Thank you for your attention. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-26-286	Thank you very much. The members' speeches will follow. No two-minute comments are possible. Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP, may speak. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-287	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to quote the last thought you made on higher education when you were still in opposition. This is the attached idea contained in their 2009 European Parliament election programme, which says that knowledge must primarily be based on independent universities of the Hungarian, financially based and allocated capital and intellectually policy-free curators. So when you asked for a mandate before 2010 from the Hungarian electorate, you acknowledged that you were thinking towards political-free curators in the event of a change of model. What are they doing compared to this? We have seen that in recent years, in the case of universities that have already been pushed towards a so-called model change, government members have been specifically appointed, Fidesz party politicians have been appointed, and people close to Fidesz, former politicians, former officials and, where appropriate, municipal people have been appointed to both the board and the supervisory board. I have heard interesting manifestations in this debate. Secretary of State, isn't the appointment of Secretary Judit Varga a political decision? Or is the appointment of Minister Peter Szijjártó also not a political decision? You have appointed members of the government to curators of universities. How's that? So your confidence is clearly enjoyed by these government members now, but if it comes to a change of government in 2022, will these current government members feel that they no longer have the confidence of the government at that time? So they're giving you back your position? Have you expressed any expectations of the members of the government, the pro-government politicians, who have just been appointed by you, that, in the event of a change of government, they should voluntarily resign from their duties in the Board of Governors? This is a very, very important question. And because it justifies this turn of events, Mr Secretary of State, that in 2009, when you were still in opposition, clearly, clearly, in your programme, in your published programme, you stated that there was a need for non-political curators. And then I mentioned that the Senate decision of the University of Pécs was a relatively transparent, transparent procedure. Rector Attila Miseta said that the Senate supports the change of model under certain conditions. As such, he said that the Senate had a say in the structure of the Curatorium; that curators should not be chosen for eternal life, and that there should be a callback. Where are these guarantees, Mr. Secretary of State? You have repeatedly expressed the importance of the autonomy of universities, the respect of the university Senate. Where are these guarantees? Why doesn't the people proposed by the Senate as determined by the Senate get nominated by universities either at the University of Pécs or at the Curatorium of the University of Pécs? Why are they running for Fidesz politicians? Why can't you intend to recall these party politicians? Why don't you set a certain time limit for these politicians, these people, to fill their current position in the board of trustees? Also back to the University of Pécs: due to several events, lack of information and lack of opportunity for meaningful discussions, several online events were held. More than 800 participants attended: university staff, university students attended this several-hour online event, where members of the university Senate also spoke, university teachers. [[20.50]] Here an obvious informal vote was held by the participating university citizens and your dictatorship was rejected by an overwhelming majority. Why wasn't that taken into account? I'm moving on. The University of Pécs has about 20,000 students. I would also like to point out here that, thanks to your blessed activity in a very powerful quotation mark, the number of students of the University of Pécs has decreased by 10 500 during your ten-year, almost 11-year government. In particular, I know that humiliatingly low teaching wages have led many to leave the university teaching profession or the research profession. Similarly, the decline in the university is similar to that of Pécs, in this respect, that it can be seen that this is a tragically shocking process, because the number of university students in Pécs has fallen to such a great extent. But yet, this university has a huge role to play in the life of both the city and the region. The university has 7,000 employees, nearly 1900 instructors, and thousands of families in Pécs are provided by the university. There are many different training centres, including Kaposvár, Szombathely, Szekszárd and Zalaegerszeg. So you can see that it is not only one of the most important Hungarian universities in the countryside, but it is not just one of the most important Hungarian universities, but it is one of the most important players in the life of Pécs, Baranya and the whole region, the most important economic operator and by far the most important employer. The annual budget of the University of Pécs is far above the budget of the municipality of Pécs County. So we're not just talking about a university, we're talking about an extremely important actor, the most important player in the city's economic life, cultural and scientific life. Dear Secretary of State, What you're doing is a disgrace. In a few weeks, a dictatorship was beaten through the Senate, but even the criteria thus formulated by the Senate were ignored. They do not in any way provide the required conditions, the required guarantees have not been included in the system, which have been formulated by university decision-makers themselves. I can tell you, Mr Secretary of State, that in the case of such an important institution, such an important university of rural sciences, it would not have been possible in any way to make a decision without a very, very broad social consensus. Such an outrageous dictatorship could not have been carried out on this issue, making such an outrageous decision. On this issue, it could only have been a decision, a step that would have been accepted not only by the university leadership itself, but also by the society of the region concerned, by the decision-makers and public actors in the region concerned. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-04-26-288	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-04-26-289	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you for what you said in the debate. It is good that we can talk about this issue despite the late hour. Allow me to try to hold myself back on the issues that we have been debating here with the Member for hours now, and for many times now, I am speaking my arguments, and as if the Member did not want to hear these points, he would not want to hear the answers to his questions, and I should only try to repeat them very, very carefully, because it seems that my abilities are limited in terms of understanding with Mr. Group leader, Mr. Congressman, that he has the right answers to his questions. In a few things, it is important for me to react partially, and partly for us to be able to actually exchange opinions. On the one hand, you're talking over and over again about outsourcing and some kind of privateization of public property. But, Congressman, we have discussed this many times that this is a ridiculous false news. This is a ridiculous false news that you say and repeat here in Parliament, on the Facebook page and on the surfaces on which you appear, and your fellow left-wing Members do so, because they do not want to admit that this is very much not the case, and they do not want to see that it is quite different here, but they are trying to make some kind of political purport and political capital out of it. The only reason I am sad, and I must say this here is because I think it is deeply hurtful that a serious issue like making higher education institutions more competitive, in which I really believe that the future of Hungary, the future of Hungarian youth, depends on this issue, we are obliged to continue such a low-quality debate, in which you repeatedly make false accusations, not us, but the bill, which is written, is clear and clear. The rules of the Hungarian language, the interpretation of the legislation, are clear and clear on all grounds. There's no such thing as public property becoming private property. We cannot talk about any substantive issues, we cannot talk about how we can help the institutions to become better, to become more competitive, to become a better higher education in Hungary, because you are in some political witchcraft kitchen, around DK or the centre of the left, I know that you are far away from this, but still in the center where the real decisions are made on the left, you have figured out that this must be the subject here that for some reason public property will become private property. That's not true, Congressman. Every time you tell me this, it doesn't make it true. It's not that. It is clear that this is a transfer of assets with a public service mission to a trust in the public interest, where existing assets can only be used for the performance of the public service mission. It's the only thing you can use it for, nothing else. It is about the fact that this property can be used for what the National Assembly otherwise assigns to these foundations, in this case to the University of Pécs. It can be used for this. You can say anything here, but that's what it says. It is a pity to burden the Hungarian public speech with this, and it is a pity to tease the participants in Hungarian higher education, even if you think that in the short term this can bring you some kind of benefit from political perspective, while it is actually a much more serious issue, a matter of national strategy, and it is a pity that we have to talk about it so much, and we have to listen to your completely misleading comments over and over again in every law. However, we agree that I would like to say a number of such things, because there are points of agreement between us, Mr. Group leader, one of which is the role of the University of Pécs. Indeed, in terms of the region, the University of Pécs plays a key role not only in the field of education, but also in the field of research, but also in social responsibility, a third mission, a role in the economy, a role in cultural life, a role in the provision of various human services, a role in the arts. It's a defining institution. That is why we would like to develop this institution, which is why I do not understand why you, as a Pécsi, do not recognize that it is a good cause for Pécs, for the region and for everyone who lives there. You should also be interested in how to make the University of Pécs even better, make it more competitive, bring it closer to the economy so that it can bring more investment to it, and, by the way, bring it closer to the people of Pécs, how to really make it one of the key institutions of the region. That is what we believe, and we have this ambition. And not only do we have this ambition, honourable Member, but also the Senate. That is why it is particularly important that I have the figures, 29 yes, 9 no and one abstention, by far more than two thirds, honourable Member, Mr Group Leader, by far more than two thirds! That's how the Senate supported the initiative for a change of model. I don't know where you live, and I have a hunch that, of course, it must be terribly difficult, and that's why I can exonerate you, it must be terribly difficult for you in this left-wing cooperation, where blackmail, intimidation, scamming each other seems like a day's practice, and I understand that. [[21.00]] And I understand that you assume that life is like this. But, Congressman, we're talking about serious people here. I have the Senate of the University of Pécs here, and I knew that Pécs was important to you, and there are all the Senate members here, if you'd like, I'll show them to you. Show me that you believe that among these serious people, university teachers, professors, professors, deans, rectors, who can be blackmailed. Who can I intimidate or who can we intimidate? Who is the man of these people that you think can be blackmailed? I don't know any. I don't know any! I've never blackmailed anyone in my life, by the way, but certainly not anyone from the higher education institution. I understand it's not easy for you, and you're used to blackmailing each other, and that's how you make a difference, and that's how you get something done. But I'm asking you not to assume that of us. And even if you think about us, I accept this, you assume about us, then don't assume about the university senators, these are serious people, that they didn't know what they were choosing, why they otherwise initiated the change of model, and why they believe in why they are ambitious in the vast majority of them not unanimous, that's what it looks like, not unanimous, but why in the vast majority they are ambitious to be employees and leaders of a more efficient, freer, more independent higher education institution with the help of a model change. That's all I want to understand, and I would like to ask you not to question that intention. Believe me, you'll have a much more successful political career in Pécs if you don't doubt the decision of the great professors and university people. And, honourable Member, it's the university's decision. In the operation of the university, representative democracy prevails, as is the case here in Parliament. Representative democracy has its function. It is pointless to question the decision of the university staff, teachers and students of Pécs just because you know a few hundred or a few dozen I don't know exactly how many academics or students who disagree with it. But the majority clearly decided, on the basis of democratic rules of the game, to ambitious the goal of making the University of Pécs more competitive and able to develop. And, honourable Member, there is still a lot of work to be done, and there is no debate between us. I've already told you this today, but I'm happy to repeat it. We are pleased that we have managed to raise the salaries of higher education workers, raise the PhD scholarship, or raise students' scholarships. But that's not enough, we want them to make more money, and we agree on that. But the model change also contributes to this. It contributes to the change of model, because in a better structure, in a freer structure, they can spend domestic resources in a more efficient structure, resources acquired together with economic operators, and even EU funds. Congressman, that is why it is not worth attacking. And I have to tell you once again that this is about the fact that, in contrast to what you said, seven of the top ten universities in the world are based on foundations. It is, after all, that, in contrast to what you said, development resources do not exclude institutions that have not initiated and are not going there. They won't get out, it's baseless slander, we never said that! Please read our statements. Did we ever say that? We didn't! Congressman, we didn't say, we didn't say, we didn't. [[Dr. László Keresztes, Lóránt is intruding.]] We didn't make any false accusations, we didn't say that. We didn't say that! Development resources are available to all higher education institutions. We think and believe that, after a model change, they can use these resources more effectively in a better structure, that it is really better to pour wine in a new hose than in an old hose; that is what this proposal is about. It is also about, honourable Member, for the many times you have read on our heads this politically selected curatorium or some story that you now consider useful to say again instead of a substantive debate, because it seems that you cannot really get involved in this proposal; so I have already told you. On the one hand, the curatoriums aren't appointed yet, the foundations haven't been established yet, and you're already saying that we're going to do that. It's incomprehensible! If you are talking about experience and the names of which you have already been notified and communicated, I will say this once again, although I have already said this today; Member, you must come to the Curatoriums from three directions, precisely because of what you have said, and in which we agree that there is regional significance for such a university: come from the economic sector, come from the academic sector and come from the world of public life. We say that from these three spheres the members of the board should arrive, that's what we're saying. And regardless of anyone's political opinion or even their connection to a political party, there are such curators in each board, regardless. I have no idea what kind of party some of the board members of the institutions that have already been modeled belong to. I know about one or two, but I don't know about most of them. Those who come from an economic world or from a world of science, well, we're not looking at who has a party book. This is important for you. It doesn't matter to us, Congressman. And don't tell me I'll tell you again, but don't tell me that Pál Veres, Mayor of Miskolc, is a right-wing Fidesz party soldier, don't tell me. You worked to be the mayor of Miskolc, and you're your party. You're telling us he's a fidesz party soldier, by the way? Let's not do this to each other. So, Congressman, I think that the accusations that you are constantly concerned with in this bill and in other legislative proposals are not true. We can have a worthy debate, if you raise real questions instead of these false accusations, Mr Group leader, it makes sense to talk about them, but here I can only confirm to you again and again that what you say is not exactly true, all points can be disproved. I am pleased, of course, that there are some points where we can agree with each other; I hope that it can continue from here or from that fund, and if you really want the benefit of the people of Pécs, the University of Pécs, you will come to a better understanding and will be proud to support the adoption of this bill tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-26-290	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Makovecz Campus Foundation, the asset allocation to the Makovecz Campus Foundation and the free ownership of state-owned property will be followed by a discussion of the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/15719. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the opinion of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Mr Gábor Törő, rapporteur for the committee. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-291	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the Makovecz Campus Foundation, the asset allocation to the Makovecz Campus Foundation and the free ownership of state-owned property. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 20 votes in favour, 4 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the establishment of the Makovecz Campus Foundation is to create the Collegium Professor Hungarorum and the Piliscsaba College, to develop educational, health and social compulsory sector training courses, and to support those involved in further training. In addition, its main objective is to protect the buildings of the Campus in Piliscsaba for the sake of national identity and strengthening, safeguarding, scientific and social responsibilities. [[21.10]] When setting up a trust fund with a public service mission, the founder or the connector shall provide the assets and financing instruments necessary for the performance of the public service mission. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal also provides for the free ownership of the property necessary for the operation of the Hungarian Leadership Foundation. The transfer of ownership to the MVA organisation will be carried out in order to fulfil its public tasks, the interests and needs of future generations, so that the Hungarian Leadership Foundation can promote Christian education and training, contribute to the development and operation of economic and other training courses, colleges, professional schools, provide economic and other training to interested parties, and contribute to the implementation of international education and training programmes in Hungary through international cooperation. I ask this House to support this proposal.
u2021-04-26-292	Thank you very much. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to speak now. [[Tamás János Schanda: No.]] It says no. The designated Cultural Committee has not presented a lecturer, no two-minute comment is possible. Anybody want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I declare that no, the debate is closed. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-04-26-293	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, With great respect, I ask the Parliament to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-26-294	Thank you, too. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Foundation for the University of Physical Education, the Foundation for Physical Education and the application of property to the University of Physical Education and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. Government referral T/1572. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to hear the opinion of the Legislative Committee. Mr Gábor Törő, rapporteur for the committee. Here.
u2021-04-26-295	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the Foundation for Physical Education, the Foundation for Physical Education and the University of Physical Education T/1572. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 20 votes in favour, 5 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, In the renewed institutional development plans of each higher education institution, the direction of the transition in higher education since 2016 to promote the competitiveness of universities appeared in several cases at the beginning of 2021. At the beginning of this year, the Senate of ten universities expressed a majority intention for the future of the university to take the form of a new public interest trustee, founded by a state. Therefore, the Government's decision on the new operating and maintenance model of the University of Physical Education provided for both the tasks related to the establishment of the Foundation for the University of Physical Education, and the tasks related to the provision of state assets for the establishment and operation of the University of Physical Education. Ladies and gentlemen, The main aim of the university is to create a higher education institution that provides training in the entire field of competitive Hungarian body culture. The university aims to achieve a unit of education, education, research, development and services that basically supports the advancement of Hungarian physical education and sport. For today, operating partly on a business basis, linking to the mechanisms required by the social and economic environment is a potential opportunity for sustainable management, efficient operation and successful operation, as well as for the development of basic education and research activities. Therefore, the university plans to develop an operational model that is suitable for an appropriate and indispensable balance by supporting the range of public benefit and public interest tasks in addition to the resources provided by the State. I ask this House to support this proposal.
u2021-04-26-296	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, would you like to speak now? [[Tamás János Schanda: No.]] No. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. Representatives' speeches may come, but no two-minute speeches are possible. Anybody want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I declare that no, the debate is closed. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-04-26-297	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I thank the Member who has broken what he said, and with great respect, I ask the Parliament to support the bill in the final vote tomorrow. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-26-298	Thank you very much. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the National Health and Medical Training Foundation, the National Health and Medical Training Foundation and the Semmelweis University, together with the discussion of the summary amendment proposal, follow up. Government referral T/15721. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The opinion of the Legislative Committee will come first in the debate. Mr Gábor Törő, rapporteur for the committee. Here.
u2021-04-26-299	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/15721 on the grant of assets to the National Health and Medicine Foundation, the National Health and Medical Training Foundation and the University of Semmelweis. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 21 votes in favour, 7 votes against and no abstentions. Dear House, In the open institutional development plans of each higher education institution, the direction of the transition in higher education since 2016 to promote the competitiveness of universities appeared in many cases at the beginning of 2021. At the beginning of this year, the Senate of ten universities expressed a majority intention for the future of the university to take the form of a new public interest trustee, founded by a state. Therefore, the Government, in its decision on the new operating and maintenance model of the University, at the initiative of the Senate of Semmelweis University, provided for tasks related to the establishment of the National Health and Medical Training Foundation, which will be established as a maintenance of the University, on the one hand, and the tasks related to the provision of state assets for the establishment and operation of the University. Ladies and gentlemen, By 2030, Semmelweis University will become Europe's five most successful medical science universities and will be among the best of the 28,000 universities in the world. I ask this House to support this proposal.
u2021-04-26-300	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, would you like to speak now? [[Tamás János Schanda: No.]] No. The Committee on Culture did not present a rapporteur. Representatives' speeches are coming, no two-minute speeches are possible. Anybody want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I declare that no, the debate is closed. Mr. Secretary.
u2021-04-26-301	Thank you very much for what you have said and for what you have said during the entire parliamentary debate of the entire bill. All I have left is the honour of asking the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you.
u2021-04-26-302	Thank you very much. The debate is substantially shortened by the fact that I am chairing. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting, and I'll inform you. The Commission's reports on the establishment and implementation of MOL's New Europe Foundation and the discussion of the summarised amendment are now now under way. Government referral T/15722. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Mr Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee. Here. [[21.20]]
u2021-04-26-303	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/15722 on the proposed legislation on the establishment and implementation of the MOL New Europe Foundation. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour, 6 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas Company and MOL Group's extensive support system have been supporting athletes, artists and various disadvantaged social groups as well as local communities for many years. It will also provide support for economic development programmes, environmental and climate protection, sustainability activities and research in the future. The MOL New Europe Foundation is intended to create a public-interest foundation for the effective implementation of the common goals. On the basis of the bill, the foundation is set up by the Hungarian State and MOL Public Company 50-50 percent. The Foundation shall carry out activities directly related to the performance of its public mission and the achievement of its objectives of public interest, in which it manages the assets assigned by the founders and the assets allocated by the members and donors to the Foundation. I ask this House to support this proposal.
u2021-04-26-304	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State? [[Tamás János Schanda: No.]] It says no. The Committee on Culture did not present a rapporteur. Representatives' speeches may come. No two-minute comments are possible. Anybody want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Mr. Secretary.
u2021-04-26-305	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Let me say one sentence to the foregoing: it is an honor for me to be able to negotiate these legislative proposals during President Hiller's chair, and for this I am particularly grateful for the fate. The other thing I have to say about the bill: thank you very much for what you have just said and for what you said earlier, and with great respect, I ask the Parliament to support this important bill. Thank you.
u2021-04-26-306	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Foundation for the University of Óbuda, the Rudolf Kalman Foundation for the University of Óbuda and the Commission's report on the application of assets to the University of Óbuda and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal will follow. Government referral T/15723. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The opinion of the Legislative Committee will come first in the debate. I give the floor to the committee rapporteur, Mr Tamás Herczeg. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-307	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As stated in the presentation of the previous legislative proposals, in the renewed institutional development plans of each higher education institution in early 2021, the direction of a change in the model of universities' competitiveness, as set out in the strategy entitled "Change in Higher Education" since 2016. At the beginning of 2021, the Senate of 10 universities expressed a majority intention for the future of the university to be established as a public-interest trust fund established by a state. For this reason, the Government, at the initiative of the Senate of the University of Óbuda, provided in its decision on the new model of operation and maintenance of the university, on the one hand, for the purposes and tasks related to the establishment of the Rudolf Kalman Foundation for the University of Óbuda and, on the other hand, to the provision of state assets for the establishment and operation of the university. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, the engine of production processes is the technological revolution, which uses the tools connected to the network, which can communicate with each other. As a summary of these changes, experts call it the fourth industrial revolution, or, in short, industry 4.0, and this is now the common language. The aim of the university is to have the fourth industrial revolution internationally, one of the most important knowledge centres of industry 4.0 among Hungarian technical higher education institutions. That is why I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2021-04-26-308	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like to speak now? [[Tamás János Schanda: No.]] It says no. The Committee on Culture did not present a rapporteur. Representatives' speeches may come, but there is no two-minute comment. Would anyone like to speak up? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Mr. Secretary.
u2021-04-26-309	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I couldn't have said the purpose of the bill better myself than Congressman Herczeg, so I would only ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill.
u2021-04-26-310	Thank you very much. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Foundation for the University of Nyíregyháza, the Foundation for the University of Nyíregyháza and the Commission's report on the application of assets to the University of Nyíregyháza, and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal will follow. Government referral T/15724. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the Parliament will discuss the proposal as a minority item. First up is the Legislative Committee. Mr Tamás Herczeg is the rapporteur. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-311	Thank you again for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/15724 on the proposal for a Law for the Foundation for the University of Nyíregyháza, the Foundation for the University of Nyíregyháza and the University of Nyíregyháza. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 22 votes in favour, 7 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, As I have just said, in the renewed institutional development plans of each higher education institution, the direction of the model change, which has been set out since 2016 in the strategy "Change in Higher Education" to promote the competitiveness of universities, appeared in several cases at the beginning of 2021. At the beginning of 2021, ten universities, including the Senate of the University of Nyíregyháza, expressed the majority's intention that the university's future be achieved in a new form of public interest trusteeship, founded by a state. Therefore, the Government, in its decision on the new operating and maintenance model of the University at the initiative of the Senate of the University of Nyíregyháza, provided for the tasks related to the establishment of the Foundation for the University of Nyíregyházi, and the tasks related to the provision of state assets for the establishment and operation of the University of Nyíregyházi. Ladies and gentlemen, The university is a student of several disciplines, including agricultural and humanities, economics, IT, engineering, art mediation, pedagogical training, sports sciences, social sciences and natural sciences. The University of Nyíregyháza is therefore the ten educational institutions of Hungarian higher education, which contribute to the development of universal science and Hungarian society, in particular the East-Hungarian region, with a high level of multi- and interdisciplinary training, basic and applied research and development. For this reason, I respectfully ask the House to support this proposal.
u2021-04-26-312	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. [[Tamás János Schanda: Later.]] Later. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. Imre Ritter, representative of the minority, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate, will present the first sentences in the language of nationality and then translate them into Hungarian. Here you go. [[21.30]]
u2021-04-26-313	Thank you. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nr. T/15724. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the Nyíregyháza Foundation, the Foundation for the University of Nyíregyháza and the University of Nyíregyháza T/15724. In the context of the legislative proposal No. I would like to inform the House that the bill was discussed in detail at the meeting of our committee on 13 April 2021 as an associated committee and concluded that the bill was in line with the House Rule 44. Paragraph 1 of this Article. On the proposal for an amendment to the bill, our committee did not take a position or the intention to amend it, so the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary did not submit an amendment closing the Commission's in-depth debate. At the same time, this agenda is closely linked to the T/15728, which will be discussed as a later item on the agenda. I have tabled a separate amendment to the bill on the regulation of higher education and amending certain related laws. Therefore, the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. Law 64. § 4 requires the Minister to obtain the opinion of the National National Nationality Council in his decisions regarding ethnic education. In the case of new universities, as well as the University of Nyíregyháza, which is on the agenda during the change of model, the Foundation for the University of Nyíregyháza will take over its maintenance role from the State, and instead of the Minister, the Boards will decide, for example, on the strategic issues of universities, including on issues relating to ethnic education. Therefore, according to my amendment tabled, the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. Law 73. Paragraph 3a of Article 3a is added, according to which the National Nationality Council shall obtain the opinion of the National Parliament for the decisions of the maintainer in respect of nationality training. This is the only guarantee for nationalities in Hungary in the case of higher education and ethnic education at the University of Nyíregyháza, and I therefore respectfully ask for my amendment and the adoption tomorrow of the bill that it concerns. In view of this, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities on the Foundation for the University of Nyíregyháza, the Foundation for the University of Nyíregyháza and the University of Nyíregyháza T/15724. It supports the adoption of bill No. 1 and recommends it to this House. Thank you very much for your attention. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-26-314	Thank you very much. Representatives' speeches may come, but no two-minute speeches are possible. Anybody want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-04-26-315	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I have nothing to do but ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you.
u2021-04-26-316	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Future Generations Land Foundation, on the asset allocation to the Future Generations Land Foundation and on the amendment of certain laws in this context, and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal will follow. Government referral T/15725. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the opinion of the Legislative Committee, which is given by Mr Tamás Herczeg, rapporteur of the committee. Here.
u2021-04-26-317	Honourable Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 22 April 2021, T/15725 on the Future Generations' Land Foundation, on the asset allocation to the Future Generations' Land Foundation and, in this context, on the amendment of certain laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 22 votes in favour, 5 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Land, forests and water resources, indigenous plant and animal species, national and local traditions and cultural values are the common heritage of all of us, whose protection, enhancement and transfer to future generations is the duty of the state and all Hungarian people. The aim of the Future Generation Land Foundation is to carry out all these public tasks, preserve and transfer agricultural and forestry land in its management for future generations, and in this connection Ménesbirtok Zrt. exercise of its trust rights. In the case of the adoption of the bill, the Foundation will implement the institutional development goals of secondary and higher agricultural education, support the infrastructure development of agricultural education, strengthen and develop its economic, social and international relations. The purpose of the Foundation is also to preserve the genetic value of protected indigenous Hungarian horse breeds. The foundation is a separate organization from the state, and this separation is the guarantee that it can preserve the land, regardless of government cycles, current political or economic interests, for future generations. I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-26-318	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] He'll tell you later. The Committee on Culture did not present a rapporteur. There will be speeches by Members, and there will be no two-minute comment. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, MSZP, has applied for a speech. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-319	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. There's a science fiction book written by Asimov, called Foundation and Empire. I thought about it when I found out that the government was trying to save the state's assets to Fidesz foundations. That's how you want to build an empire by 2022 when you lose the election. But this story is neither scientific nor fantastic, this sad Hungarian reality. It's a despicable procedure because it breaks all democratic rules. Fidesz-KDNP wants to make the country their own prey. Last time I mentioned this in Parliament about the outsourcing of Mezőhegyes Ménes estate, János Lázár tried to dodge concrete answers by describing the developments of the Ménes estate and inviting me to visit the economy. The real question, however, is not what investments have been made there, but why this unique national treasure cannot remain in the hands of the state. I haven't received an answer since then, so I'm going to repeat it. I want concrete answers to my specific questions. I am not expecting the usual fidesz cutting and pointing back, but the specific and accurate answers to specific questions. Let's start by saying that the Mezőhegyes Ménes estate can only operate in one hand, so it can only be maintained. One of the most important things is, therefore, to keep the area together and not to be torn apart by investors. Even a few years ago, György Simonka and his circle wanted to cut apart and buy the valuable lands of the Ménes estate. It is good that this could not have happened, but there was a price to pay for it, and this is the rise of Commissioner János Lázár. After losing influence in the municipality of Hódmezővásárhely, Mezőhegyes started developing the Ménes estate with state money, and then trying to acquire it through the new foundation. The most important sentence of Commissioner János Lázár was that the estate would not be sold, but the proposal establishes a 90-day pre-emptive right for the State. So how is it now? [[21.40]] In general, the point of the pre-emptive right is that if the rightholder does not live with it, then anyone can buy it; therefore, in this interpretation, the property will be sold. So my first concrete question is, I understand that the owner can sell the Ménes property he received free of charge from the state. The second question concerns the financing of Ménes estates. T/15710. Proposal on public-interest trust foundations submitted under number 1 Paragraph 4 of the Act states that it is very interesting, and I quote it literally: in planning the budget of Hungary at all times, it is a factor in the provision of financing conditions for public-interest trust foundations through asset management and directly necessary for the performance of the public service mission. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This means that the foundation has all the benefits and benefits, but the area that doesn't generate profits continues to be financed by the state. I can't get rid of the idea that the Fidesz government is doing this to throw public service expenses into the hands of the new government after their election defeat, while the profits generated by the outsourced property belong to the Fidesz foundation. My second question is, therefore, that it is true that public tasks such as horse breeding and education will not be financed by the income of the foundation, but by the Hungarian State. The third area of concern is employment. In 2016, even János Lázár himself said that every man in Mezőhegyes is needed, that every worker needs his work. Nothing has improved since then, and the employment of locals has even deteriorated: almost 200 people have been dismissed and local residents have been replaced with imported workers. This may be explained as an individual case, of course, but for 200 people, it is difficult to imagine that everyone had problems with their behaviour or their professional knowledge. I would therefore also like to have a concrete answer on how many people have been dismissed since the appointment of the Commissioner of the Government, and how many workers are now employed in the Ménes estate. These are simple questions and I therefore expect a concrete and clear answer. János Lázár promised that local businesses would also be offered the opportunity to make renovations. Compared to this, most of the work was carried out by entrepreneurs who were completely foreign to the city. My specific question is also simple in this case: what was the proportion of local entrepreneurs among the contractors? It is striking that the foundation outsourcing does not include buildings, renovation and preservation of the monuments in Mezőhegyes, and the fact that the buildings are protected by monuments has also been removed from the law. Is this also about leaving maintenance costs to the state's neck for the Fidesz foundation that's skimming the benefits of the operation? So I ask you, how, with what money do you imagine, the maintenance and preservation of these properties. And I left the greatest danger to the end, the threat to the freedom of Mezőhegyes and his citizens. In the case of Mezőhegyes, 80-90 percent of the settlement and its surroundings are subject to foundational influence. This means that virtually the independence of the settlement will cease, Mezőhegyes becomes almost entirely fidesz private property, and the people and workers there will be at the mercy of the foundation. In view of the current expansion, you never know whose property they'll be looking at. The land of the local owners will be surrounded by areas owned by the foundation, there is no guarantee that they will not be hindered. This may be accompanied by the fact that the owners will be forced to sell their land. The same applies to certain major residential buildings: there are several apartments where the owner, if he steps outside the door, enters the grounds of the foundation. The foundation could be involved in the development of the entire city. With such a concentration of power, any enterprise can be impossible, slowly no one can feel safe, anyone can be removed at any moment. My last question is, therefore, what concrete guarantees can the state give us, that the problems that have been identified above do not upset the lives of the people of Mezőhegyes. I believe that the issues, problems and concerns that have been identified so far can only be eliminated in a way that the government reverses this process and that the agricultural land in Mezőhegyes and the Ménes estates remain in the hands of the state. Believe me, this is the only rational and reassuring solution. Oh, and one more thing. At the beginning of my speech, I mentioned that the Asimov novel failed and the Empire was broken. That's what's gonna happen to you. Deal with it. Thank you for listening.
u2021-04-26-320	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Mr. Secretary, here you go.
u2021-04-26-321	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to say that you brought up the Asimov Foundation novel as an example in the debate. I was thinking about what kind of literary metaphor I should try to use so that Mr. President wouldn't reprimand me, but the only thing I could think of was Romeo and Juliet, where, in fact, young people were victims of fatal misunderstandings and unnecessary hostilities, not simplifying, of course, the literary work, Mr. President, before I was reprimanded. I think that is what we are talking about here too, Madam honourable Member, because I think we agree with you, too, that Hungary's greatest and most valuable natural resource is the supply of land and fresh water, and everything that is otherwise linked to agriculture. Therefore, I think, if we agree on this, it is only fatal misunderstandings and historical hostility in the whole of the law, while in fact we can agree and agree in the bottom. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In fact, we are not talking about any kind of contracts or outsourcing or privateisation. It is about the establishment of a public-service trust fund, for which it is the case that it is entrusted with a public-service task and that it receives some kind of wealth for this public-service task. It is not about private property, it is not about privateisation, it is not about something ugly, Madam honourable Member, but it is about exactly what I believe you and I believe: we believe that we must preserve the land and preserve all the knowledge, all the value that the Ménes estate is, by the way. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is worth one sentence: if anyone else is in danger of the Ménes estate, it is the left, so it was you who sold it, you were the ones who gave it to yourself, and the national side had to get it back. So, honourable Member, if it is to be protected from someone, not from you, I do not assume that, but from your political allies, with whom you are political, it is okay to try to protect them. But the public mission itself and, by the way, the public goal is sacred and inviolable, which is why it's quite clear that it's not about that, it's just a misunderstanding, what you're saying. We are talking about saving this value for generations in the long run. It is also very clear and clear if you look at the bill, honourable Member, that the company will be owned by the foundation, and by the way, the land and land-related assets will remain state-owned. It is in the law, honourable Member, it is included, you can look at Annex 2, if I remember correctly, and this will only be transferred to the new organization. So I think there is no difference between us from this point of view, but you misunderstand the bill, by the way, I assume, and you have not studied what this is all about, while we can even agree on the goal. [[21.50]] And I can only encourage you to accept the invitation of Commissioner János Lázár on the specific employer's questions about the Ménes estates, and I am sure that he will be able to disperse all remaining questions. After that, I would like to ask you to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-26-322	Thank you very much. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission reports on the establishment of the Foundation for Hungarian Culture and the presentation of the Foundation for Hungarian Culture and the Petőfi Literature Agency to the Nonprofit Limited Liability Company, as well as the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/15726. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The opinion of the Legislative Committee is coming. The rapporteur for the committee is Mr Herczeg. Here.
u2021-04-26-323	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the establishment of the Hungarian Culture Foundation and the T/15726 on the asset allocation to the Hungarian Culture Foundation and the Petőfi Literature Agency Nonprofit Limited Liability Company. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 22 votes in favour, 7 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to finance and support the long-term plans and activities of the cultural sector, the establishment of the Foundation for the Hungarian Culture was decided by the National Assembly in order to ensure the predictable operation of the institutions performing such activities and the planned future of the beneficiaries of cultural strategy grants. The bill before us contains the Petőfi Literary Museum and the Petőfi Literary Agency Nonprofit Kft., which is active in carrying out these tasks. the implementation of an agency for cultural management and culture distribution and distribution on its basis. The aim is to establish a system at the heart of which is to strengthen programme coordination, content distribution and the supply of products from cultural consumption habits. The Petőfi Literary Museum and the Petőfi Literature Agency should establish a cultural agency dealing with cultural management and distribution on the basis of the Nonprofit Limited Liability Society, which should play a role in parts of Hungarian culture that are not covered by strategic institutions and which can be improved. As an umbrella organization for the Hungarian Culture Foundation, the funding and support of cultural activities for operational and development purposes, the operation of talent management programmes, support for the creation and functioning of creative innovations, the production of media content and the promotion of media service activities, as well as the exploitation of cultural property. The bill also provides for the free payment of assets to the Agency to facilitate the provision of its public tasks through the Foundation, the Petőfi Literature Agency Nonprofit Limited Liability Company. I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2021-04-26-324	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, would you like to speak now? [[Tamás János Schanda: Thank you very much, no.]] The Committee on Culture did not present a rapporteur. You can talk to him now, not in two minutes, not in a long time. Anybody want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Mr. Secretary.
u2021-04-26-325	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All I have left to do is ask Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-26-326	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission reports on the Gróf Tisza István Foundation for the University of Debrecen, the Gróf Tisza István Foundation for the University of Debrecen and the Commission reports on the application of assets to the University of Debrecen, and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/15727. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The proposal is a matter of nationality. First, the Legislative Committee, the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Tamás Herczeg. Here you go.
u2021-04-26-327	Thank you again for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the Foundation for the Gróf Tisza István Debrecen University, the István Tisza Foundation for the University of Debrecen and the T/1557. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 20 votes in favour, 8 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, In the renewed institutional development plans of certain higher education institutions, the direction of the transition in higher education since 2016 to promote the competitiveness of universities appeared in many cases at the beginning of 2021. The change in the structure of university maintenance, if you want more efficient, productive higher education, is inevitable. This change in the form of a higher education maintainer does not undermine autonomy, scientific freedom and is suitable for the maintenance of universities to function as a good host. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) At the beginning of 2021, the Senate of 10 universities expressed a majority intention for the future of the university to take the form of a new public-service trust fund established by a state. For this reason, the government, at the initiative of the Senate of the University of Debrecen, provided in its decision on the new operating and maintenance model of the university, on the one hand, for the tasks related to the establishment of the Gróf Tisza István Foundation for the University of Debrecen and, on the other hand, for the provision of state assets necessary for the establishment and operation of the university. Ladies and gentlemen, The mission of the University of Debrecen is to operate as a major intellectual center of Eastern Hungary and the surrounding cross-border regions with internationally recognised training, research and innovation activities in all fields. As described in the introductory part of the legislative change, the University of Debrecen has multi-focused strategic goals of a multidisciplinary nature, and it is also important to know about the university that it is the country's most important patient and health care provider. In all these circumstances, in order to make a decision for a successful future, I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2021-04-26-328	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Herczeg. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[On the sign of Tamás János Schanda:]] Later. Thank you very much. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. I now give the floor to Imre Ritter, a national representative, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, who describes the first sentences in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-26-329	Thank you. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nr. T/15727. Mr President, Dear House, Please allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the Gróf Tisza István University of Debrecen Foundation, the István Gróf University of Debrecen Foundation and the T/1557. In the context of the legislative proposal No. [[22.00]] I would like to inform the House that the bill was discussed in detail at the meeting of our committee on 13 April 2021 as an associated committee, and unanimously stated that the bill was in line with the House Rule 44. Paragraph 1 of this Article. On the proposal for an amendment to the bill, our committee did not take a position or the intention to amend it, so the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary did not submit an amendment closing the Commission's in-depth debate. At the same time, this agenda is closely linked to the T/15728, which will be discussed as a later item on the agenda. the draft law on the regulation of higher education and the amendment of certain related laws, to which I tabled a separate amendment, since the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. Law 64. § 4 requires the Minister to obtain the opinion of the National National Nationality Council in his decisions regarding ethnic education. In the case of new and public universities under the model change, such as the University of Debrecen on the agenda, in the case of public foundations, the Gróf Tisza István University of Debrecen Foundation will take over its maintenance role from the state, and instead of the minister, the Boards will decide on the strategic issues of universities, including on issues related to ethnic education. Therefore, according to my amendment tabled, the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. Law 73. The following paragraph 3a is added to Section 3a of the Act:.3 (a) obtains the opinion of the National Nationality Council for decisions taken by the maintainer in respect of nationality training. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is the only guarantee for nationalities in Hungary in the case of higher education of nationalities, as well as the University of Debrecen, and I therefore respectfully ask for my amendment and the adoption tomorrow of the bill that it concerns. In view of this, with the knowledge and hope of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary on the Gróf Tisza István University of Debrecen Foundation, the István Gróf University of Debrecen Foundation and the T/1572. It supports and proposes to this House the adoption of bill No. Thank you very much for your attention. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-26-330	Thank you very much, Congressman Ritter Imre. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Varga, DK.
u2021-04-26-331	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear rapporteur, The thing is, I didn't really want to comment, because it's late at night, but one of the words of the author struck my ears, namely that the change of model does not undermine the autonomy of the university. Dear House, That sentence is true. The autonomy of the University of Debrecen was long lost in 2013, when the political appointed to the first Orbán government took control of the University of Debrecen; when the autonomy of the University of Debrecen was neutered by the election of a rector to lead the University of Debrecen, whose political commitment was absolutely clear. I could also tell you what you hear every day at the university that you're a loyal soldier of Orbán's army, the Rector of the University of Debrecen. In 2013, what should not happen in the life of a university was that, after not electing the politically appointed or intended rector, Zoltán Balog appointed Zoltán Szilvássy as a rector against all will, despite all academic opposition. After that, he must have had his gratitude, because we know very well that Mocsai's doctoral appointment, the standing next to CEU and Putin's honorary title is clearly linked to the name of the Rector of the University of Debrecen. They're gonna say, and it's obviously gonna sound like the model change was actually supported by almost everyone, but that's not true. The University of Debrecen's staff, faculty of teachers, educators and students are just tired of this crazy situation that's been going on for years at the University of Debrecen. When awarding the title of honorary doctor in Putin, the University of Debrecen had to block from its own Facebook page, for example, the opportunity to evaluate the university, since it received as many ones as the system could not handle. So then to say that the change of model at the University of Debrecen otherwise does not undermine the autonomy of the University of Debrecen is a baroque exaggeration. We Debrecen know what's going on. We also know very well that Debrecen has always been a witch's kitchen for the fidesz illiberal system. Here, in my hometown, in my beloved city, everything, from the stoning of the main squares through the multimodal centers, God knows what else money can be stolen from. We're the first people to start taking over colleges. After seeing this work, it is evident that this has now been extended to the entire country. Don't let them think that Debrecen University is a member, student, educator's staff, otherwise they'll keep their heads down and their mouths shut, because there's anger inside. As this system reaches the end of its political evolution, the University of Debrecen will shake itself and regain its autonomy indeed. I'm absolutely certain of that. And we will give the University of Debrecen every opportunity to do so, and I am sure that will happen in a short time. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-26-332	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I now give the floor to Secretary Schanda, the author.
u2021-04-26-333	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me not to leave the sentences which you have said, Mr President, because we have had the opportunity to debate these issues on previous laws today, but there has been no precedent for such harsh, anti-university, anti-utonomous contributions as that which you have done, as you have done. And let's just record what happened. What has happened, honourable Member, is that you believe that only the higher education institution is free, that higher education institution is autonomous, that higher education institution is good if there is such a category that chooses a rector that is dear to you; where you have the kind of leaders working, who share some kind of strange ideology of yours. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] Honourable Congressman, The fact is that you have failed to hit the truth, and you do not respect the University of Debrecen properly, because if you respected the University of Debrecen as Debrecen, the University of Debrecen's past, or even professors, teachers, teachers and teachers working at the University of Debrecen, you would not have said so. [[22.10]] Then you wouldn't have insulted the workers there, the teachers there, or even the students there, honourable Member. Because then let's look at the facts. The first fact is that the members of the university Senate, the people to whom the university's leadership is entrusted, have decided by a vast majority that they would really like to take a model change, that they are initiating a change of model, honourable Member. 65 yes, zero no, three abstentions. 65 yes, zero no, three abstentions! [[Zoltán Varga intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Congressman, I believe that you on the left or in the DK think that you are smarter, smarter, prettier, better prepared to understand every major in the university world, but, honourable Member, we should not be respected, we should not be accepted, but the professors, the academics who work and teach at the University of Debrecen, who elect members of the Senate, and then make decisions that are otherwise responsible as members of the Senate. Well, what kind of a Democrat are you, Your Honour? ! How much do you believe in democracy if the decision of a university senate acting as representative democracy from the outside, without being able to do so? [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] That he doesn't live up to the elbows of the university senate, that he doesn't have the ability, the knowledge, of any kind, like those excellent professors who work in Debrecen to feel sorry for the entire university Senate in Debrecen, to look down on and question their decision? ! Congressman, where do you get this fantastic courage on the left? ! How? ! And, Congressman, the top of all this is that you are an internationally renowned rector with enormous leadership skills, which has achieved outstanding results in Hungarian higher education, and you are starting to waste water here in Parliament. Rector Szilvassy is a fantastic man, honourable Member, with fantastic scientific achievement and fantastic leadership performance, who served the institution as a deputy rector before the rector's appointment, if I recall correctly. Congressman, where do you get the courage to criticize this man here in Parliament? ! In addition, by falsifying it, it also transforms history, as you can and should know if you would like to know that the Senate of the University of Debrecen has proposed several candidates to the Ministry of Maintenance in 13th. He proposed several candidates, one of the Rector Szilvássy, and indeed, he agreed with the appointment of the Maintenance Rector Szilvássy, but the Senate proposed several candidates. There were several candidates, Your Honour. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] That's exactly right. Look at the Senate records, look at it, I know exactly, and you stand up in Parliament and, by the way, Rector Szilvássy's abilities, his scientific readiness, his leadership skills are being challenged (Zoltán Varga intervenes. ) and try to make him look like a political candidate of some kind. This is outrageous! You are on the left, and especially in the party of Ferenc Gyurcsány, against autonomy and anti-university, and this speech has shown most of all this. Shame! Honourable Congressman, Just in order to have a meaningful debate, allow me to draw your attention to what has already been said today, only we, the two of us, have had no opportunity to talk about it, what autonomy means, because it is completely clear and clear. When you claim that the autonomy of the institutions is being reduced, you are simply not telling the truth, and I cannot allow these sentences to remain hanging here. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] Honourable Congressman, You're simply not telling the truth. If you look at the characteristics, the types of autonomy, then there is organisational autonomy: yes, it increases with the change of model. There is financial autonomy: there is a significant increase in model change. If you have seen budgetary organ function, then you know exactly what limits, what bureaucratic obstacles are involved, and how much simpler and how easier it is, in particular, to conduct a long-term, multi-annual research programme or academic operation without, otherwise, these barriers being maintained. This is why it is important to change the model to transform the legislative environment in which institutions can operate, where they can otherwise use development resources, where they can otherwise use operational resources. Because we want to develop universities. We're not against colleges. We don't want to destroy the universities, the way you destroyed them during their administration. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] You have destroyed Hungarian higher education, we want to improve it. But let's look at the examples. You've introduced tuition fees, we've introduced free higher education. You have indebted the institutions with PPP schemes. What are we doing? We're giving them wealth. What did you do? They took money from the instructors. I've been taken from the instructors' wages, Your Honour. We'll raise the salary of the instructors. This is the difference between the two higher education policies. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] This is the difference between the two higher education policies, which is based on the fact that you do not respect higher education institutions, and we respect you, honourable Member. (Zoltán Varga interrupts.) But if we go back to the type of autonomy: there is employer autonomy. Here, too, the possibility of institutions is increasing, they are separated from the rigid structure that does not allow them to give even more prizes to their teachers, researchers and colleagues who are essential to competitiveness and create the opportunity for the best in the world to come to Hungary and participate in education, otherwise participate in research. Honourable Congressman, And part of the autonomy is the freedom of education and research and its autonomy, which is clear and clear: that it moves away from the government is growing and not decreasing; otherwise, the Fundamental Law clearly regulates the importance of education and research autonomy, and this is guaranteed by the current Hungarian state. So, Mr honourable Member, when you claim that anyone in this country wants to reduce the freedom of the institutions on our side, on the national civil side, [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] then you are lying and you are deliberately trying to mislead the Hungarian public. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-334	Thank you very much, Secretary Schanda. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the regulation of higher education and the amendment of certain related laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/15728. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Herczeg, rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-04-26-335	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed T/15728 on the regulation of higher education and amending certain related laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour, 8 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill before us is to fine-tune the operating environment of public-service trust foundations and higher education institutions that they maintain. It also aims to establish the foundation for the establishment and maintenance of a new university. The most important decision-making body of the foundation is the curatorium. It should be possible for members from the worlds of the Academy, the economy and public life to be committed to the institutions in the resulting curatoriums, because this ensures that universities can truly become the most decisive institutions in the region. [[22.20]] The public and transparent conduct of procurements which are part of the management of foundations carrying out public tasks is a priority public interest and the obligation of the Foundation to provide public procurement should therefore also be laid down in law. Under the proposal, model-shifting universities will be transferred to the category of private universities in the Annex to the Higher Education Act. Furthermore, it is necessary to amend the law on national higher education because of the establishment of the Tokaj-Hegyalja University and the maintenance change of the Eszterházy Károly University, which will be called the Eszterházy Károly Catholic University from 1 August. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the entry into force of the 9th amendment to Hungary's Fundamental Law in December 2020, the transfer of founding rights and the clarification of the asset allocation, it is necessary to amend the laws with previous model changes. The State ownership of the National Film Theatre Nonprofit Limited Liability Company is owned by the Theatre and Film Art Foundation. This helps the University of Theatre and Film Arts. It is also part of the submission that the foundation operating the University of Miskolc is owned by the state so far in the Ozd Steel Works. In connection with the presentation, the former Sanatorium of Chanyik Valley will assist the University of Miskolc in its medical science training in the future. Dear House, It is necessary to amend the Law on the National Earth Fund in order to enable higher education institutions with basic educational or scientific research tasks in the agricultural sector to manage forest and land, in addition to public-service trust foundations. I ask this House to support the bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-336	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Herczeg. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] Not now. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. First, I will give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, representative of nationality, in a four-minute time frame.
u2021-04-26-337	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, in my last speech today, to express my position and position on behalf of the Hungarian nationalities, as well as on behalf of T/15728. on the draft law on the regulation of higher education and the amendment of certain related laws. At its meeting on 13 April 2021, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary asked for a pre-nationality item for the seven universities in which it is taking place, there may be ethnic training, so they have a sensitive impact on the indigenous ethnicities of Hungary and conducted a detailed debate on them. I've told you about this before. At the same time, we have not been able to call for a nationality item for T/15728 on the regulation of higher education. Legislative bill No.1, given that it was submitted after the last meeting of the House Committee, but during the joint general debate we also had the opportunity to comment on this bill. In my comments at the time, I said that, since the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary cannot submit an amendment to this agenda, I would therefore like to submit a separate motion by Members, which was tabled on 12 April 2021 in T/15728/2. I've done it. I would like to stress that, although I have tabled an individual amendment because of the circumstances, but of course I have consulted all national national minority self-governments and national minority advocates, my amendment was unanimously supported and deemed necessary by everyone. The Committee on Culture shall be composed of the members of the Committee referred to in Article T/15728/2. On 13 April 2021, my amendment, tabled by its representatives, was discussed and supported by 11 votes in favour, with one abstention, without voting against. I have also spoken in my previous speeches on the agendas for universities, namely the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. Law 64. § 4 requires the Minister to obtain the opinion of the National National Nationality Council in his decisions regarding ethnic education. In the new and model-changing universities, which are subject to public or church reservations, the state will take over its maintenance role, and instead of the minister, the curatoriums and church maintainers will decide on the strategic issues of universities, including on matters relating to ethnic education. Therefore, according to my amendment tabled, the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. Law 73. The following paragraph 3a is added to Article 3a of the Act:. The National Nationality Council shall obtain the opinion of the national minority council in its decisions in respect of national minority training. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is the only guarantee for ethnic minorities in Hungary in terms of higher education and education, and I therefore respectfully ask for my amendment and the T/15728 which it concerns. Support and adoption of bill No.3 at tomorrow's meeting. Thanking you for your patience all evening, danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-26-338	Thank you very much, Congressman Ritter Imre. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to the author, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-04-26-339	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I have nothing left to do but to thank everyone who participated in the work of Parliament during the negotiation of this bill and to ask the honourable Members and Members to support the adoption of the bill with their vote tomorrow. Finally, I wish you a good night. Thank you.
u2021-04-26-340	We're not leaving yet, Mr. Secretary. [[Defiance. Zoltán Varga: I wish, but no!]] Good night to you. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig, Jobbik:. Ecological bomb ticking at Lake Balaton? It's an address. [[Anita Kőrösi Potocsány: Retracted!]] The congressman is not here, so the next one. Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the Lóránt Group, LMP: [[Anita Kőrösi: Neither is she!]] He's not here. Thank you. Congressman Róbert Dudás, Jobbik... No? [[Robert Honkers: I'm here!]] Yeah. Yeah, I see. I'm sorry. I'm not looking for those responsible, I'm looking for Róbert Honkers. [[Defiance.]] So I'm not looking for those responsible, I'm looking for solutions! The floor is yours, Congressman Róbert Dudás.
u2021-04-26-341	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, As with my speeches after the agenda so many times, I am bringing here questions concerning Gyöngyös and his region. This is how it is today, when I have to say that the 30 percent Covid bonus was taken from the workers at the Pearl Hospital under the greatest strain. Do these people who work day and night in hospitals, protect patients, heal patients, do whatever they want for everyone who, unfortunately, ends up in this department? I might have started with that, too, but I apologize for that, and for that, I am now doing everything I can to thank you and thank you for your work, and that is said in a number of forums. At the same time, let us add that they need more than that. This is the supplement that, if you can say so, motivated them a little, or rather compensated for the burdens they have to bear every day. [[22.30]] A few weeks ago, one of the government representatives in Gyöngyös said in connection with his criticism of the municipality that there is money for what we want there to be money for. Well, then I'll bring you the same item, the same thesis, that there's money for what we want to make money for. If the health professionals, doctors, nurses, nurses and nurses working in the Covid department, but also the cleaning staff, everyone who works there 24 hours a day, if there is no money for their appreciation, there are huge problems here. And where would money be put into this department? Well, for example, from the Economic Protection Fund, in addition to the fact that the government should ensure an adequate percentage of lost wages, it should also be able to raise wages and replace wages for healthcare workers. Not to invest in sights such as saying a few items, that we are paying HUF 67 billion on Zsolt Semjén's hobby so that by the way, you will be able to enter the World Hunting Exhibition on several ten-ton gates made of deer antlers; or that the planned cost of the Bozhik Stadium is already at HUF 5 billion at 17 billion. I think it is a matter of will, and this is a question that must be wanted, and everything must be given, because that is not what these health workers deserve. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Last year, I spoke for the first time about a school in Gyöngyös, namely the Calvary School. I'd like to briefly describe what happened at the time and what has happened since then. Well, more than 30 years ago, the primary school was built, which was not only Gyöngyös, but the most patinative school in the area in the 1980s. However, since then neither the government nor the municipality has really turned to it, and it has not spent the renovation costs that it should have had from time to time. But if, as I have said many times, we are looking for who, which government, which government, should have done what, then this school will never be finished. Once again, we are talking about more than 500 children, and through them we are talking about thousands of people, including their families, and they are bringing children not only from Gyöngyös, but also from the neighborhood. I used to say, as was the title of my speech, that I was not looking for a responsible person, but for a solution; in this question I also think, and that is what I said both in the direction of the district and in the direction of the Ministry, as a written question, that they should come down, please, and look at what is going on there, what is going on there, and that they should invest in it. Their response revealed, as I often say, that the rural situation cannot be seen from Budapest. Well, we're about to discuss the budget, the 2022 budget. As many times, I will repeat the question of this school, in addition to many topics, and I am sure that sooner or later the speeches, written questions and budgetary amendments will bear fruit, and that this school will finally be rewarded and refurbished, representing the interests of more than 500 people and, overall, thousands of people, and bringing them joy, because I am convinced that a rural child deserves what is basically due to a child in Budapest. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-26-342	Thank you very much, Congressman Róbert Dudás. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Herczeg, Member of the Council, Fidesz. He said his post-meeting address on the implementation of the road development plans of the peaceful county seat. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-26-343	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of my speech after the agenda is to report on the road development plans in Pécsaba and on the implementation of many of the plans. It is difficult to argue that transport opportunities are crucial to our daily lives. We take our children to kindergarten, we take our children to school, we go to work, we shop, we go to rest, we receive relatives, we receive friends. Today, in most places, it is natural to be on solid roads, but its absence immediately shows up and causes countless annoyance. For us in Békés County and its headquarters, the people of Békéscsaba have had a constant problem and debate over the past decades about the poor quality of transport facilities. Poor roads have marked our everyday life, our quality of life, our economic development. Following the promises made by previous governments, the current Hungarian government is responsible for bringing this region back on the map of Hungary and economic operators, investors. From Békéscsaba we can now travel on an 80 km long expressway to Kecskemét and Budapest, and as a result of the ongoing road constructions, this section will continue to expand this year and in the coming years. In this way, thanks to the M44 motorway and the M5, we can finally travel by highway or highway between Békéscsaba and Budapest. Thanks to the construction of the M44, the imminent development of the airport in Békéscsaba, as well as the final 30 km modernisation of the Budapest-Szolnok-Békéscsaba-Lőökösháza railway line between Békéscsaba and Lőkösháza, we now have a realistic chance to establish significant large investors in the county, which create jobs, as the obstacles to bad accessibility, which are often and rightly referred to as the counter-argument. In addition to the development of the national transport network, however, we must not forget the state of the inland roads of settlements. The quality of life is significantly influenced by the fact that our home can be approached by paved roads or muddy, dusty roads with no solid cover. Békéscsaba has a serious record, a lack of it in this area. With the development of the city, the suburbanisation, the expansion of the suburban areas, new areas were built, new streets were created. However, these transport routes had no own source of solid housing for the city, its inhabitants, and no substantial assistance from the central budget has been received so far. The Government of Hungary is the Government of 1842/2020. He decided to support Békéscsaba's road development goals and to provide the county seat with a three-year schedule of 7 billion HUF 38 million for asphalting roads without solid housing and for renovating roads in poor condition. This subsidy amount is historic in Békéscsaba's life. Since the change of regime, but in such a short period of time as now, there has not been such a degree of road development in the city before the change of regime. Previously, in 2016, he received HUF 1.8 billion in support of the city's road development, some of which had been planned by the city's management to prepare the asphalting work of the streets with no solid casing. This is why, after the government decision of November last year, the local government of the town of Békéscsaba is preparing to start the export work. In the framework of the Modern Cities, the bounty for road development coming to Békéscsaba will represent a significant change in the quality of life of tens of thousands of people living here. In the second quarter, there will be a series of road construction works involving 46 streets, and soon it will follow a road repair of 63 streets, street sections, squares, and then the big project will continue with the second phase of road construction, making it 23,3 kilometres to pave the road section. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It will take place so that the 18 percent unscathed road length is reduced to less than 8 percent. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-26-344	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Herczeg. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, also applied for a post-scheduled speech, and I read the title of the speech: "The mayor of Debrecen doesn't even give any appearances, or how can a 24-billion-dollar bus purchase be managed with the total exclusion of public opinion and general assembly? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[22.40]]
u2021-04-26-345	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, On the part of the previous debate, it has been said that my beloved city is, in fact, the veterinary horse of Fidesz. This is where they try everything, and then they decide whether to do it nationwide or not. The story I'm about to tell you started in 2008 was a big business; it was big for someone, less for the city. In February 2008, Lajos Kósa, then mayor, announced on a wild-comic afternoon that there was enough of Hajdu Volán who had provided the bus section of the public transport of Debrecen because he considered the company to be expensive and low-quality, and that the public service contract concluded with them would be terminated until 2012. In parentheses, otherwise, the then Hajdu Volán was one of the most prosperous companies among the national transport companies. But it could be said to Lajos Kósa; that's when a company unknown to Debrecen came into the picture, which had so much to do with bus operation that they installed interactive displays and LCD screens in buses. Of course, the application of Hajdu Volán was declared invalid, and not surprisingly Fidesz, even the Prime Minister, was awarded a consortium with DKV, the Transport Company of Debrecen. Otherwise, the buses were provided to Debrecen in a very interesting and strange rental arrangement, since we rented these buses, but what was interesting was that this company bought our Volvo buses for a Swiss franc loan, after which not only had to pay the client's interest rates, but also the possible exchange rate changes, so the municipality of Debrecen had to pay for them. And, of course, the municipality paid as a military officer, after all, sacc per about 16 billion forints. And, of course, almost nothing from all the high-profile promises made in their original tender was realised, which was also laid down in the public service contract. In this regard, they undertook not to request so-called loss compensation from the city in the event of any loss-making operation; in the tenth year, every 10 years, the entire bus park will be replaced by brand new buses. And I don't have to say that in recent years, this public service contract and the large-scale plans have been neutered one at a time. Today we're dating 12-year-old Volvo buses. The city pays a loss compensation of HUF 2 billion per year with a significant reduction in the number of flights, flight density and even the space-km issued. And like I said before, the average age of buses is now over 12 years. Public transport has turned away from the Debrecens, the displacement of the State Volán from Debrecen, so Lajos Kósa's innovation has failed spectacularly, but the time has passed. These buses, which are still here in Debrecen, have grown old, couldn't wait any longer, we're talking 12-year-old buses. It was necessary to issue a new public service tender, but instead of setting up a tender, the mayor, under the cover of the pandemic, simply issued a new public service tender, excluding the general assembly and the general public, and simply buying new buses with the existing consortium. Of course, there is no need to say that we know almost nothing about the construction other than that they are not trying, as I said before, to put out a new public service contract, but only public procurement for the purchase of buses. And I suppose it doesn't surprise anyone that the buses will be delivered by the same thousand companies connected to Fidesz and the Prime Minister as they did in 2008. But they're more careful now, because they don't make much promises. The exchange of buses will also take place over a multi-annual period. Until 2024 the service provider has run up to 900 thousand kilometres and can operate 12-year-old used buses. They want to operate the buses in a new, obscure rental structure, which we do not recognize by Members, but 16 billion of Kósa's has now risen to HUF 30 billion. That's where we are now. They don't give out contracts, we don't ask for them. We write to each other because they think it has nothing to do with what the city's tax dollars are being spent on. But I have to say, not for long, because after the change of government in 2022, I'm pretty sure all these secret files are gonna open up, and someone's gonna really punch their ankles. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-26-346	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Varga. Anett Bősz, representative of DK, applied for a post-meeting speech. The word is yours:. The values of Érd must be preserved by the title of his thoughts.
u2021-04-26-347	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The central government has a responsibility to assist and cooperate with the efforts of local communities with their elected leaders without arbitrary selection of settlements and settlements. It is in the common interest of all of us that this nation can grow in both economic and cultural terms, and that our individual settlements should develop. It is no different with the Medal already registered in the diplomas of 1243. The colorful history of Érd left us with colorful memories. In the street of the Ófalus cellar series, the limes of the Roman Empire emerge from under the modern road cover, about consciously showing that it is a very old settlement and very old memories. A few hundred meters from here, a chapel is guarding the memory of the victims of the plague. On the wall of the chapel bearing the name of St. Rókus, St. Sebestyén and St. Rosalia the memorial plaque of the German minority can be seen. They remember the victims of the cholera epidemic. The Érd, who has preserved perhaps one of the most beautiful stories of Hungary, has broken into three parts, faithfully portrays the parable of the peaceful coexistence of peoples and religions. Following Buda's occupation, three military and three transport routes met in Érden: the Osijek, Fehérvár and Duna routes. Péter Szapáry, then castle lord, famous Turkish-beating Hamja beg, suffered under the circumstances. He was tortured, chained in the basement of the castle at that time: he was put in front of a plow and treated like an animal. Károly Lotaringi turned in the battles around the Buda, handed the captured Hamja to Szapáry, who, driven by Christian values, wanted to treat Hamja Beyg differently. By the time the Turk had been summoned by the old-new fortress, it was too late, for Hamja beg had drunk poison. In the final moments of his life, however, he died as a Christian in his respect for Samaria and in his respect for Christendom. I think that if we look at the fact that about a century and a half later, the flood of 1838 washed away the agricultural town along the Danube in its entirety, but Philip Batthyány did not let the Érdians lose it, and, above all, on the hillside, he plotd a new city for the inhabitants, it seems that there are very large historical personalities and very large people leading this town. Unfortunately, Érd's modern-day destiny is no longer so exhilarating, as the central government has actually been letting go of generations' hands for a hundred years. The city is a keeper of values that will allow it to function as a cultural capital within a decade. The beautiful Danube bank and the floodplain forest, the church and parish of St. Michael, the surrounding Szent Mihály square, which the municipality would otherwise undertake to renovate if, together with the diocese, the central budget were to provide a financing framework for it, unfortunately, to this day. The Suffering Christ Chapel is almost completely destroyed, the host house, the deep end cellar system, the former Termal Hotel are all memories of another historical era, and unfortunately its sad memories, because we see these memories destroyed instead of telling new generations about hundreds of years or past decades as a street museum. The castle has been completely destroyed, the cellar system remains, and while my fellow members of the government report in this Chamber that a few hundred enthusiastic villages will be honoured, they will receive billions of HUF of development money for renovations, historic monuments, or we will see that János Lázár is renovating hunting castles throughout the country, and this city will have to preserve the castle without a castle. It is guarded by a single wall, my fellow Members, the memory of the Castle of Érd. I think it's a disgrace, even in the light of the fact that, here in the neighbourhood of the capital, this city could hold true cultural values, if the central government could reach out to it. [[22.50]] If somewhere, then the historical memory of Érden can beautifully show how world religions and peoples can live together peacefully. I think that the Chapel and Minaret, which are a few hundred meters from each other, are now mentioned today, also show that not only the religions native to Hungary, but also the world religions, do desire historical memory and, above all, the knowledge of present generations that we can all be together. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from DK and Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-26-348	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anett. László Hajdu, representative of DK, also came forward after the agenda. Half a century ago, it was an active celebration of cooperation for the protection of living nature. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-26-349	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, On Thursday, April 22nd, the modern world held a Earth-day celebration. In 2009, the UN declared 22 April to be Earth Day, although the movement from the United States started in 1970 under the name of Earth Day, and 125 countries joined it by 1990, and in 1990 it was joined by civil movements in Hungary. Today, Thursday, the 31st anniversary of Earth Day was celebrated by the civil movement in Hungary, and, of course, they celebrate in kindergartens, nursery schools, municipalities, and the government also advertises actions. I think there's a lot of responsibility for Earth's Day, because Earth's Day is celebrated for the protection of living nature, living environment, Earth, our most precious treasure. Back in the 1970s, the founders thought it was a day, but then this day widens every day of the year, and for 365 days, the Earth Day celebration will be the exercise. This was not entirely the case, and last week's events, which were already planned in advance, were greatly limited by Covid, the fight against the epidemic, so larger events, bigger competitions, which are usually organised at this time, larger exhibitions and presentations on environmental protection, environmental awareness, which we usually hold at local, regional level, could not be, because the virus disturbed it. I think that the Earth Day celebration teaches us, in many ways, an approach, an environmentally conscious attitude. Those who care a bit about the environment in which they live, in the street, in their garden, in their house, in the park opposite them, or in the protection of living water, and do not pollute, but act consciously, this is what the Earth Day event would teach us, they know that Earth Day is nothing more than an active holiday, calls us to act and to act. In my constituency, New Palota, we planted wood on this day. Obviously, there were six of us at the tree plantation, and in other cases, there were 10 trees planted by 100 people, and there were a lot of kindergarten kids and a lot of people. But six of us have done the planting of the tree. Then a forest of 6 hectares was cut down, otherwise with a building permit. It's sad that we're with Érd on the tree cutting permit. With a final timber cutting permit issued in Érden, a huge area has been cut with a slash, and this is the cheapest reason, without knowing and asking the local government, the people living there, the population and the civil society organisations there. We prepared a press conference, but there was also a lot of construction waste and debris carried out from the city's internal construction sites in this area, and we also spoke about it. When we think about Earth's Day and organise an Earth-day celebration, we should always think about it and warn ourselves, warn our environment, take care of living nature, take care of the created world, and give this Earth to the next age in a better, better state than we have inherited it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK and Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-26-350	Thank you very much, Congressman. János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "Change of the Age." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-26-351	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, In peaceful county, the livelihood crisis has not started last year, but has been going on for 30 years. In Békés County, we have reached the point that by now it is about HUF 150,000 net that you can earn less a month with the same work in the county as if you were doing the same job in Budapest or in one of the other cities in Western Hungary. I know that for some fidesz rich fidesz, it's no money, and I know that it's not a very big sum for Lőrinc, Tiborczka or Andika, about what they pay for a bottle of wine in an elite restaurant, but I would like to tell you what the difference is for an average family in Békés county as a net HUF 150,000. This HUF 150,000 is the difference that separates emigration from prosperity in the homeland. This net monthly HUF 150,000 is the difference between the fact that a Békés county family is forced to live their daily lives in a modern and healthy home or in a watery living room in a saltpeter nursery, and this 150,000 forint separates the average Békés county citizen from the fact that when they enter the store, they are looking for the cheapest Parisian and the most expensive ones, and not the healthy food, or fruit or vegetable espult. This 150,000 forint separates the people of Peace and County from what they see around them after the work of a lifetime. It means that after 10-20-30 and 40 years of work, they were just going one by one or two, that after 40 years they could give something to their loved ones, their children, so they could start their own lives. [[23.00]] And when we come here in this House with this huge pay gap, which separates counties and regions from each other in Hungary, we also get from the benches of Fidesz, from Viktor Orbán, that this is a fake problem, that this is a non-existent problem that we are talking about here. And when we bring this matter into this House, the Fidesz Members will sweep this question off the table. However, in this situation and in this case, the Hungarian government has an undisputed responsibility, because the government could do something about it, renegotiate with multinational companies strategic contracts that could renegotiate these companies into their own business policies. For state-owned majority-owned companies, the principle of equal pay for equal work could finally be introduced, so that it cannot happen again and again that in a state-owned company a peaceful Csabai person receives less in the same job as he receives, say, in Budapest or in Western Hungary. They're sweeping him off the table. Just as they are sweeping our proposals to transform the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises, so that they can integrate the remaining money into wage development and give 10-20-30-40 thousand forints more to their employees every month. That's why we work, we work for a country like this. From 2022, we would like to see a country like this around us. A country where a citizen of Békés County has an inalienable right to thrive in his homeland, to have an inalienable right to buy healthy food when he enters the grocery store, to live in a healthy home, and to raise his children, to have decent wages for decent work. We would like to create such a country from 2022, and we would like to work for such a country, for a country where equal pay is paid for equal work, and for a country where no one is a second-rate citizen of this country even if it was destined to be born east of the Tisza. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2021-04-26-352	Thank you very much, Congressman Stummer. Representative of Jobbik Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, asked to speak after the agenda. It's called the 8th. You have the floor.
u2021-04-26-353	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to believe that for once in this life, at least once in real life, the interests of the Hungarian people are put first instead of their own self-interests. This slogan was chosen as the motto of the Hungarian National Fishing Association in order to protect and protect the waters, fish and fishermen. But I can guarantee that this is not being observed here, because in recent years I have also interpreted with several speeches, written questions and personal visits to Mohos the request of the nearly 700 thousand fishermen to lift the night fishing ban, because as long as you can hunt during the curfew, you can sit on the high watch, and you cannot fish alone on the shores of Lake Balaton or other waters at night. The result is a statement, pointing to an operational tribe, a government, but Mohos, the representative body, whose job would be to represent the interests of fishermen to the government, simply does nothing. At this personal meeting, Director General also presented his professional position with me, and I believe that with this system, which Mohosz has put on the table, all that should be done is that this should be carried over to the operational tribe, and that at last, in the interests of fishermen, the fishing ban could be lifted at night. Apparently, President Lajos Szűcs, because he is the president of Mohos, by the way, vice-president of the Committee on Budgets, it does not matter that the fate of 700 thousand fishermen depends on his lobbying activities with the government and the operational tribe. When I said at the conciliation that he was also there, that this political activity should be pursued a little more in the interest of the fishermen, he simply waved one, and said that this is not politics, this is a profession. But let's just say that if it's not politics, it's a profession, then how come Zsolt Semjén was able to get at the hunters to hunt at night. I would add, according to strict and precise rules, and in certain cases you can hunt at night, but it may be a matter of fact, no one denied that, everyone accepted that. But fishermen can't accept that. As long as the hunters are 40,000, the fishermen are 700,000, a little bigger camp. And, I'm sorry, for sitting on the shore of the water, asking me, at night, alone, what kind of epidemiological rules you can break, because you're only fishing there on your own. At this personal meeting, I also mentioned that the fishermen had issued their license, which is tens of thousands of forints; let's face it, in the current economic situation, this is a very serious burden for families. If we're here at the end of April and we still can't fish at night, at least give the fishermen some sort of compensation, some sort of compensation. I calculated that if this 700 thousand anglers had only a symbolic percentage discount on the price of the area fishing licences for the area of 22 it would be a HUF 2 billion item. Mohos would not suffer any disadvantage if he gave this discount to the fishermen, and, say, the central budget would fund the state towards Mohos. If there is 67 billion for hunting exhibitions, then fishermen should also have 2 billion forints to feel that it is important for you to have such a society, such a fishing society and so many people who have otherwise issued these fishing permits in this force majeure situation. What do the fishermen want? Fishing. Now, it's okay that the curfew will be from next week to midnight, from midnight to 5:00 a.m., but there's still a time when fishermen, if they're out on the waterfront, could fish with strict compliance with the epidemiological measures, and there wouldn't be such an outrage, and Mohos would finally be able to represent its slogan, the interests of the fishermen. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-04-26-354	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Potocsányi Kőrösi. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. I wish you a restful good night. Meeting day's closed.
