u2021-02-15-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Houses of Representatives, The first day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that three of our former fellow Members have passed away in the past. Ferenc Szabó was a member of the Parliament for two cycles, he obtained his mandate from the list of Fidesz Pest county in 1998 and 2002. Under his mandate, he was a member of the Committee on Agriculture, Health, Social Affairs and Defence. From 1994 he was a member of the Pest County General Assembly and later a municipal representative of Abony municipality. In 2017 the Hungarian National Hunting Order was awarded a medal for the creation of the new Hunting Law and its sacrifice for the maintenance of hunting traditions. He died in the 68th year of his life. From 1994 until 2002 György Timár was a member of the Hungarian Parliament for two cycles. He got his credentials from the National List of the Independent Little Farmers' Party. Under his mandate, he assisted the work of the European Integration Affairs, Human Rights, Budget and Economic Committees. Between 1991 and 1993 he served as the leader of the Association of Jewish Communities in Hungary, and between 1991 and 1995 he was president of the Hungarian Association of the Victims of Holocaust. He died in the 84th year of his life. Gyula Pánczél obtained his mandate from the regional list of the county of Bács-Kiskun at the first free parliamentary elections in the colours of the MDF, and he was the party's parliamentary representative for a period of time. Under his mandate, he was a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Human Rights. From 1968 he worked in the hospital in Kecskemét, and from 1991 until his rest, he served as the head of the Institute of Lung Care in Bács-Kiskun County. His work was rewarded with several awards, and in 2019 he received the award of the Hungarian Medal of Merit for the Citizen's Cross. He lived 77 years. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our fellow Members with a silent standing. [[The people in this room stand up and pay tribute to the dead.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that 198 Members of Parliament, the minority representative and the 12 minority advocates have issued their own and family declarations of property. Declarations of property are public in the case of Members and Speakers and can be viewed on the National Assembly's website. I declare that all Members of Parliament and advocates can exercise their rights. Dear House, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has applied for a speech before the agenda today. I give you the floor. Prime Minister, please.
u2021-02-15-1	Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor to inform the Parliament, according to our constitutional customs, of the two months since our last meeting, in particular the fact that the left gave me the authority to deal with government crisis management, when 90% voted on the legal basis for the current measures. Dear House, These two months, like the last year, have been about fighting the Crown Virus. We imposed restrictive measures on 11 November, under the authority of Parliament and on the advice of epidemiological experts. I would like to emphasise the advice of the epidemiological experts and their weight. There is a great temptation for political decision makers or simply for the representatives of the people to think that they are an epidemiological expert during a prolonged epidemic. True, because of a prolonged epidemic, we also have some skills, but this is not the same as the knowledge of the epidemiological experts. However, we do not want to pass on the responsibility of the decision, it remains the government's responsibility to organise and manage the defence, it is a government task, but we will always insist that the opinion of the epidemiological experts be as important as possible in our decisions. My fellow Members, epidemic data are increasing throughout Europe, including in Hungary. During the consultations, the Hungarian people made clear what restrictions were adopted, and in this summer consultation they also made clear that the country should also work during the period of defence. That's why we also kept jobs and primary schools open. In order to control the epidemic, there was a need for a curfew, the closure of nightclubs, baths, theatres, restaurants, concerts, the prohibition of visits to events and sporting events. What I can tell you about the method of health crisis management in Hungary is that our crisis management is consistent. We have essentially not changed the previous measures since November, and I believe that is why we have managed to keep the epidemic within the framework. Those who went the other way and believed in constant changes to the protection measures, who reopened in Western Europe at Christmas, were revived by the third wave. So I feel that we made the right decision when we stuck to our initial measures. The epidemiology curve hasn't dropped in ten days. The downward phase of the second wave has stopped. According to experts, although they do not claim to be so either, because of the more contagious viral mutation, there can be a rising trend again. It is therefore necessary to extend the mandate given by Parliament, and strict and consistent compliance with the rules so far is also necessary. The debate on reopening is ongoing in Hungarian society. Some people want to open up again today; we, frankly, want more than that, not simply to turn the. Closed board on the entrance, but to restart the economy and even the whole civil society life. [[11.20]] We want us to come out of this epidemic stronger than we agreed to. However, the condition of rebooting is the vaccine; without a vaccine, we cannot stop the virus because it will always return in new waves. Therefore, the most important task today is to try to get as many vaccines as possible, not as promised from Brussels, but quickly. We're good with any vaccine that's safe and that's been used to inoculate millions of people in the world. And we could hardly afford that what they use to kill Hungarians in Vojvodina should not be available to us in Hungary. That's why we also bought Russian and Chinese vaccines to the west. According to the agreement with Russia, Hungary will receive enough vaccines to inoculate one million people in three months. We also managed to reach an agreement on the Chinese vaccine: we buy enough vaccine from Sinopharm to inoculate two and a half million people. This means that five effective and safe vaccines are already authorised in Hungary, which is the key to the start of mass vaccination. In addition to the uncertainties of the supply and distribution of vaccines in Europe, I can say that we have already achieved that we Hungarians can inoculate three and a half million more people by the end of May than a European Union country of similar size, relying only on Western vaccines. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We have a realistic chance that by the beginning of April, the number of people who are vaccinated may exceed two million, i.e. every registered citizen over the age of 60, or at risk, can receive vaccination. In my opinion, Hungary needs all the vaccines, because vaccination saves life and jobs, and vaccination leads back to normal life. Every day counts, and it is literally true that those who have gained time will gain life, even hundreds, thousands of lives. Therefore, the vaccine should not be turned into a political issue, and the commitment to Americans and Brussels should not be demonstrated in the area of the vaccine. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks. Intruder from the same place, you did it!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Since the beginning of the epidemic, all of our decisions have been based on the fact that, while we listen to the opinion of the epidemiological experts, we also listen to the opinion of the people; that is why we held an epidemiological consultation before the second wave last summer. It only makes sense to introduce restrictions that are accepted by the majority and can therefore be enforced. The government also needs people's support during crisis management, which is what it seeks to obtain and maintain. Dear House, The epidemic is not over yet, but with the launch of the vaccination programme, we have entered a new phase: some think that lifting the restrictions can start at the same time as the vaccinations are being given, others urge caution, because the epidemic is taking off all over Europe. Therefore, we are launching a new consultation, this time on the issues of rebooting, and we are asking people for their opinion on seven important issues. I would also like my compatriots to sit in front of the computer or smartphone, share their views with us, while not forgetting that it is still possible to apply for vaccination on the same Vakcianainfo.gov.hu site, and it is not too late to sign up. Dear Parliament, After the epidemiological situation, I would also like to inform you of the economic situation. The Hungarian economy before the epidemic was one of Europe's most stable and rapidly growing economies: low government deficits, declining public debt, high record employment, rising incomes, declining poverty and enormous investment attractiveness. More importantly, it is coupled with confidence and optimism. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: it was!]] In 2020, the epidemic hit the Hungarian economy. The impact did not shake, but it stopped and pushed the Hungarian economy back: the European Union estimates that economic growth, expressed as a percentage, is about 5.2 percent... Our crisis management was all about protecting jobs. They know our approach: if there is work, there is everything; this was the task of the economic protection action plan. We introduced a credit moratorium, which helped 50,000 Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, leaving HUF 3000 billion in the pockets of nearly 1.6 million customers, i.e. entrepreneurs and families. We help businesses in difficulty with wage support: we take half the wages in hotels, restaurants, gyms, baths and entertainment, we let go of the social contribution tax, and we reduced the business tax by half. The result of the strong and targeted wage support system is that 250,000 jobs were protected out of some HUF 80 billion, which is about 5 percent of the four and a half million employees. We have given investment support to 1434 companies in Hungary in order to keep the jobs and create new jobs; this has helped keep and create 280 thousand jobs. We have introduced guarantee programs, we have spent a lot of money on everyone's Széchenyi Card program managed by the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and Kavos! to be available quickly and cheaply. With cheap loans, we helped nearly 40,000 businesses. In 2020, nearly HUF 500 billion was paid 1400 1400! a company for which private investment of nearly HUF 1700 billion will be made, mostly in the next two years, 2021 and 2022. More than half of the resources thus transferred to the economy went to micro and small businesses. Dear House, Economic protection measures proved to be effective, because in December Hungary had the same number of workers as before the outbreak. There are many types of statistical numbers, and the government attaches particular importance to only one of them: how many people work, how many people have jobs. I respectfully report to you that in December 2020, as many people worked in Hungary as before the epidemic, the number of people employed reached four and a half million. Currently, the unemployment rate in Hungary is slightly higher than before the crisis, 4.3 percent, but I would also like to indicate that this is the third best figure, i.e. the third lowest unemployment rate across the European Union. Dear Parliament, Once there are enough vaccines, we will begin to gradually and responsibly alleviate the restrictions. We are not simply returning to where we were in 2019, but we are launching an action plan and introducing new economic development measures. A summary of these measures is called an economic re-launch action plan. [[11.30]] The government believes that the Hungarian economy should be restarted with job creation, tax reduction and support for investment. We stick to the principle of work instead of aid, because this has been the economic basis for success in the last ten years. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The rebooting action plan consists of seven steps: the tax on housing construction fell to 5 percent; we give 3 million HUF for house renovation; we provide wage support to companies in difficulty; we have launched the largest medical wage increase program in recent decades; we return the 13th month pension in four waves; we introduce income tax exemption for young people under 25 years; and we provide interest free rebooting fast loans to the smallest Hungarian businesses up to HUF 10 million. As the next step of the Economic Restart Action Plan, if we go beyond the steps we have just said, we will also launch a large-scale, multi-billion-forint investment and investment support programme. We will finance these together with the European Union. The biggest winner of this action plan, this part of the action plan, will be higher education. In the coming years Hungary's largest university development plan will be implemented, and we will invest approximately HUF 1500-2000 billion in our Hungarian universities. Ladies and gentlemen, On Friday we also started to allocate the first instalment of the 13th month's pension. This shows that the nature, direction and logic of today's crisis management is different from that applied in Hungary before 2010. This crisis management, our crisis management is of a national nature, it does not make Hungarian people pay the price of the crisis. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] In 2010, the world ended in Hungary when the prices of crises were mainly paid by pensioners. In 2010, we decided that during the greatest crisis and in 2010 we would guarantee the value of pensions and then, when our economy was strengthened, we also agreed to give back what the leftist had taken step by step. Dear House, I believe that Hungary is a strong country, and that is why Hungary stood up well during the outbreak of the virus; it is a strong country because it bravely stood up and won the battles in Brussels for its own interests; but it is also a strong country for our country because it can appreciate those who have built this country with a life's work. It is important to appreciate financially our fellow countrymen who have worked a life and have improved the lives of their families and the country. This sacrifice is a duty for us, their offspring, to acknowledge. Finally, I would also like to say a few words about the tax exemption for young people under the age of 25. No one has ever done this in Hungary, no such measure has been introduced, but we believe it is important that all young people can stand on their own feet and start their own lives. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Young people will benefit from a tax benefit, a baby shower, a CSOK and a home creation, and a tax benefit for children in addition to raising children. Thus, with these measures, young people's early life and their young adult years can become round. Dear Parliament, Finally, let me give a brief summary of the tasks that have emerged here in the months ahead. We will work on three major cases: firstly, we will go through the mass vaccination operation; secondly, after the consultation, we will gradually, with due caution, lead to restrictions; thirdly and finally, we will restart the economy, we have a rebooting action plan, we will implement all its points, and I hope that Hungary will be stronger after the outbreak than before. I would ask my fellow Members to support the Government's crisis management and economic re-launching action plan, regardless of party standing. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-15-2	Dear Parliament, After the Prime Minister's speech has barely exceeded the twenty-minute time frame, the factions have 8-8 minutes to respond. First, I give the floor to Peter James. [[Interjections and murmurs in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, There's a lot to talk about, they say. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] He was talking about starting the economy again. We didn't really know exactly how, at least something circular was drawn up, that there would be a national consultation as I came to Parliament, I saw that there were new billboards in which they announced that they would restart the economy - ; we also know that there is a 4-percent minimum wage increase, which means 140 forints a day, a very nice amount; we also see that it offers credit to Hungarian people, which, of course, will have to be repaid, which is not a very sure point in terms of the hopeless future; and there is, of course, or there is no Chinese vaccine, but if there is, no one will need it. So for the time being, you seem a little indecisive, Prime Minister. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] This is why he is launching another national consultation; he is obviously fleeing decision making, trying to stall time. And my problem with that is not only that the national consultation always proves to be a very expensive genre, but most of all my problem is that there is certainly no time for this clowning here and now, in an emergency. So let's get some important things straight from the beginning, so let's move on. One, vaccination cannot be made compulsory, that is what we say. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] The vaccination should work on a voluntary basis, which in turn means that the vaccine cannot be given benefits, because if I prefer someone, I will inevitably harm someone else. (Interjections from the ranks of the governing parties. ) And it is not possible for people in Hungary to be disenfranchised who, say, do not want to be vaccinated with Chinese vaccines of uncertain origin. Two, it is not the job of politicians to convince the population of the usefulness of vaccination, it is the job of professionals, doctors, virologists. They say that, yes, we should, preferably with a vaccine approved by the European Medicines Agency, because it is feared that Hungarian administrations not only want to be professional, but even to you. You seem to be acting like an African quack on this matter. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Or a Chinese pharmaceutical agent who says he's told us now that every vaccine that's ever been used to inoculate at least a million people in the world is good. In other words, if there's any Chinese stuff used to inoculate a million Africans or a million Chinese, you think it should be good for the Hungarians, because if we don't, if we don't, if we pull our tongues, [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Racist!]] If we're worried about our safety, we can go to the end of the line. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] And even this year, we will rot in a mask under restrictions. That's the thing. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] This, Prime Minister, is nothing more than a first human trial, second extortion. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. A statement from the opposition: That's right!]] I know very well that blackmailing your friends is a cool thing, but this isn't Russia and China, it's Hungary, an EU Member State, you know? In our country, in the Western world, it is not the government's job to punish the people, but, for example, to ensure that there is a free choice of vaccines for those who want to take advantage of this opportunity; I would add that the European Union will provide all the help it can. According to the Commission, 85 percent of the population will soon be able to be vaccinated with a safe Western vaccine. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] If you arrive late from this vaccine to Hungary and there is only a small amount, it means that you, Prime Minister, have so much value, so much lobbying power. [[Interjections, murmuring in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Which, of course, is no wonder who likes to negotiate with someone who keeps spitting, constantly blackmailing Europe, like you did last time on the EU rescue package? [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right! Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] [[11.40]] Prime Minister! Can't you, for once in your life, not blackmail Europe but treat it as a partner? He does not blackmail, but treats Hungarian people as partners, where does he treat the opposition as a partner? ! [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Last year, you asked the opposition for an extraordinary mandate to deal effectively with the crisis. We have given you this authority, confident that you will feel the situation and, exceptionally, you will not focus on theft, but on the country. Well, it didn't work! In recent times, instead of dealing with the crisis and stealing all the time, you've always pointed at someone else. He had unlimited power, but he blamed the opposition, Brussels, Soros, and the Hungarian people who didn't take you seriously enough. Prime Minister! If that's all he could do, then why on earth did you need that unlimited power? ! Why? To amend the electoral law? You needed the unlimited power to fill the Fidesz foundations with hundreds of billions? [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] That's why I needed unlimited power. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] To bleed out opposition authorities? Did you need the unlimited power to get Ripper and the rest of the good-for-nothings to renovate your hotels out of billions of public money? Is that why you needed the power? ! [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Yes!]] Prime Minister! In this country, 14,000 of our compatriots died from the corona virus. Who knows how many thousands of people died from missing medications? Hundreds of thousands left without a living. And then you have the nerve to come here and ask for another warrant? Well, you're not gonna get it. Not from me. Countdown, yeah, that's what you're gonna get. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right! Moore in the pro-government benches.]] There was a dog sale in Buda once, Prime Minister. Once! There was HUF 3600 billion in the Economic Protection Fund. That's a lot of money. This money could have saved the entire Hungarian economy or all the jobs, the entire catering sector, taken over 80% of the workers' wages, increased unemployment benefits, tax-free minimum wage, and more. [[Intercom from Jobbik: Health!]] It's a historical crime! [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!]] It's a historical crime that in these critical times, you didn't save the people, you saved yourself. The money you're supposed to spend on job protection, you're throwing it all over something else. He spent 192 billion forints not on wage subsidies, but on athletic stadiums. He spent 100 billion forints not on supporting businesses in distress, but on Fidesz foundations. He spent 86 billion forints not on helping the unemployed, but on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which, no, was once again built by Lőrinc Mészáros. But he also made his way here to Zsolt Semjén's hunting exhibition. You've been saved. You've only let the people die. And he's still not talking about opening up the country, he's still not talking about restarting life, he's starting another national consultation instead. Prime Minister! Without your data collection, we know perfectly well what the Hungarian people want: they want their lives back. They want life, you know, not consultation. They want money, not propaganda. Instead, you start writing letters while leaving complete sectors, complete sectors to be destroyed, just so you can get your hands on it for pennies! Well, that's what this is all about. Let's not kid ourselves. [[Grumbles and interrogations in the ranks of Fidesz: Hey, hey, hey!]] If there's a well-functioning restaurant, don't make it work for anyone else. You can do the same for yourself. 'Cause they don't have enough money yet, do they? You don't have enough yachts, you don't have enough land, palaces, planes? You only own half the country, but it looks like you need it all. Well, we're not! The people you rob today, whose lives you eviscerate, whose businesses you destroy, well, tomorrow, they will fight you back as a shifter crowd, along with us. And trust me, there's no money, no money that can save you. Prime Minister! Prepare to fail. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2021-02-15-4	Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Anyone who's been surprised in the last eight minutes, I'm very sorry because they've probably been very little in the House. [[James Peter intervenes.]] However, if you think that you do not have a fee for silent listening to such speeches, you are wrong, you are in it. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] So thank you very much for your patience for all those who testify to this, and I would like no one behind the mask to be the leader in disorderly conduct, at least on the right. I don't want the other side. It's Ferenc Gyurcsány's turn. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-15-5	Thank you for the floor. Look, I think the basic question is quite simple: we need to encourage our fellow countrymen to follow the rules and get themselves vaccinated. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] In my opinion, it is not worth arguing about, it is a pity to enter into silly debates that the opposition does not want the Hungarian people to be vaccinated. That's not true! We have to take care of ourselves, take care of the others. What we think is that we should only be vaccinated with a vaccine that has been approved by the European specialised agency, should be considered as a precaution and a responsibility. That's all we're talking about. To be honest, I think that sooner or later, of course, there will be a European permit for the Russian and Chinese vaccine, until we have it, while we are more cautious about this, it is not worth making a policy out of it. I don't think you're doing a fair job in this case when you accuse the opposition of being anti-vaccination. It's not like that! Then when the time comes, obviously we will, too, and I will get inoculated, and we will encourage everyone to do so. Surely the Prime Minister is telling the truth when he talks about the economy. Why would I think he wouldn't do that? [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] At the same time, I see that this country has long been in such uncertainty as it is now, and the exposure of certain sectors is truly dramatic, and those who are interested in it do not see the optimism that the Prime Minister suggests to us. They can't see! Sadness knows what kind of statistical record you're referring to. We see destruction and hopelessness around us in many places; not everywhere, in many places. In this, I see the government as insensitive, one that, in my opinion, James Peter is rather precise, though passionately speaking about his own, building the world that belongs to him, but also turning to the world with great insensitiveness. I'm sorry about that. Those who look at other numbers see that there is no other country in Europe that has given so little to wage support, existential preservation, job retention. We are far, far, far from the last in Europe. The Prime Minister says that the biggest university development program in the last 30 years will be coming up. There will certainly be a lot of investment, and you will certainly steal a lot of it. But, you know, we're getting used to this. Here's the real question: what's the end of it? What you call a change of model means about a few people, three, five, seven people, private individuals, who form a board of trustees, give away a portion of their national wealth, intellectual and physical. What you are really doing is stealing from the nation because you are afraid of the spiritual freedom that is still in higher education. Like MTA, the Academy, CEU, they're now dealing with universities. You are disturbed by this kind of mental diversity. And I think that what you are doing is not simply a patriotic act, but a betrayal of the pledge of Hungarian ascension and survival. You're privatizing universities, giving them into private hands without any consideration, which I consider to be a very serious sin. We're turning into this election campaign here, the last year and a half. As I see it, it bothers you that the opposition against you is trying to show you uniform strength and alternative to the logic of the central force you have invented. I think it's right. [[11.50]] Of course, the opposition is diverse, but it thinks in the same way or in the same way: it wants a free, democratic, European Hungary against you. You'll hear my name a lot the next year. Any questions, the answer will be Gyurcsány. I have to admit, it doesn't bother me that much, by the way. So, if I understand correctly, the eye-shooter, the liar, the drunk, the thief, the material killer will come up here. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] There is, Congressman, as I know you and your intelligence and morals, I know that there is more, to be honest, that is what I am talking about. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]] What I'm talking about, my dear sir, is that this country has serious problems, even with the epidemic itself. What would happen if we could talk about these things wisely, treating the country like adults, and you wouldn't have the answer to all of this, Gyurcsány? I understand that this causes a lot of people emotional satisfaction, and they don't have to take sedatives, because after two spins, you can relax a little, but the truth is, if that were true, social security would have to pay me, because I'm saving a lot of drugs for the right-hand audience. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches. Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] On the other hand, I suggest a little deeper thought: to consider Hungary a partner and to think that adults are living in this country, because it is no different to talk about country or nation than to consider those who live in this country and make up the nation as equals; and to consider crisis management as a national issue only if I consider all citizens to be part of it. And that is not what you are doing, you are talking to us from above; you are actually not representing the nation, but your own ambition of power, lyingly, unfairly. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-15-6	I now give the floor to Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2021-02-15-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Prime Minister! Indeed, in the last year, our daily lives have been determined by the viral situation. People, families, moved into their lives with fear, fear of what will happen tomorrow, what will happen to their future and what will happen to them at all; fear that they will be infected by losing someone in the family or even their own lives, because during the past epidemic period, this epidemic has claimed the lives of nearly 14,000 people. But what is surprising is that people are also afraid of being hospitalized because there are not enough doctors, there are not enough nurses, there is not enough resources in hospitals to heal. In the last ten years, you have taken serious billions out of the health sector, and instead of making up for it now, you have done virtually nothing. And one thing: during the epidemic period, they gave sport twice as much support as they gave health care. These numbers are very talkative, and they tell us everything about your politics. But there is also fear in people that they will lose their jobs, that tomorrow they will be without income, and from what they will support their families. But in recent times, the government has simply set the possibility of social protection to zero. In the past, the municipalities had the opportunity to support the local residents in some way, but you have virtually also made the local governments penniless. As a result, many tens of thousands of people remained in their own tribulation. And I didn't even mention the situation of the elderly and pensioners at the time. Last year, you gave the elderly less than 4 percent of the pension while food prices skyrocketed, with no other support whatsoever. Prime Minister! You said what a good thing it is, the pensioners are coming in for the first week of the 13th month's pension. Technically, this one-week pension amount is not enough to compensate for the timelessness of recent years. Prime Minister! You obviously don't understand this, perhaps because someone with such a rich family doesn't have to be afraid that in the middle of the month he might not have anything to eat or can't pay the heating bill. People's fears are real, because there are hundreds of thousands of people in this country who are in a difficult, impossible situation without their own faults. These are restaurant owners, pension owners, waiters, chefs, travel agencies, and I could go on and on for a very long time. Decent people who, at best, just lost their income, but worse, their whole life's work. Prime Minister! The biggest mistake in the past year is that for people who have been in a lot of trouble, you, the government, have given virtually no help. Everything else is bullshit. We know very well that the government's economic protection measures have been taken with two objectives: on the one hand, you want to prove that you have solved the problems of small and medium-sized enterprises, the situation of people who are left without income, but we know that this is not the case. And this is what the practice shows, that you give the people in need as little money as possible. I would just like to mention two figures: you have awarded a total of HUF 23 billion in additional wages, but so far only HUF 7 billion has been paid. These are ridiculous amounts at national level. Of course, in the meantime, last year just to mention a few examples of payments from the Hungarian Fashion and Design Agency Nonprofit Zrt. 2.3 billion, Expo 2020 Hungary Nonprofit Kft. He received HUF 8.5 billion for his appearance at the World Exhibition in Dubai, and Kisfaludy2030 distributed almost HUF 100 billion to him, from which unfortunately HUF billions were given to Lőrinc Mészáros, while the small travel agencies received almost nothing. How is that, Prime Minister? I think it is a very serious problem, especially recently, because of the strengthening of confidence that you are slipping data, you are not saying true numbers. Let me give you a simple example. You have started communicating the KSH data that the Hungarian net wage is HUF 244 thousand, and shortly thereafter, according to the data of the Institute of Economic Research, this is net for HUF 200 thousand in 2019; obviously because part-timers' wages have not been included. I asked some ministers the simple question of exactly how many part-time employees there are. They told me everything, but they didn't tell me the real numbers. Prime Minister! We have further serious questions. I would like to find out why the government is refusing to extend, raise unemployment benefits. Why won't you pay full sick to those who are forced to stay at home because of the coronal virus? Why don't you pay at least 70 percent of the rent in every sector affected by the coronal virus? And finally, every day we ask you why you refuse to pay the HUF 500,000 wage supplement awarded to social workers. People continue to demand these measures. Prime Minister! If you do not believe and are uncertain, then put these questions in the next national consultation, and you will know the answer. I look forward to your answers. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-15-8	I now give the floor to Szabó Timea.
u2021-02-15-9	Prime Minister! You started your speech by telling me what happened in the last two months. That's a little unusual at the beginning of the year, because it's a time of year, not a two-month evaluation. But no wonder you don't want to tell us about last year's performance, because the government's performance is a very pathetic picture. [[12.00]] You've settled the country recently by saying that every life matters. Let's take a look at the government's performance from this side. Let's start with what you don't like to talk about - the mortality data. You said on September 4th, "I'm looking at the number of deaths in the first place." So Hungary is measuring the success of defence in human lives. When the number of deaths increased above 7000 in Hungary and we had the third worst number in this regard in proportion to the population across the EU, you suddenly considered it tasteless to bring up these statistics. And recently he said that anyone who is fast saves a life, who is slow, loses a life; he said this to his colleague in the Czech Republic. It is a pity that in the summer and early autumn he did not act in this spirit, when virologists, including Ferenc Jakab, who advises you, warned you that there will be an amazing problem in the fall, and that the epidemic will run through us like a fast train. What did you do compared to that? On November 2nd, he had a football match before 20,000 people just because he couldn't give up his sick hobby. At the end of October, the number of deaths at home had reached peaks, and you refused to take any action against all European countries until mid-November. Then I ask you, Prime Minister, that all life really mattered, or it was just your sick hobby. But let's continue to see how many people's lives matter to you, a little bit in terms of the economy. Your confidence is amazing, Prime Minister, when you brought up public debt, because today the government debt is at its 30-year peak in Hungary. Let's not forget that earlier this was your biggest boogeyman, and he used it to scare the country, and compared to that, we've managed to get it to a 30-year peak in the past. He also said that the government still needs people's support during the epidemic. Prime Minister, this is also true: people also want your support, and let us look at the recent recorded unemployment figures, which, according to the HCSO and the National Employment Service, show a very different picture than what you outlined here: this year, there were 299 thousand job seekers, 49 thousand more than in the same period of the previous year. A city the size of Nagykanizsa is now more unemployed than a year ago. So I don't know what you're lying about these numbers, Prime Minister. In January this year, 147 thousand people received no financial support, with 32,000 more than a year earlier. 300,000 are registered unemployed, 150,000 people are not receiving any benefits, and you said that after three months, everyone will have a job. So does all life really matter, Prime Minister, or is it just yours? Let's keep looking. Three days ago, the government abolished the health care of the 70,000 people who had no job. There are 70,000 people who, because of your sick policy, will only be cured if they pay for it on the spot. And if he gets a heart attack or a stroke, he'll get the big check. Your cruel, inhuman government calls these people stowaways, freeloaders, deprived of healing. This is particularly cynical when, as I said, 300,000 people are registered as officially unemployed. These people don't get social security. This 70,000 people would otherwise cost a total of HUF 6 billion in the budget, exactly the tenth of what you spend on Zsolt Semjén's hunting exhibition. But it's more important to you to have your gentleman's slepper's sick, stuffed animal-filled hunting exhibition for 64 billion forints than 70,000 people's health care. So does all life really matter, Prime Minister, or is it just yours? According to press reports, doctors and nurses work in coats, hats and scarfs at the Fiumei Road Accident Institute, because it is so cold; however they have been asking the government to replace the hatches for years, nothing has happened. Then do all life really matter to you, Prime Minister, or is it just your own life? According to KSH, last year 103,000 businesses were forced to close down. Only in December last year and this year, 26 thousand individual businesses announced their recess, and in the catering industry there are 60 thousand out of 140 thousand businesses in any kind of operation. Do you have any idea how many families this affects? Does every life really matter, or is it just yours? They are proud of their one-week pension bonus payment, while last year the pension was raised by a total of 3 percent, with the price of sugar rising by 12 percent, flour by 7 percent, and food oil rising by 16 percent. So does all life matter, Prime Minister, or is it just yours? You said they were developing universities. You do not develop universities, Prime Minister, you have privatized 15 universities because you cannot brainwash young Hungarians. You cannot bear the fact that Hungarian young people do not fall for all the lies and bullshit you are trying to feed them. In recent months, you have begun to cement Lake Venice, Lake Balaton. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Lake Neusiedler [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: The ice! Dr. Zsolt Semjén: It's ice, not concrete!]] so their luxury ships can land there. It's very funny, Zsolt Semjén, that it's ice. They began to cement around their own, István Tiborcz, your son-in-law's luxury ships or even Péter Szijjártó, who is a luxury yachter in the summer and cannot account for it. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] They're destroying all the natural treasures. Does all life matter, Prime Minister, or is it just yours? You don't shy away from anything, stealing or cheating or cheating because you steal. Instead of helping people, you spent last year under the authorisation law according to the Hungarian Gazette: 192 billion on athletic centers, 323 billion on military vehicles, 318 billion on road projects [[Moore, a round of applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] 82 billion on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, 43 billion on sports development and 63 billion on other renovations, while hundreds of thousands of people lose their jobs and cannot go to the hospital. Of the 3600 billion saved for economic protection, 2,500 were spent on themselves alone. But they're not just stealing, they're cheating us. They're puppetizing Christian-conservative values here, while József Szájer slides down the gutters from a junkie sex party. They preach about the only recognized institution of marriage and its everlasting family form, while Antal Rogán was engaged in his third eternal marriage. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] And he wasn't even prepared to take out a HUF 1.5 billion loan to buy half of Borsod County... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic. Applause for the opposition.]]
u2021-02-15-10	Thank you, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Bertalan Tóth. Bertalan Tóth is next. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister! Those who gain time gain life: a very important saying, you have confirmed it, and I agree with that. 13 752 people, 13 752 Hungarian compatriots lost their lives in the corona virus. I wish they'd had that saying before their eyes in the summer. If only the summer hadn't been spent on the Adriatic or the Balaton, but the health care system, the epidemiological system, had been prepared for what had happened, which had already been pointed out by the virology professionals in the early fall, that if we went on like this, the worst scenario would have happened! Unfortunately, the worst scenario has come true, Prime Minister. The mandate you referred to and this year begins with this, and last year, Parliament had two such decisions, grouped around two concepts: trust and responsibility. In the spring, the opposition would have voted in confidence for you, but you ran over the opposition's hand, and it would have been a shame to give that confidence, since you proved it during the first wave, and the government has also proven that not all people in Hungary matter, but only the privileged ones. At the next mandate, I said that we would vote in favour of the 90-day emergency period, but it's not about trust anymore, it's about responsibility. And then you said not here in Parliament, but in several interviews, that the responsibility is yours, the responsibility is yours. In comparison, a few weeks, months later, he talked about the responsibility of the operational tribe, because they are the ones who are proposing the measures. [[12.10]] Then suddenly Brussels has the responsibility for the disease management, and here too, referring to it, but it has been said that the opposition is responsible for a lot of things here. So you can say, Prime Minister, that you do not take responsibility, so you have failed in trust and responsibility. But it's been three months, and it's really time for reckoning. Prime Minister, you are certainly not authorized by Parliament or the Hungarian people to include theft in the Fundamental Law. I'm sure you're not authorized to destroy the University of Theatre and Film, make the lives of the students impossible. I'm sure they're not authorized to have the last resort of university autonomy, university autonomy, and you're going to eliminate it. They weren't even authorized to silence the Clubradio. In particular, they were not authorized to destroy Hungarian self-governments for petty political revenge and to bleed out the authorities led by the opposition. I'm sure you're not authorized to do that. Let us see what measures have been taken in the field of the economy. There is a discreet charm, a picantria, that György Matolcsy and Mihály Varga are discussing through me the correctness and wrongness of the current economic policy. Here there is a contrast between the leaders of Hungarian economic policy, the Prime Minister's right hand and left hand argue that this direction, which the government represents, is a good one. According to György Matolcsy, he wasn't very successful. However, I would like to refer to a sentence of his, and I would like to highlight what he said at a forum; he said that we have managed to resist the temptation to help people in distress and businesses in distress; this is what you are saying as aid. However, it is about one and a half million people working part-time for less income, but it is about 520 thousand pensioners receiving a pension below 100 thousand forints, 275,000 pensioners at risk of slipping down, tens of thousands of businesses, we have heard numbers here, they are on the edge of tourism and catering. A 4-percent minimum wage increase, which is more like a 3.6 per cent minimum wage increase, does not help the lives of hundreds of thousands working on minimum wage. The Prime Minister spoke of a work-based society, but he could not resist the temptation to help Lőrinc Mészáros' companies. What work did Lőrinc Mészáros do in return for 18 billion forints of support, besides getting rid of hundreds of his employees? What work did Zsolt Semjén do to receive billions of HUF for his hunting exhibition? What kind of work did the Tennis Association do to deserve billions of forints of aid? What work did the Mathias Corvinus Collegium Foundation do in exchange for HUF 500 billion? So it is quite clear that for those who need help, they have been able to resist helping, so that jobseekers whose incomes have fallen, and their people are stuffed with our common money. Mr Prime Minister, the mistrust that surrounds the vaccination situation is also your responsibility, because you do not speak openly, you are not honest about your communication, you are communicating in a mess, you are entrusting a foreign minister with a decision on the use of a vaccine. It's all taking people to worry. This mistrust exists, since there is no proper vaccination plan, we do not know when it will come, how it will come, the registered will surely receive, who is not registered, the end of the line. So there are a lot of communication errors that, let's say, Muller Cecília is now pretending that they weren't expecting this kind of epidemiological data. So there are many, many mistakes that make people mistrust. You will sweep off any proposal that would really be about helping people. The 80 percent allowance, the increase in job search time and benefits for at least a transitional period, the 100 percent allowance, and we could list it. Prime Minister, if you launch another national consultation, the opposition will always be in the mood to ask questions, perhaps even those that you do not necessarily formulate. You could ask the entrepreneurs, who are on the edge of the bank, satisfied that the government spends billions of the economic protection fund on space exploration, hunting exhibitions, sports halls and hotels of Lőrinc Mészáros. Ask people to inject themselves with a vaccine that the Hungarian authorities have approved without any substantive examination on government instructions. I could list a lot of questions that people probably wouldn't answer that you're counting on. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-15-12	I give the floor to István Simicskó.
u2021-02-15-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, Allow me, on behalf of the KDNP fraction, to thank you for your information and thank you to the government for the work you have done so far, thank you to the operational tribe and to all the epidemiological experts, as every day Hungarian society receives extensive information about where we are, how we stand. Honestly, they're telling people what to do, how to deal with this epidemic as soon as possible. I think we should thank you for that. Of course, listening to the colleagues of the left-wing faction leaders, I am reminded that, of course, we are always welcome, especially in crisis situations, suggestions, comments and criticisms, especially from people who have already solved a number of crises during their lives, managed to overcome difficult periods and, of course, successfully and effectively experienced various crises. In this House, we are now at a point where we have not seen a single crisis resolved by Jobbik. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Wait for it, Pistam, wait for it!]] and none of the other left-wing parties were successfully resolved. On the other hand, we have already seen this, without success, without success, with the responsibility and burden passed on to the people. So I am always careful how and how deeply we must accept your critical comments. Of course, you can speak loudly, quietly, wisely here, but you are certainly not very good at the matter of credibility. I think everyone in Hungary sees this, and everyone knows who they can count on in the trouble. The past period, and not only the current, but the last 11 years have proved that the Fidesz-KDNP government can be expected in all difficulties, in all difficult situations, be the economic crisis, be the migration crisis, be it any other problem than, well, now a pandemic, a pandemic, the Hungarian government does protect people's lives, and, with all its efforts, seeks to reopen the economy as soon as possible, so that life can return to normal. I can see that, but I think a lot of people can see that, and I think your voters can see that. Another issue is that you are trying to draw attention to yourselves, of course, with various loud speeches here, but the facts remain facts, so I think that self-examination is good in this situation and the modesty is sufficient if you allow me to make this statement. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's useful!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd just like to refer to a brief historical reflection. The Spanish flu epidemic in 1918, which was also a pandemic and a pandemic, we have talked a lot about it, and many, many experts bring it up as an example. What did we see there? There is a clear historical experience, which is important for us now: the reduction of human contact was clear even then, and the introduction of facial masks, protective masks, and even the closure of restaurants and schools. In which cities in the United States they did not do so, since the Spanish flu started from a military base in Kansas City, and during World War I, American soldiers brought it into Europe, resulting in a pandemic, so where they moved late and relaxed early, the number of deaths caused by the epidemic was much higher everywhere. So basically, I think that everyone should take this into account, that is what the Hungarian government is doing, and that international experience shows that, yes, there is a need for protection measures, there is a need to comply with the rules, because they are people's lives. Here is what has been said here: We are in 21 and obviously the knowledge of medicine and virologists also includes the possibility of developing a vaccine. [[12.20]] This human knowledge has been given, in many places this type of production is already taking place. This is a joyful fact, for it can mean that we can end this epidemic as soon as possible and stop this disease, this rotten, nasty virus. What can the Hungarian Government do? What the Hungarian Government does is that it wants to achieve the protection of the Hungarian people as soon as possible. The foreign minister is obviously negotiating everywhere because he is also responsible for the foreign economy on behalf of the government and brings in effective and tested vaccines as soon as possible in order to protect the Hungarian people. Totally understandable, normal, eligible effort. I don't know what's wrong with that. I don't even understand the criticism from left-wing parties. In addition, the government is making efforts, not least, to make serious sacrifices in order to restart the economy as soon as possible, because the economy is the real engine of our society as a whole, because it is necessary for economic operators to find their opportunities. The announced measures set out in the Action Plan, which the Prime Minister has listed, are all joyful to all of us, to entrepreneurs working in economic life and to all of us. To highlight just a few: obviously the 5 percent reduction in housing tax an exemplary interest-free loan of HUF 10 million to help businesses as well. The Prime Minister referred to the payment of wage support for troubled sectors, which the government has started, and this is also an exemplary act. I believe that the biggest health wage increase in the last century is indeed justified, which was also criticised by the left-wing Members who spoke before me. I don't understand, once they praise Hungarian doctors and nurses, other times they feel sorry for their salaries and salaries. The restoration of the 13th month pension is also a major historical act, and the credit moratorium has also helped millions of Hungarian families to overcome the difficulties. So what we see is that the government is doing the right thing, we see that the government has taken the necessary protection measures in time, and these measures were necessary. This also provides the basis for effective defence. In addition, he has done everything in his time to buy the vaccine and even provides financial assistance to the troubled sectors. This is Szabó Timea talking about the problems with employment. What we see is that there is a shortage in certain professions, so there is not enough workforce. So we will certainly benefit from the economic measures that the government has taken. The consultation was a criticism. I think you can see clearly that over the last 11 years, the Hungarian government has been asking for people's opinions. We are constantly consulting people, especially in historical situations, especially at times when we need each other, we need to work together, find and demonstrate the path to recovery. Let me briefly respond to the criticisms in the one minute ahead of me. We have always said that the vaccine tested by the Hungarian authorities may come before the Hungarian people, and this can be used to inoculate them. This process is taking place. What I see is that the creative ingenuity of left-wing politicians has shown up in this crisis. Here, I could refer to XI. mayor of the district, who is the name-calling polyhistor of public spaces, and Péter Niedermüller is the owner of the mayor's office home to the bitcoin mine, or the deputy mayor, Gy. To Erzsébet Németh, who is a great gluer of the posters; that is to say, to the constraining steps, snotty decisions, revelations and actions, not to mention the mayors on the left who had been the first to inoculate themselves over the vaccination plan, ahead of many other needy people. We do not need such ideas, you are rich in such ideas, we see this, but we should strive to bring together and support the government's defence and save as many lives as possible in the coming period. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-14	I give the floor to the leader of the group of Máté Kocsis.
u2021-02-15-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Much has been said here today, but perhaps we should start with simpler and easier to digest. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his information. Secondly, I need to dismiss that charge immediately, and this is going to be the simpler part, which is that the government is not doing anything. Almost all the faction speakers said that the government is not doing anything in terms of economic measures. In addition to the fact that this is a baseless and vulgar lie, we are looking at what you see as nothing. Troubled businesses receive wage subsidies so that they can keep workers, that's quite something. As part of the home creation programme, Hungarian families will benefit from VAT reduction and housing renovation support. The government has launched the largest medical wage increase of all time, the government has declared a credit moratorium, which is a major help for over a million families. The 13th month's retirement period has begun, and what you've taken will now be restored. Young people don't have to pay personal income tax in 25 years. What follows for an interested person in politics if he puts the facts side by side? In a crisis situation... [[To Ferenc Gyurcsány:]] I'm glad you're back, Mr. Gyurcsány. [[Ferenc Gyurcsány: Anytime for you!]] I have something to say to you. I wanted to tell you that I hope that by the time I finish this part, you'll be back. [[Ferenc Gyurcsány intervenes.]] Don't yell at him. I listened to him quietly. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Well, not so much!]] Dear House, The opposition speeches did not go very well, except for the gentleman mentioned above. I have to say, they're not in very good shape. I would not consider the collection of Szabó Timea's shoveled panel collection with personalities on top of each other. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] What I find strange is that Jobbik's party president, who had been burning an EU flag a few years ago, is now insisting on all the EU institutions, and I also wonder why he mentions laws that were passed under the powers of extraordinary legal order that were all before Parliament. Congressman, it's not true what you said. The government has not decided, on the basis of an extraordinary legal order, on the cases which you have listed. [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties.]] There is a long list of reactions to the speeches, but since I have addressed you, Mr Gyurcsány, I hear that you have been playing hardball here with Congressman Balla. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Oh, come on!]] First of all, let us remain silent, Congresswoman, because I have listened to it. [[An uproar in the ranks of opposition parties. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I won't shut up! Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Get your shit together!]]
u2021-02-15-16	Don't bother yourself, Mr. Group Leader, feel free.
u2021-02-15-17	Secondly, Mr Gyurcsány [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Prime Minister!]] The thing is, anyone in this House can lecture Congressman Balla on morals, but you can't. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Oh! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You're the only one... Look here, Mr. Gyurcsány. You are the only one who has nothing to say about morality in this building to the Hungarians, you are the only one. You're the only one! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But don't you dare threaten me. It's not good for us, Mr. Gyurcsány. We would like you out of Hungarian public life. We'd like that. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Oh. Applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] You're so wrong when you think you're giving us something fun to play with. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Yes, you can.]] What hurts us is that your work... The cavalry attack, yes, the eyeball, liar, all because it is. Mr Gyurcsány [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Prime Minister! It's not that complicated, Mr. Group Leader.]] We don't make up accusations, these things happen. He lied and attacked his own people. [[Gergely Harvesto: You're lying now!]] He led a horse-riding attack on his own nationmates. What do you want to hear? That you didn't? We're not you. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Thank God.]] We can't say the opposite of what happened. Be kind, at least refrain from talking about moral superiority to Hungarian Members of Parliament. At least that! [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Moral superiority...]] Mr Gyurcsány, the fact is that many left-wing comments have been made today, but it is very interesting that they all had one voice. Even though they played this role, it is a good communication trick that Mr. James made a very serious, deep, offensive, offensive and violent tone of speech for your very loving speech. It made him think the same thing. It made you seem more at ease, more cooperative, good division of labor from your deputy, but we're not falling for it. They all said the same thing. That's the same language we've been hearing from you for 20 years. That's the language of lies and hatred. This is your political culture. He said the other day that a multicolored coalition came together. It's not diverse. It's just two-faced, Mr. Gyurcsány. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] The thing is, the last few years, and especially the epidemic, have shown your duplicity. I'll give you some examples. There aren't enough ventilators, then there's enough ventilators. You all said so yourself. There aren't enough masks to build up so many masks. The government does not close the borders, but if other EU countries close the borders, it is very well done. [[Gergely Harvestó: We never said that!]] What a role health care workers play, how pleased you are with them, then they'll be discredited, made of camuvides, reported. Shamelessly, Lajos Korózs is still clinging to the seat of the Health Commission. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Fidesz people hang on to the gutters!]] [[12.30]] They're constantly trying to create uncertainty about the vaccine, and you're saying they don't. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Don't you read statements from your own partymates? I doubt it. They create uncertainty, but György Hiesz and Imre László will be vaccinated because they can. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: Shame!]] They talk about cooperation, but they don't vote for measures against a coronal virus epidemic. [[Constant intervention from the opposition benches.]] They demand accurate information while spreading lies, spreading false news on a regular basis. They post deplorable videos from corpse houses, and I can't tell you enough about the production of Lajos Korózs. And it also includes criticizing the extraordinary legal order, but their mayors are happily contracted by Csaba Czeglédy on the basis of an extraordinary legal order. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Criminal!]] It's okay to have a special legal order. But the most amazing thing in their twofold color is that one of their leading politicians in a Western newspaper says that if people are dissuaded in the fight against the epidemic and the number of infected and dead will be high again this year, it could be a political advantage for the left in 2022. [[Constant interruptions.]] The only thing on the cake is that according to their mayor at the fair, if health workers didn't work, Viktor Orbán could be brought to his knees. During an epidemic! But, gentlemen, isn't nothing really expensive to you? ! [[Intercoms.]] We're not looking at eyeballs anymore, Mr. Gyurcsány. [[An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] We are no longer at the point of falsifying budget figures, you have come to the point that it is not so far from the sight of the eyes, it is only one step away from bringing the government to its knees with the cost of human lives, just to give them political benefit. Aren't you ashamed? ! [[Crying out. The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Thank you. [[A big round of applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-18	I will give the floor to Prime Minister once again in return.
u2021-02-15-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Many things have been said, let me try to respond to this situation in an unappreciably restrained way. [[Tordai Bence: Haha!]] First of all, I think it's a mistake for Jobbik's faction leader to stimulate an anti-vaccination mood. The vaccine saves lives. The vaccine is our only chance. Therefore, what has been said by Jobbik is not acceptable to us, we reject it, and we ask you to stop your anti-vaccination agitation. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I feel insulted by the fact that many millions of my compatriots consider the national consultation to be a joke by Jobbik. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches: It is!]] You're declaring people clowns and clowns who otherwise participate in this consultation. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I feel insulted by the fact that many millions of my compatriots consider the national consultation to be a joke by Jobbik. (Intercoms from opposition benches: It is!) You're declaring people clowns and clowns who otherwise participate in this consultation. (Dr. Agnes Vadai interrupts.) This is millions of people, and on their behalf, I reject your offensive remark. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. ) I would like to make a comment on the idea that you need a European authorisation or not for medicines placed on the market in Hungary in general, now regardless of the vaccine. I know that some people think that Europe represents a higher quality than Hungary. I know there are people who trust other people more than their own kind. I know that some people think that what is west of us is good; what is in Hungary is parlagi. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] I know that you think that the Hungarian authorities are not fit to do their job, but they are in no way fit to do what the Brussels authorities are capable of doing. Once again, I do not think that there is a need to demonstrate their absolute political commitment to Washington and Brussels during a virus against vaccines that do not come from Europe, from the West. Don't do that. I think it's a bad thing. We can argue about what and how, but I think that the opinion, knowledge and preparedness of Hungarian doctors, Hungarian researchers, Hungarian epidemiological experts are already seen as weaker than those of Brussels, and that is simply offensive and unacceptable for us who belong to the national side. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It has been said several times whether all life matters. I would like to confirm that all life in Hungary, especially all life in Hungary, is important, but we will also do our best to save not only the Hungarians, but also the foreigners who are staying with us. There have been comments on the fact that Conservative and National Entrepreneurs receive support from investment support. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] I would like to repeat what I said earlier: your red barons will also receive it. So I would like to reiterate that your red barons, capital groups, are also receiving investment aid. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai and Gergely Arató intervene.]] [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] I would like to repeat what I said earlier: your red barons will also receive it. So I would like to reiterate that your red barons, capital groups, are also receiving investment aid (Dr. Ágnes Vadai and Gergely Arató will intervene). if they come up with economically meaningful programmes. Look through the support lists, you'll find your own red barons on it. But I would like to reiterate that economic policy cannot be done on a pro-party basis. Economic policy must be done on the basis of job creation, so everyone who is willing to do so should be supported regardless of their views (Dr. Ágnes Vadai intervenes). And to create a mass of jobs. So the reds will be in on it, don't worry, ladies and gentlemen. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes. Intercoms.]] As regards the contribution of the head of the group of MSZP, I think it is important because it is difficult to have a meaningful debate if a serious leader, speaking of the Hungarian economy, is that there are 1.5 million part-time people in Hungary. No, my honourable fellow Member, you don't, you don't. Four and a half million people work in Hungary, and 231,000 of them are part-time. You know, there's a big difference between 1.5 million and 231 thousand, so you can't have a sensible economic policy debate. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] At the end of 2019, there were 229 thousand, and now there are 231 thousand. As far as mortality rates are concerned, I do not think this approach is tasteful, but politics is not always for our taste, so if you have raised this question, then that is what we have to deal with. Indeed, the number of deaths is the most important in a time of defense, because what we would want to do is save the lives of as many Hungarians as possible. After you do not trust in Hungarian data reporting, and surely you have your own bad experiences. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I'm not going to go into detail right now, so I'm going to bring Eurostat here instead. I would like to inform you that Eurostat keeps such a record, such a sad record of the so-called mortality surplus for each country, how many more people died in one EU country compared to the average for the previous five years. Here we will see it, and you can see it if you want it to be a 9 percent indicator in Hungary, which is painful. The same indicator is between 10 and 15 percent in France, the Netherlands and Austria and is above 15 percent in Spain and Belgium. This is what Hungarian crisis management looks like in a European context. Ladies and Gentlemen, Fellow Members! A lot of people attacked the economic re-launch action plan. First of all, I would like to tell you that the effectiveness of our economic protection can be measured by the fact that, according to Eurostat forecasts, the total Hungarian national product decreased by 5.2 percent in 2020. [[Gergely Harvesto: This is success.]] This means that in the European Union Spain, Greece, had a decline of over 10 percent; it was over 7 percent in France and Austria. Compared to this, our performance is more likely to be splintered. If I look at the same in the case of unemployment figures, then we can say that four and a half million people worked in December 2019 at our place, here at the Hungarians, and now there are four and a half million people working. I'm telling Szabó Timea that projecting statements in different statistical engravings leads to nonsense. That's why I'd like to repeat... [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Unfortunately, I'm trying to be very careful, believe me. It doesn't make any sense to project statistics with different sections on each other. [[Szabó Timea: Intersection?]] It's hard to slip through the stats exams there. [[Noise, interruptions, including Fidesz: Pears and apples, if that's what you mean better.]] [[12.40]] That's why, unfortunately, you don't appreciate that performance. [[Ferenc Gyurcsány: Like this?!]] what a country is able to show in order to maintain a job at a GDP loss of 5.2 percent. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: But don't talk about the country.]] GDP is falling by 5.2 percent, and the number of people at work is as much as before the crisis. That's a fantastic performance. Of course, you think that the government wants to show itself in this light, but that's not it. This is a fantastic performance for entrepreneurs and employers. This is where we arrive at the difference between you and us in crisis management. Because you want to give aid to people. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Help! Ferenc Gyurcsány: Lőrinc Mészáros already receives it!]] I do not dispute the good intentions behind this. We want to give you a job, because we think that if there's a job, you don't have to give aid. If I give you aid, it's not gonna be a job, so I'd better try to give you a job, 'cause people can make a living. So the national side, the Christian side, the Democratic side [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Christian page?]] the idea is to give priority to the promotion of jobs. Therefore, if we can choose to give a forint to aid or create jobs, we choose the job, and the numbers show that we are doing the right thing. Otherwise, those who are out of unemployment benefit will still have unlimited public work available, and no one will be left without work. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Congratulations!]] As far as the international comparison of unemployment is concerned, I must say that while unemployment is now 4.3 percent in Hungary, while France and Austria are higher than 7 percent. We will see that there are countries where unemployment is by far over 10 percent. Countries that are regularly, economically stronger than ourselves, rightly, but in this one-year period, both in terms of the amount of economic performance and the number of jobs, have been made weaker than we have. Several people have mentioned sovereign debt. What you obviously remember was that when you left the government power in 2010, Hungarian government debt was 82 percent of the total national product. From here, we took it down to 64 percent with ten years of work, and now, because of the crisis, we decided to let it go back, because we needed these resources to protect jobs, and we're letting it go back to 82 percent. The difference is 18 percent, so we consider Covid's government debt to be 18 percent. Eighty-two percent is high. What helps us to understand this, however, is that the European Union's average is above 95 percent. In Greece, 207 percent, with us 82 percent; in Italy 160 percent, in Italy 82 percent; in Spain 120 percent, and more. Overall, therefore, we are far below the EU average. And what I think is important, and with which I think we will win the years 2021 and 22 respectively, this is that the level of investment in relation to the national total product remained above 27 percent. At a time of crisis, during a very serious crisis that has shocked the entire European markets, during the crisis that has shocked our export markets, our national total investment rate, i.e. GDP, is above 27 percent. I would be surprised if this were not in the top three, but perhaps in the first place in the European Union. Ladies and Gentlemen, There has been talk of changes in health services contributions. This is a difficult subject, I suggest calmness. Indeed, on 12 February 80,000 people received a red light, i.e. they received a sign that they would not pay social security contributions and therefore they could not use a health service. These people are also registered under the name of the Treasury, which is where they have to pay their contributions. From this register we know that half of these 80,000 people are not present in the Hungarian labour market, i.e. they work abroad, and there are 11 percent of them who have not shown any activity. So our estimate is more than an estimate that about half of the 80,000 people, slightly more than half of them, are abroad, so they don't pay their contributions here, so they don't even use health services. That's where he'll pay for it, and that's where he'll probably use his health care. However, there are 11 out of 80,000 people, sorry, 13 percent of whom we are uncertain about their financial situation. [[Gergely Harvester: Millionaires probably...]] ; some of them are in a difficult social situation, and 7 percent of this 80% is in a serious social situation. That's what the analysis says. Therefore, we have opened up the possibility of a separate procedure for persons belonging to these groups, they may request the waiver of the debt, reschedule and receive benefits for the future, because they are in a difficult situation. That's the truth; everything else you've heard about it in the walls of this House, unfortunately, doesn't cover reality. I also think that my fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, said that we are bleeding out the municipalities; perhaps someone was talking about Budapest, which is what I always get. I want you to be as calm as I've ever been, so I can say a few words about this. On 31 December 2020, the total amount of HUF 122 billion was in the capital's account. [[It's an uproar.]] 74.9 billion in sovereign debt, 36.7 billion in cash, and 10.4 billion in Treasury. So there is a local government in Hungary with 122 billion HUF in its account. There are few municipalities who would not trade with this municipality. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] This situation is even more complicated and raises difficult questions, because if we look at the fact that in 2020 all the state aid that came from the European Union or went from the Hungarian budget, which is based on a political decision, we can say that 44 percent of all funds, or HUF 3000 billion, have been sent to Budapest. This bleeding out, my dear friends? [[Nacsa Lárinc: Oops!]] 44 percent of all resources, all state-controlled resources, went to the capital, and here they're talking about bleeding the capital? ! By comparison, six percent went to Baranya's region, that region, 6 to Budapest 44! In Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, 12 percent went to a difficult area, while 44 percent went to Budapest. He went to the Borsodi region 8th, to Budapest 44. Who bleeds out Budapest here, ladies and gentlemen? ! I would like to tell you that on this side, on the national side, we have never doubted that we need a strong capital for a strong Hungary, because the capital is not only the residence of the Budapest people, although it is also very important, but also the capital of the nation. And our weight in the world is determined by the development of the capital, the weight of the capital. A capital must be supported, and even the capital must wear shiny clothes, and as you can see, that is the case. However, I would like to ask you for some understanding and to admit that, in addition to such figures, if, in the next period, the regions that have received 8-10-12 percent funding will receive more and 44 percent of Budapest will be reduced, it will not be unfair, ladies and gentlemen, but rather lead us to the truth. [[A long applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] And it's not my bread, but since the Prime Minister has brought up the ring, I have to say a few words about this too. First of all, we can only be second in this genre. The best is the Jobbik. I quote them, they said such good things. [[Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Quote from the founding declaration:. The primary task ahead of the Jobbik Hungary Movement is to remove the Communist successor party and the extremist liberals united with it from the political power. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties. György Szilágyi: This is Fidesz!]] I hear it, I'm still reading it. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Amnesiac.]] From the mouth of our fellow Member James, I quote him, "Eye-shooters are free, the Patriots are in prison." We need to keep this case going until those responsible get their punishment. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[12.50]] To quote even more harshly from the leader of the group, we will still not give up on him, he says that, like Gyöngyöspata, Ference Gyurcsány will be banned from the county seat in Borsod. Congratulations to Jobbik, ladies and gentlemen. Congratulations. But without being stuck here for a long time with the core thoughts of my fellow Member James [[Fidesz benches.]] However, if I may, I would like to draw your attention to the paradox that it is now as if Jobbik were to defend the European Union, membership of the European Union and the European institutions with us, against the civil-national-Christian camp. [[Demercation and intervention in opposition benches. Dr. Szabó Timea: Ask Tamás Deutsch! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: József Szájer!]] So maybe it's not useless [[Dr. Szabó Timea intervenes.]] I would like to read the relevant key phrase from Jobbik's founding document. I quote: "We cannot accept the membership of the EU, which involves the fatal mutilation of our national independence. Congratulations to all of you. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Peter James: Read the Fundamental Law! Szabó Timea intervenes.]] And I would stay out of the ring myself, and I will try to do so in the future, but when the Prime Minister does what he has just done to talk about the integrity of the left and accuses us of dishonesty, I will always do that. And here's what I'm quoting the Prime Minister in the name of integrity. What could be done secretly in the previous months, so that in the last weeks of the election campaign we wouldn't find papers that we were about to do. There's not much choice, because I'm... not a little, very much. In Europe, no country has ever done anything like what we've done. I'm going to go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on It was perfectly clear that what we were saying wasn't true. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[James Peter: You could say the same!]] Why would we believe that now? [[Interventions from the opposition benches: Your own text! Dr. Agnes Vadai, applause.]] I will quote on this: The divine providence, the wealth of the world economy, and hundreds of tricks that you obviously don't need to know helped us survive. There is no more; there is no more. We can see that there is more, but lower, my friends, there is no such thing. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Delightfulness and a long applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-15-20	Dear Parliament, We now have a series of speeches before the usual agenda. A few seconds at a time [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It must have slipped!]] I usually give a technical break and ask my fellow Members to leave the meeting room quickly and quietly, as far as possible, if they have more important things to do elsewhere. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the room.]] I give the floor to Congressman Bence of Torda. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-21	Thank you for the floor. Dear Citizens, Dear Parliament, Everyone may know the experience when we think for a moment that we're waking up from a nightmare, but we soon realize that we're still in a nightmare. This is the Covid epidemic in the Orbán regime, a nightmare in a nightmare. The good news is, if everything goes well, we'll be out of the corona virus in six months, and in less than a year and a half, we'll wipe out the regime with the will of the electorate. The Covid epidemic is humanity's common nightmare. It is also a nightmare in a country that has a fair, responsible and competent government. Unfortunately, Hungary is not such a place. We have an infinitely unfair, irresponsible, incompetent government. A government that was badly involved in dealing with the epidemic and the economic crisis, but continued its practice under cover of disease management: the dispersal of public funds, the privatization of public wealth, the further concentration of power, the further reduction of our freedom. If it weren't for that, the Fidesz would have dared to come to the Covid Board meeting to discuss all this, but they didn't dare. It's a kleptocracy! They rob people's money, they rob people of their trust, and there's almost no government going on. Let's see what the government's important people really do. Péter Szijjártó rests on the luxury yacht of the billionaire oligarch; their MEP Szájer participates in a 25-person drug sex orgy during curfews in the eavesdemocracy To his greater glory, Minister Rogán tries to buy half of Borsod in the name of his third wife, the state bank controlled by his buddy 95 percent of his billions. But did you? Not even this one. The other minister hires CSOK for his vacation home, then buys two hundred million real estate for family purposes, also with over 90 percent public bank funding, so that things don't turn out the way he planned. The Minister of Finance and the President of the Central Bank are fighting a catfight on which one of them has made the economic crisis worse. Orbán is building the family estate, destroying two hundred-year-old monuments, and financing all of this with his daddy's money, whose companies are making an amazing extra profit from state orders. And who still governs: the Minister of Health is putting together King Matthias, the Minister of the Interior is sending soldiers to hospitals, the Minister of Foreign Affairs is conducting medical supplies and granting vaccine licenses, while kidnapping the Index, shutting down the Clubradio, beating up the SZFE, privatizing universities and bleeding out local governments. Yet the strength is running out, the trust is fading, which is both due to the fact that they started acting like hamsters when winter comes Winter is Coming. They pile up supplies faster and faster as they can, throw hundreds of billions of dollars into the accounts of fidesz entrepreneurs and fidesz foundations, and they don't even add up to appearances. The Prime Minister, the genius of the Carpathian Basin, and the great strategist, say that they have never worked more in Hungary, and in the next sentence, that the economy must be restarted. But then why, if everything's all right? The problem is so bad that you have to applaud János Trafikmutyi. But 2021-22 will not be about that. We'll get through Covid, we'll get through NER. And, dear government representatives, good news or bad news, but sweeping your regime doesn't solve the problem, you're just a small part of the problem, a symptom. Once we've wiped out the NER, we'll get to the real job. The Orbán regime was built because faith in security and justice was shaken, and you lied to the people inexpensive security and quick justice. But it wasn't treated, it was compounded. It is now apparent: the solution must be delivered to us, the forces of the Republic, and we in the Dialogue are sure that we will be working on it in the next period. We must end the era of exploitative, climate-killing capitalism and create a human-centred society and a sustainable economy for people. It's the green transition. The green transition to a new world, a just, peaceful and safe world. This is the task of the coming years, decades, this is what we need to establish a national consensus on, this is what we need cooperation for. However, from this national consensus, from this national cooperation, the parties of government today are still in pain, but they are excluded. Dear colleagues from the Government Party! Let me know when you're morally, intellectually, humanly grown up to do the job. Dear Citizens, Rest assured, in the meantime, we will do this work without the Fidesz, if necessary, against the Fidesz; we, the Green Left dialogueists, and we, the forces of the Republic. Let's go! Let's go get him. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2021-02-15-22	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary.
u2021-02-15-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As far as the election is concerned, on the one hand, I would like to tell you that the electorate will decide who to honor with their trust. But for the record, let's note that your party didn't take the liberty of running for election on its own once. About the epidemic [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] In recent weeks, Parliament has not met, but the government has not changed the speed of work in the fight against the virus. The virus had to be contained, the burden on health had to be reduced, and the government was working to get as many vaccines as possible. In the latter case, it is important that Brussels has not reached a good agreement. It's not time for tests, but it looks like somebody screwed up. [[13.00]] EU countries are at a disadvantage compared to other regions of the world when I look at vaccination numbers. As far as the number of deaths is concerned, we are well aware that they are not calculated in the same way in each EU country, and that statistics are not conducted in the same way. Hungary refers to all deaths where Covid infection was detected, regardless of the disease the deceased was suffering from. In some EU countries, this is not the way it is done, so instead of comparing absolute numbers, it is worth looking at how many people died compared to the many years average, how many more die. What I can tell you here is that at least 12 EU countries are worse than Hungary, such as Spain, Belgium, Italy or the Netherlands, and you are looking for statistics with a magnifying glass that you can say that Hungary is at the end of the line. This is unworthy, and I must say, a malicious policy, and it is not, incidentally, deeply offensive to our doctors and nurses. As far as economic aspects are concerned, they are no less important. It's not the end of the epidemic yet, but the government has already decided on a reboot plan. What you're asking is, if there are 4.5 million people working, so as many as before the outbreak, then why talk about restarting? Because we are not enough to go back to the former level, but we want Hungary to be further strengthened. This is why wage subsidies are granted to businesses in difficulty, which is why families are entitled to a credit moratorium, which is why the 13th month pension is being built back, which is why young people get tax exemptions in 25 years, which is why the home creation programme is expanding, which means a reduction in VAT and a renovation programme, and in order to keep in mind that businesses and small businesses can receive a loan of up to 10 million zero percent. That's what you call nothing. Otherwise, it would be much more honest if, while attacking this program, you could tell me which element is not exactly supported. The pension increase or the tax cuts or the home creation program? If you are attacking the home-building program, please speak to President Bertalan Tóth, who usually takes on the funds that the left is attacking. We have also heard from your fellow Member that he is criticizing the government for giving money for road renovations. What's wrong with that, honourable Member? Please explain this to the residents of the small settlements, to the towns where the roads need to be renovated, but I would also say that in your own constituency, you would explain to the people who live there that you do not support road renovations. And what have you done in the last few months? They were active, running the fake news scooter all the time. We remember the absurd chapters: we have heard a lot of false rescue stories here; but they also said that medical students are not equipped; they also said that chronic medical students should participate in the testing program; they also said that a German TV was told that there was no protective equipment in hospitals; they also said that the government was transporting patients to Budapest in order to make the statistics in Budapest worse; then they brought videos of the disease from the mortuary, and that none of the deceased died in the coronal virus. The line isn't over, but I don't think there's any left-wing irresponsibleness either. They're in the mood to fight the vaccine right now. They know that vaccination is the only way to end the epidemic, but they're only attacking the program, and given the consequences, they're not actually attacking the government, they're actually attacking the Institute of Pharmacy, the Centre for Public Health; they're even pressing charges against the Chief Medical Officer. Well, we're really gonna come to the conclusion that they left home over there. And they even openly admit why, because it would bring the government to its knees. During the epidemic, you have come to a decision-making point: either you are party politics or you are involved in the fight against the epidemic. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The former was chosen, and not only we, but also the voters, should be very well able to bear the consequences! Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-24	Now it's time for László Keresztes, leader of the LMP.
u2021-02-15-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to begin on the first day of the spring session by thanking everyone who is working to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people with respect to their work. The work of the Parliament is beginning during the spring period, so it is certainly appropriate to analyse briefly in a few sentences what has happened here in the past months, and I would like to say a few things about what we consider to be our most important task here in Parliament's Chamber, but I would like to respond specifically to one more thing about what Mr Prime Minister spoke about in his speech before the agenda. If we want to assess the past months, we must say that the government's crisis management has proved inadequate. They did not use the extraordinary mandate, but abused it, and one of the most critical manifestations of this was that, as soon as they had the opportunity to do so in government power, very significant resources were taken away from the municipalities, so it can now be seen that, by the way, the right-wing mayors have practically brought the municipalities to the brink of collapse, and thus, in particular, they are causing damage to Hungarian people. We must also say, and we must also talk about this, that in such a serious crisis, in an epidemiological situation, they are launching a vicious attack on Hungarian universities and Hungarian higher education. If we want to evaluate crisis management briefly, we need to say that you have basically just talked about helping those who are in the most difficult situation, but have not done so, and we are also hearing everywhere recently that the government has never given so much support to small and micro-enterprises. This is also a circumstantial lie, and we need to be clear, and the reason why they did not support small and medium-sized enterprises and small and micro-enterprises is because there was no money in the budget, they simply did not use it. Even now, in this serious epidemiological situation, you have considered it important to support your own oligarchs, especially Lurch Mészáros. It is quite amazing that in a situation where Lőrinc Mészáros took on more than HUF 10 billion of dividends from his construction companies, nearly 18 billion of Hungarian taxpayers' money was given to support the hotel chain of Lőrinc Mészáros, who thanked him for this, or this chain of hotels for the dismissal of over 800 people. But in the same way in the budget there are gigantic investments that are never refundable, amazing and cannot be supported by Hungarian national interests, of which the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, which you have encrypted, stands out, for which, according to your calculations, the amount of money will be spent in two years, of which 175 thousand new jobs could be created. In the last year, the municipalities have been affected by several successive restrictions, and now, with this step, a significant part of the business tax is being taken away from them by their decision. This makes it almost impossible to maintain and maintain the most important public services maintained by the municipalities. In recent days, the Association of County-righted Cities, with the signature of the government leaders, sent a clear letter to the Hungarian government indicating that if the government does not immediately recover these extremely important resources, then these basic, most important public services, such as public transport, public transport, drinking water, public lighting, and these important public services for the Hungarian people will fall. And what you have mentioned here in your speech before the agenda and what you are ringing as a clear change of model is not a change of model, but a completely clear and vile attack on university autonomy, university freedom. What you are doing is outsourcing universities, entire university assets, university property and university decision-making to private foundations and thus placing them under political control. So what you're doing is putting everything without concrete guarantees into foundations whose leaders you appoint, and these curators cannot be recalled, creating a situation where they can at any time, at any time, take any decision involving universities. That's pretty amazing. And what you're lying about here is that higher education is coming at some golden age, and it's about developing higher education. That's an obvious lie. Since 2010, they would have had the opportunity to develop higher education, develop university operations and increase the resources allocated to higher education rather than crowding out funds. Compared to this, the result of your policy is that during this time, in your governance, the number of students has decreased by over 30,000, and the departure from higher education and scientific life in terms of the humiliatingly low pay for academic staff. I think that one of the most important tasks we will have to do here in the spring session is to protect the local governments, make you back down and withdraw, to forget about the local government restrictions. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and we need to protect with all our powers, including the cities, university decision-making, university autonomy. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-15-26	To reply, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Allow me, in my first sentence, to join in the thanks that you gave for your speech. [[13.10]] We are all grateful to all those involved in the fight against protection and the coronal virus epidemic, of course to those working in health care, doctors, nurses, workers, but teachers, teachers in higher education, trade workers, those involved in maintaining public order, so it could be noted that we thank everyone for their participation in this joint task. Honourable Congressman, However, allow me to argue with everything else you have said, because you will continue where we left off in the autumn session; you will bring up the same topics and you will have the same debates here with us. We are in front of it, because these are really important questions, but I would like to ask you to hear at least our arguments here during the spring session, in case we can convince you that what you are saying is not the case. After all, Mr honourable Member, Mr Group leader, it is about you speaking about the budget of the local governments, and about the budgets of the local governments, it is clear, clearly visible and can be shown by numbers that the budget of 2021 provides additional opportunities for municipalities. And it is also clear, honourable Member, that you have a purely political interest in creating trenches in the municipalities. They want to create gunblocks, create artificial conflicts, rather than, honourable Member, admitting [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] That when it comes to defence, everyone must play their part in the defence: they must play their part, they must play their part. And, honourable Member, you know perfectly well that if you have a partner, you have a friend to the municipalities, that is exactly the national and civil side. You know very well that this political community is the one, this government is the one that puts the local governments, when they are in a tight spot, in a tight spot, then you help them out, you support them, and not put them in an impossible position. Honourable Congressman, You are sitting on that political side, taking on a political community with those who have bankrupted Hungarian self-governments. You wake up every morning and work to get back into political power those who are the biggest enemies of the municipalities, who, thanks to their contribution, are the situation, honourable Member, that you had to take on more than 1400 billion forints of debt from the national civilian government. Mr President, you can see from this, too, that the best partner of the municipalities is the current government. And, honourable Member, you have mentioned the issue of higher education and, surprisingly, you have done so by linking it to extraordinary measures in the legal order, while you know very well that this is not true. The debate on the transformation of higher education was held here in the Parliament, an active participant. Don't tell me that the government is thinking about transforming higher education in Hungary, using or abusing its extraordinary mandate. You were sitting here in the Parliamentary Hall, and we were personally arguing with you about the need and importance of the higher education model change. And, honourable Member, you know very well that our goal is for young Hungarians to be successful, to stand their ground in the labour market and to stand their ground in the world of science. This requires that Hungarian higher education institutions, universities and colleges are able to perform even better. We also created the necessary legislative background in the autumn session. And then, after there are other higher education institutions that themselves ask that they want to participate in the model change, the government is working with them on how this can be achieved. Honourable Congressman, If you want to operate these higher education institutions more freely and without constraints, it is wrong for you to try to prevent them from doing so and to create a political quarrel behind the issue. Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-15-28	I now give the floor to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2021-02-15-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With these words Prime Minister Viktor Orbán encouraged the Hungarians at the beginning of September 2020, when the second wave became a real threat in Hungary. At the end of September, he added that he is calmer than the spring situation, because he knows exactly what we are dealing with, that we have the means to defend ourselves, and what people want. Today Prime Minister Viktor Orbán talked about many things, but not about one thing. He did not mention at all what the state of health is now, the state of health, and how we will restart health care in Hungary after the epidemic. I'm telling you because Prime Minister didn't tell us that the corona virus epidemic has infected nearly 400,000 people in Hungary today, and we have lost 13 752 of our countrymen. It is difficult to talk about the coronal virus epidemic without feeling that there may be no more people in Hungary who have not faced in their family the fact that they have caught the coronal virus and that they may have lost one of their loved ones. Unfortunately, Hungary was hit much more by the second wave of the corona virus than by the first wave in the spring. 98 percent of all coronal viral infections have been infected since September; 95 percent of the deaths associated with the coronal virus have occurred since September. In addition, our country is not a good international comparison, even though they claim anything else. In Hungary, 3.4 percent of people infected with coronavirus die, not only the worst rate within the V4 but also at regional level, honourable Members. At the beginning, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said a lot about listening only to the epidemiological experts, and we only hear their word. This is surprising from his mouth, as the National Chief Medical Service for the Treatment of the Epidemic has been significantly modified five times since 2011. Sometimes the office was completely terminated and only a deputy State Secretary was left to carry out his duties. The NNK led by the national chief of staff has only been in operation since the end of 2018, but the transition was not completely undisturbed. In 2018, in a few months, our country had five national chief doctors. Müller Cecília finally became a national chief of staff on 1 December 2018. In addition to destroying the system of national medical services, it is not surprising that protection against the coronal virus epidemic is problematic in Hungary. It is not surprising in these circumstances that the vaccination plan will not be issued to anyone, if this list can be called a vaccination plan, details of it will only be known by leaking. And it's not surprising that you don't have any good words for the chief of staff to push over public interest data claims. But unfortunately, Prime Minister today did not mention the most important second pillar of health: there is nothing for the government to be proud of with regard to GPs. In 2010, 176 GP districts were permanently unfilled. In 2021 we reached the point that, according to the National Hospital Directorate-General's records, 482 GP areas were permanently unfilled and 163 GP practices have been vacant since last April. So we are talking about 584 GPs; nearly one million of our compatriots are either partially or completely unable to obtain basic health care in Hungary. The haste and the chaos that characterizes health, of course, is not surprising. We see that now we don't even know how many ministers are responsible for health care. Miklós Kásler, Péter Szijjártó, Sándor Pintér, Minister of Palkovics; we are beginning to see that all members of the government are responsible for health care. That is why we demand from the Hungarian Socialist Party that the problem of health will be solved, that if one of the most important tasks for the government is to get health in order, the independent Ministry of Health [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They will operate and appoint a competent minister to lead the ministry. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[13.20]]
u2021-02-15-30	Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, First of all, I wish you a better life, because I think you're struggling with some difficulties, and we hope you'll recover soon. You said that the socialists would take Hungarian health care into their own hands. If there is something to be feared by the Hungarian doctors, the Hungarian nurses, the Hungarian hospital directors and the Hungarian patients, I think it is that the Hungarian left should take health care back into his hands, because when the last time they did this, honourable Member, hospitals were shut down, 6,000 medical workers were laid off, ousted 16,000 beds, and who remained in health care and worked as a doctor or nurse, from which they took a month's wages, honourable Member. This was when you took the health care into your hands, and what you would have known would have been privatised from health care if a referendum hadn't stopped you in this process. On the other hand, we adopted an amendment here last year, a law that has introduced or introduced the largest increase in medical wages since human memory from 1 January this year in Hungary, and this continues at the beginning of next year and at the beginning of next year, so that a starting doctor can earn no less than HUF 481,000 from this year, from next year to HUF 619 thousand, and from next year at HUF 687,000 gross salary. And those who are moving towards the end of their career, have 40 years of experience, can earn no less than HUF 1 million 666 thousand from this year, and will not earn less than HUF 2 million 142 thousand next year, and will not earn less than HUF 2 million 380 thousand from the following year. This is what we have done to appreciate the work of people who defend themselves against the epidemic, especially there, in hospitals, in clinics. I don't think you can say another country in the world that would have doubled the pay of doctors in the fight against the epidemic and even made a 14+20 percent increase for nurses, and a further 30 percent increase next year will follow. That's how we value their work. And all you've done here is attack doctors again. He continued what Lajos Korózs started last year, who attacked doctors who treated patients in the hospital and accused them of sending home patients who needed treatment, and 9 out of 10 people die. And you are here attacking doctors working at the Official Medical Service, the Chief Medical Officer's Office, and you said that those who stand up to the public every day with numbers and data are trying to help people to avoid the virus as much as possible, to avoid the epidemic, who have been one of the key actors of Hungary's last year to effectively defend against the epidemic. Here in Parliament, on the first day of the spring session, on behalf of the left, you consider it most important to attack them, honourable Member. It's a shame and a shame, and you can't do that to those who are involved in the fight against the plague. As far as GPs are concerned, I do not know what kind of political sense you have, Madam honourable Member, that in the year when the financing of GPs, GPs and dental practices increases by HUF 71.5 billion, you say why the funding of GPs will not increase in that year. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You may not have been here or paid attention, but this year we will spend HUF 71.5 billion more on this, and new forms of supply will develop during the epidemic, which will manifest itself in the community of practice. We trust that this means that not only the benefits experienced so far, but even more benefits can be given to those who turn to GPs. In any case, the financing of these districts will be greatly increased. As regards the issue of effectiveness, honourable Member, it has already been raised here today, and I do not think it is possible that there will be any other issue in the course of today, that if we look at how much more people died in Hungary last year than those who died a year earlier, and we compare this with data from other countries, then we can see that there are only ten countries with better data than Hungary, where there would be less mortality than Hungarian data, but higher than we in Luxembourg, Malta, France, Portugal, Austria, Sweden, Italy, the Netherlands, England, Slovenia, Czech Republic, Lithuania, Bulgaria, Poland, Belgium and Spain. I believe that the people who have worked to prevent this epidemic and to have less impact, those people should really be thanked for their work, not accusations here in Parliament, because in many other countries, unfortunately, we can see much worse data than Hungarians. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-15-32	I now give the floor to Peter James.
u2021-02-15-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Colleagues! Hungary is in a very difficult situation. He's in a very difficult situation because more and more people are losing their livelihoods. Those who still have a job have no savings, the catering industry is on the verge of bankruptcy, health care is exhausted, and the Hungarian people are getting more and more irritated, and they are waiting for the state to help them at last in exchange for the many taxes they have paid in the past few years. And the Hungarian government announces that in these times of crisis, they will provide millions of rewards for those who you believe to be outstanding in crisis management. No, the nurses didn't get a million-dollar reward for standing up in hospitals, not even the caterers who've been trying to stay on their feet for a year without money. It was not the workers who received a reward, who paid Europe's record taxes despite the crisis. You have chosen not to reward the people here and now, not those who carry this country on your back, but themselves. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. You've got millions of rewards in these very difficult, critical times. Officially, the communication is that you have been rewarded because you have special skills that are important to the country. Tell me what these special skills are. What special skill of Szilárd Németh justified the million-dollar reward? That you can cook without fire like this in times of need? [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] Csaba Dömötör, what did you receive a million-dollar reward for? Can you lie fluently? Balázs Orbán, why did you receive a million-dollar reward? Because you can move hundreds of billions of dollars from the budget into the pockets of Fidesz foundations? Well, stop the wedding procession! In our country, lying and stealing isn't a reward, it's a punishment. Well, you don't even have the basic ability to make decisions in the crisis. They are asking for an extraordinary mandate to decide quickly, but they are launching a national consultation because they cannot decide. They can't decide whether to open the country or not, get into a coffee shop, or just get crowded on the bus, go to a restaurant, or just run around the mall. Colleagues, I will help you: you have to open up if you have to open the country gradually, because otherwise we can shut down permanently, thanks to the huge amount of money you have taken from entrepreneurs and employees, you have kept it to yourself. Lőrinc Mészáros's wealth rose from HUF 400 billion to HUF 500 billion in spite of the crisis. From what? Where did they get this money? We know where it came from. Entrepreneurs and employees. This man now has twice as much wealth as the British ruler, the queen, and he's just a court fool. [[Delight and applause from Jobbik's ranks.]] And the guy at the job doesn't get anything. You're hitting your breasts here, hitting your breasts with a 4 percent increase in the minimum wage, 4 percent with the forint weakened by 7 percent? ! Today, the minimum wage is less than a year ago. Meanwhile, Gergely Gulyás is talking about the fact that if the minimum wage increases at this rate, we will soon catch up with the Austrian standard of living. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Wow. Little money, big talk. Or do you know something about the collapse of the Austrian economy? I doubt it. There they are now giving EUR 1.5 billion to the governments in distress to start the local economy, and you are taking money from the opposition cities in order to have something to do with yachting, urinating and, of course, rewarding themselves. Colleagues, this isn't crisis management. It is not crisis management that Lajos Kósa urges Hungarian innkeepers to be patient, to calm down, Hungarians will also be hungry in March. Yeah, they'll be hungry. Many are already very hungry. And you know, hungry people can do a lot of things, the more they're hungry, the more they can do, so don't mess around, don't consult us, just pay us. Pay 80% of the labor in trouble. I want you to raise your job-seeking allowance. Make the minimum wage tax-free. Return the money from the opposition authorities and, above all, stop stealing. Stop provoking the Hungarian people, because there will be a hunger riot. Colleagues! You have to start opening gradually, you have to start gradually rebooting life, because you can't buy bread out of big talk. Return the work of the Hungarians! Give me back the people's money! Give people back their lives! You have all the financial and all the legal instruments you need to do this. If spending thousands of billions of forints and two-thirds power is not enough for you to deal with the crisis, then give us back your mandate and find another job! It's not gonna be easy, 'cause there's no need for thieves or lepers anywhere but the Fidest. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[13.30]]
u2021-02-15-34	State Secretary Balázs Orbán has the floor to answer. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, In his speech, you discussed the ability to decide; allow me to pick up the yarn you threw away there. I think that there is no passion that can put sound judgment and sound decision-making beyond anger, and that is clearly what all your speeches in this House are about; it is angry, and it follows that you have also lost your sense of judgment. Allow me to give you some examples in this context. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Whoever heard Viktor Orbán knows who lost him!]] He took the first shot and joined the left-wing alliance with a right-wing party, moreover, he did so in the unfortunate situation that the left had already taken an examination of crisis management once after the change in the system, and he failed badly, and at the moment you are supporting those who have failed permanently in Hungary with the full political weight of his entire party. Do you know what the numbers, the unemployment numbers, looked like in Hungary at the time? Unemployment was over 12 percent. Do you know the 12 percent of us talking about not just numbers, but people who were involved? Those people, the simple two-handed workers and the people you bring up in all your speeches, those people lost their jobs at the time, the simple teachers, the simple health workers, the simple two-handed workers. The crisis management that the government of which you now support the leader of that time has brought misery and collapse to the people on whose behalf you are speaking in theory at the moment. So the thing is, as István Bethlen said, they were on the right until they arrived on the far left. I congratulate you on this change. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: They were talking about you!]] The second is how he lost his judgment. The jobs need to be protected, the economy needs to be restarted theoretically, and you and I in this room agree. Nevertheless, you have not voted in favour of the law on the control of the corona virus, and as I have heard your speech today, you will not vote in favour of it. Think about how irresponsible this is, what historical irresponsibleness! [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] If you look around and see what the numbers associated with the virus look like in Europe: everywhere where there was an opening or something wrong with the defense, the third wave is already knocking on the window. [[James Peter intervenes.]] [[James Peter intervenes.]] And in this situation, you would not give the Government of Hungary the legal background that is necessary for defence (Péter James intervenes) on the basis of party policy logic. Just because you don't like something?
u2021-02-15-36	Relax, gentlemen, relax.
u2021-02-15-37	The only reason I want to endanger the lives and health of Hungarian people and their workplaces is because you feel it is in your mood to say no, and it is much easier than once to stand here and say, yes, we will give you our support and go, Hungary? [[Péter Jakab: Give the wage support, the 80% minimum!]] The other thing is, they didn't vote for an extension of the credit moratorium. How's that? Doesn't that help simple people, Mr. Group Leader? [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] Shouldn't we have voted then? Speaking of whose job it is, isn't it your job here to press the button, the button that is needed to make decisions that help these people? I think that's their job. And if you allow me to draw your attention to another maladministration related to such cognitive dissonance, you said here in your speech that people want their lives back, would you like to open up and campaign against vaccination at the same time? [[Peter James: You have a text understanding problem! Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] While everyone, even politicians, even left-wing politicians who have lost their rationality, even the ex-government himself, the Prime Minister who has already bankrupted Hungary, said that we can get through this crisis if people are vaccinated, and therefore the most important thing is that everyone should be vaccinated. [[James Peter: That's right!]] And you're gonna go to the press, you're gonna go on television, and against the vaccines tested by different authorities and medical personnel, it doesn't matter where they come from, which part of the world they come from? [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: It doesn't matter to you, not to us!]] And in the meantime, he says to his own voters, I don't know how much of them are left, but who remain, that we are the ones who support the opening in the Hungarian Parliament? Well, at the moment, you and your irresponsible speech and political statements are the biggest obstacles to the relaunch of the economy and the opening up of Hungary. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] So what I can tell you is that God saves Hungary from it. [[Peter James: You!]] I want you to be in a position of responsibility at any time. [[Public statement from Jobbik: Hungarian citizens will decide that!]] and the Hungarian people have already decided on this, and they will decide on this in 22 as well. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Well done, the reward is due! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-38	The representatives of Jobbik may have been mistaken for calling you gentlemen, but I would ask you to listen quietly to the speakers of the other side, as you have been able to do, although it has not been easy. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Dawn Juhász, representative of KDNP. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In order for the life of our country, our family, to return to normal so that we can meet our loved ones without concern, it is important that a wider range of vaccines are given. In Hungary, Sputnik is now the fourth vaccine used alongside Pfizer, Moderna and AstraZeneca. In addition, the government's policy of supporting families is of particular importance, which could not stop during the fight against the coronal virus. Since 2010, the Hungarian government has demonstrated with a number of measures that its aim is to help and support Hungarian families, making it easier to start a life, start a family and create a home. As part of the economic re-launch action plan, the home creation programme launched in January could stay with families for tens of millions of HUF in the coming period. The support announced in the family protection action plan, the support for home creation, which was announced in accordance with the emergency situation, remained. As of January 2021, families have had a number of new forms of support and a number of previously introduced grants have been extended in order to allow a wider range of families to benefit from these opportunities. In addition to home-building grants, home-refurbishment support can be requested from January 2021, which will be added to the home-refurbishing loan in February. As a result, families who do not have the self-esteem to apply for a grant can now benefit from home renovation support. According to the Renewal Loan, a state interest subsidy loan of up to HUF 6 million can be taken up by those who cannot pay the necessary renovation costs in advance. In addition, there has been an increase in the number of settlements where the village CSOK can be used, a reduction in the rate of the notary procedure for borrowing interest-supported housing loans, and the extension of the government's facility to release mortgage loans. The amount of the child-care fee is also rising, and from July the people in the family have been exempted from paying contributions other than 15 percent personal income tax. From this year on, children born before 1 July 2019 but subsequently adopted may also benefit from baby shower support and mortgage loan waivers. In supporting families, we should also remember our older compatriots, because it is thanks to our parents and grandparents that we can now be here, that we can become people who we are today. In order to keep our loved ones close to us safe, in 2021 support for multigenerational home creation will also come to the fore, which will help families who want to live together but still support each other in their own areas of life. In addition, this year the amount of pensions and pension-like benefits is increasing and the gradual retirement of the 13th month pension has begun, which will be completed in 2024. With the shadow and challenges of the Crown Virus, such effective and crucified work deserves all respect. I would like to congratulate Minister Katalin Novák and all of her colleagues for their work, which has led to the unprecedented support of the Hungarian state for family formation and childbearing in Hungary. With comprehensive national home-building support, families' lives are safer and more predictable, making it easier to start a life and start a family. We are making the lives of families and even generations safer, more livable, and more predictable, as the future of our nation is in the hands of the founders of today's family. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.40]]
u2021-02-15-40	Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2021-02-15-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The goal of the national Christian government is to make it easier to start a family, have children and raise children in Hungary. Since 2010, we have increased the amount of support for families by two and a half times, as you have mentioned, with a new home creation program to help families get home, and we have also launched the family protection action plan. In 2021 around HUF 2300 billion is available in the budget to support Hungarian families, together with the estimated extra expenditure of the home creation action plan, HUF 2600 billion will be spent for this purpose this year. This is one of the highest in Europe, representing 4.5 percent of GDP. Allow me, without the need for completeness, to list some of the important measures taken to support families in recent years. From 1 July 2021, the infant care fee, the amount of the csed, will increase from the previous 70 percent to 100 percent of gross salary. This means that mothers who have given birth receive a higher salary up to the age of six months than when they worked. The maximum amount of ged has doubled since 2010. We have introduced the family tax relief that some a million families can benefit from. In 2015, we introduced the family home creation discount, the CSOK. By the end of November 2020, 159 thousand families spent a total of HUF 505 billion. Forints 10 million receive baby shower support for young married people, and large family members can apply for car shopping support. Compared to 2010, the number of crèches in Hungary has increased by one and a half times to more than 51,000. Indeed, we have not completed this work in the crisis caused by the corona virus epidemic, as we have launched Hungary's largest home-building programme so far. This programme not only helps families, but also helps the economy, this programme helps start up the economy, helps businesses to keep jobs and create new jobs. As of 1 January 2021, the sales tax on new buildings will be reduced from 27 per cent to 5 per cent, if CSOK is used, then families will not even have to pay the remaining 5 per cent VAT. If, as of 1 January 2021, a couple or a family raising a child before having a child buys a new or used home using a CSOK, they shall be exempt entirely from the payment of a 4 per cent acquisition fee. From 1 January 2021, as you have mentioned, the state will take half the cost of renovating their existing homes from families with at least one child, up to HUF 3 million. From 1 February 2021, the renovation loan facility is available for those who do not have the power to refurbish it, and this is really up to HUF 6 million, with a maximum ten-year term and a maximum interest rate of 3 per cent, and from January 2021 the maximum amount of CSOK can be added for attic construction. These examples also show the difference between the crisis management of former left-wing governments and the crisis management of the current national Christian government, as we remember that before 2017, the socialists abolished the former home-building support system, which, by the way, carried most of the families into the foreign exchange loan trap, from which we had to rescue the families. In 2005, Ferenc Gyurcsány and the Socialists abolished the tax relief of families with one and two children, reduced the duration of the child, and we can also say in summary that the left only took away the Hungarian families before 2010 and made the life of Hungarian families more difficult with austerity. We support families, honourable Member, honourable House, we help businesses and restart the Hungarian economy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-15-42	I now give the floor to Erik Bánki, on behalf of Fidesz, as the last of the speeches. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-02-15-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The current epidemic has really shown the difference between left-wing and national crisis management strategies. The left has already failed crisis management once, because crisis management, protecting jobs, encouraging investment, raising taxes, reducing wages, taking away the 13th month's salaries for doctors, health workers and pensioners. The left-wing government imposed a tax burden of more than HUF 100 billion on businesses today, eliminating cheap, state-supported housing loans, which drove over 1.2 million Hungarian families into foreign exchange debt, the consequences of which some still moan to this day. If they ruled now, they'd bankrupt the country as much as they did then. On the other hand, the civil government launched an economic protection action plan in which Hungarian jobs were effectively protected by wage subsidies, tax reductions and a moratorium on credit repayment, and more than four and a half million people are again working in Hungary. The epidemic is still raging around the world, the third wave has started in several countries of Europe, but in addition to health protection, the re-launching of the economy has been promoted in Hungary. In the spring, the government's main task will be to restart the economy, which is why it launched the economic re-launch action plan. The Fidesz fraction provides all support for the economic re-launch action plan, the main points of which are as follows. By reducing the housing tax to 5 percent, we want at least 40,000 new apartments to be built in Hungary. The 6 million HUF discount loan for house renovations, of which 3 million HUF stays with families as a non-refundable grant. A salary support programme was launched to protect the jobs of over 100,000 people. The biggest half-century medical raiser program has been launched. The credit moratorium works, which so far has been used by one and a half million families, and has left 3000 billion forints for businesses and Hungarian families. We've started rebuilding the 13th month's pension. Young people under 25 can get their wages free of personal income tax from 2022. In fact, businesses have access to a fast loan of HUF 10 million, free of interest, rebooting loans, which help those in trouble to recover. At the same time, the left wants to force the same misguided economic policy on the government during the current coronal virus epidemic, to make proposals and recommendations here in Parliament that bring back all elements of the old left-wing crisis management. All they want to do is credit, drive domestic businesses into a debt trap, just like they did in 2009. The Hungarian economy was then set on a course that led us to the brink of bankruptcy. Despite this crisis management, we can now talk about a well-established Hungarian economy that is capable of success. From the very first moment of the crisis, the national government has supported Hungarian businesses. You did the right thing because in this extremely difficult situation, we can only succeed together. The government of the left took away the 13th month pension when our grandparents needed the support most. Their eyes didn't blink when they had to press the yes button here in this Parliament. Since Fidesz-KDNP's governance, the law guarantees that pensions retain their purchasing value, that pensioners' livelihoods are greatly supported by the reduction of the rent, and that we have provided them with a voucher and a pension premium, thanks to economic growth, as well. Despite the crisis caused by the corona virus epidemic, we will not leave them alone, one of the most important steps of the economic re-launch action plan is to rebuild the 13th month pension taken by the left, and from 2024 pensioners will receive it in full. The Gyurcsánys lived only with austerity during their government, and we try to help people, because we want those in trouble to find a partner in the government, not with aid, but with support that gives them an opportunity to preserve jobs, and we want Hungarian families to live better despite the crisis. [[13.50]] Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, sitting on the left, politics against people is a dead end. At least in times of crisis, cooperate with us to serve the country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-44	Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Schanda has the floor.
u2021-02-15-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Unfortunately, the Fidesz-KDNP government has indeed had considerable experience in crisis management, because after 2010, after taking over the responsibility of government from the left, it had to start this great task once. At the same time, the left was running a government that was irresponsible, harmful, and completely ignored the interests of the Hungarian people. By 2010, Hungary was on the verge of bankruptcy, unemployment was at the top and employment was at the lowest level. What was the left doing earlier in the context of crisis management? We know that you've scratched the families, you've scratched the businesses, you've put an unbearable burden on the workers. As a result, the national civilian government had to solve serious problems in order to strengthen the Hungarian economy and increase people's living standards. But our philosophy, our political position is completely different from that of the left: we believe in the creation of people's value and work, we want to build a work-based economy instead of humiliating aid, and instead of framing families, we have implemented a series of family-friendly measures that help Hungarian families. This policy, this philosophy, has also been successful, as the government has been able to achieve extraordinary results with the cooperation of Hungarian people, Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses over the past ten years, and has previously achieved unattainable records. In fact, the last ten years have been the most successful decade of the last hundred years: in early 2020 there were 850 thousand more people working in Hungary than in 2010 when the government changed, the employment rate rose from 54 per cent to 70 per cent, the unemployment rate fell from 12 per cent to 3.3 per cent, the budget deficit was low, and the public debt continued to decline, incomes increased and poverty fell. Honourable Congressman, As you said, last year's appearance of the corona virus was a threat to these results, and the crisis caused by the virus, but now we know that it has not been able to bring down the Hungarian economy, but it has indeed struck it. Honourable Congressman, The virus was also a threat to the workplace, so the government immediately took action here and began to defend itself. We were forced to defend ourselves, so 2020 became a year of defence. However, the economic protection action plan was successful: from December onwards, four and a half million people are working again in Hungary, as many as before the epidemic, and with the measures of the economic protection action plan we have managed to support more than 1 million 660,000 workers, while domestic unemployment is one of the lowest across Europe. Honourable Congressman, It is worth looking at the work that has been done on the left: they fight and petition against vaccines, spread false news, and they want to override health professionals, well-known scientists and professors over and over again, in fact there is not a single constructive proposal for the left. During the first wave, because of the extraordinary legal order, they didn't want to help, they didn't want to unite, but when there was no extraordinary legal order, they always found out why they couldn't be counted on. They continue to be busy producing false news and political profit. Honourable Congressman, Following the economic protection action plan, we are dealing with the economic re-launch action plan, and you have also presented your actions in detail. Allow me to add only that we support you with HUF 45 billion, for example. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] the village shops; this helps 2400 settlements. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-46	Ladies and gentlemen, As regards my previous remark, that Erik Bánki was the last post before the last agenda, it is necessary to correct the fact that he was asked and was given the opportunity to speak before the agenda by a Roma minority advocate, Félix Farkas. I give you the floor.
u2021-02-15-47	Thank you very much. Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, On January 27, 1945, the most notorious Nazi death camp, Auschwitz-Birkenau, was released. In 2005, the UN General Assembly declared 27 January a Memorial Day. At the first meeting of the National Assembly in 2021, I consider it important to remember the six million victims, including the Roma deceased. But we Roma remember not only once a year, but not only on the anniversary of the liberation of the concentration camp in Auschwitz, the Holocaust and the horrors of the Second World War demanding human lives. We Roma must remember and remind this every day so that this horror will never happen again. To this day, descendants of those who died there still carry this stamp. I cannot stress that the identity, culture and identity of my nearly one million compatriots living in the world, and that at every opportunity, we must draw the attention of my fellow human beings to the fact that no one can be harmed, spoken, humiliated, especially to be crushed, executed and put to death. Remembering is always difficult, because when we remember, we have to talk about a tragedy, and when we talk, painful memories come out. However, in the same way, the Gypsy can't forget the fact that in the 1990s skinheads traveled the country, including later better representatives. My Gypsy brothers were regularly harassed, often physically abused, just because their skin was darker. Then, during socialist government, the Hungarian Guard Movement came under the direction of Jobbik, offending all decent Hungarian people and keeping the Roma in fear. The last moment of the Hungarian Gypsy Hunt is the period of the 2008-2009 Roma Murders. The killers left behind six victims, including a five - year - old child. They are still in prison today, but the speculations are still current: who were the providers of ideas, and who were the instigators? The role of the then socialist government was to focus on the importance of anti-Semitism, racism and the fight against all kinds of exclusion and discrimination, while allowing Jobbik to march with the Hungarian Guard. The left has joined forces with Jobbik in public, and they don't care about anything but power. I am sure that you will not receive support from us, the Roma, because we all remember this period. You know, as a Roma, it is reassuring that at last in 2010, the current government, which does not assist in exclusion and racism, which, at the time of its administration, eliminated the Hungarian Guard, took over the perpetrators of the Roma murder series, and declared zero tolerance against all forms of anti-Semitism; defends its nationalities in accordance with the Fundamental Law, does not allow anyone to be expelled because of their origin, and guarantees fundamental rights without any distinction. Remembering and reminding is important in order to prevent similar horrors from happening again, so that neither the horrors of the Second World War, nor the marching of the Hungarian Guard, nor the series of Roma murders committed in the socialist era can be repeated. We don't ever want to be the victim of an extreme ideology, and we don't want to wear a black triangle anymore just because we have different skin colors. [[14.00]] Finally, allow me to express my deepest condolences to the family of Gyula Rafael, a deceased representative of the National Roma Municipality, who has been the victim of the Crown Virus. Unfortunately, more lives have been claimed by this terrible virus. But now there's hope. I hope the life-saving vaccine gets to all people in good time. I thank the Hungarian Government, the Ministry of the Interior, the operational tribe and everyone who makes sure that the crown virus is thought of as a bad memory as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. Take care of yourselves, take care of each other. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-48	I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2021-02-15-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Speaker, On January 27th, on the International Holocaust Memorial Day, we stand shocked and bow down to the memory of 6 million innocent murdered victims, including Roma victims. We remember the victims. Many people take pictures of the family album and think of the brother, parent, grandparents, children murdered at the dawn of their lives. Our job is to make sure that this horror never happens again. Never let skinheads roam the country like in the 1990s; never let what happened during socialist government happen, that the movement called the Hungarian Guard, led by Jobbik, kept our fellow Roma countrymen in fear. Not in our nightmares, what happened 13 years ago, under the Gyurcsány government, was racist attacks on our Gypsy fellow citizens and killed people out of hate because of their color. We deeply sympathize with the relatives of the victims. We must not forget that at that time Hungary, at the time of the crime, was in a position not to protect its own citizens. What must we do to ensure that this does not happen? We need to remember and act. We must never back down when protecting human lives; we must always stand by the victims; this is not a matter of majority or minority, but of human dignity. Dear Parliament, It was the Fidesz-KDNP government that eliminated uniformed crime, the Hungarian Guard ceased to exist, caught the perpetrators of the Roma murder series, and declared zero tolerance against all forms of anti-Semitism. Hungary is a safe country today, one of the safest countries in Europe. The Fidesz-KDNP government does not tolerate fear-fearing groups acting against any ethnic or cultural, social groups, and therefore the perpetrators, the disrupters, are held accountable by law. Dear Parliament, Dear Speaker, I express my condolences to the deceased representative of the National Roma Municipality, Gyula Rafael's family, who was the victim of the corona virus. The third wave, which threatens Hungary, is raging in several European countries, and we therefore recommend and ask to extend the protection measures. Please support our bill on the protection of the Crown Virus pandemic. Together, we will overcome the epidemic that threatens us, and we will return to our former lives as soon as possible. For this I wish all of us strength and health. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-50	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2021-02-15-51	Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, Dialogue; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Péter Ungár, LMP; Andrea Varga-Damm, independent; László Horváth, Fidesz; Gergely Farkas, independent; János Bencsik, independent; László Hajdu, DK; László Varju, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Carpath, Jobbik; Ádám Ander, Balázs Jobbik and Steinmetz, Jobbik. On the day before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Tamás Mellár, Dialogue; Krisztina Hohn, LMP; Anett Bősz, DK; Tamás Harangozó, MSZP; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Imre Vejkey, Imre KDNP; László Böröcz, Fidesz. He applied for the speech following the agenda tomorrow: Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Péter Ungár, LMP; Dániel Kárpát Z, Jobbik; János Stummer, Jobbik; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik.
u2021-02-15-52	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that no consensus was reached at last week's meeting of the House Committee on the proposed working schedule of the National Assembly's spring session in 2021, and therefore Parliamentary Act 13. Pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section 6 of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the working order. The proposed working schedule was available to my fellow Members on the website. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check. Result appearing on the table: 187 present, 12 away.]] The Rules of Procedure shall be decided by the Parliament within the meaning of Article 4 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. The proposed working schedule was available to my fellow Members on the website. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. (Performance check. Result appearing on the table: 187 present, 12 away. ) Thank you. Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the proposed schedule of work of the 2021 Spring Session. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The agenda was accepted by 79 percent of the Members and 148 Members, 29 against it, 10 abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the government has submitted a legislative programme for the spring session, which interested parties have been able to learn on the IT network. The State Audit Office presented its recommendation to this effect, which is also available through the IT network. Dear House, I would like to inform you that István Tiba has received a motion to suspend the immunity of a Fidesz MP 80.Bpk.1777/2020/5-II. on a private charge of defamation from the District Court in Debrecen, and a motion to suspend Parliamentary Representative, Dialogue and immunity of Szabó Timea 14.Bpk.2020/3. No. 2 of Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. He also filed a private charge of defamation from the District Court. I've issued the motions for examination to the immunity committee. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now deciding on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. The proposal put forward by the President initiates the National Assembly to act as a T/14800 on the control of the Corrovirus pandemic. In the course of the negotiation of the series of proposals, move away from the house rules in such a way that the general debate of the bill and, in the case of a summary report and submission, the debate on the summary amendment together, in a consolidated debate on tomorrow's meeting and the final vote on 22 February will take place. This proposal is addressed to T/14800/2. can also be found on the website. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need a vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to a derogation from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House has not agreed to derogate from the house rules by 134 votes in favour, 55 against and without abstention. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Shame! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We need to talk.]] Calm down. Dear House, We are now deciding on an emergency proposal. It was initiated by the author that the T/14800 on the control of the Corrovirus pandemic. The Parliament shall also discuss the number of proposals under urgent procedure at this meeting. The emergency proposal is made by T/14800/3. You can get to know him on the website. At the same time, I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain this. [[14.10]]
u2021-02-15-53	Dear House, Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules Parliamentary resolution hereinafter referred to as "the House Rule of Decision 60'. On behalf of the Government, pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Convention on the Protection of the Crown Virus pandemic, I propose T/14800. Urgent trial of bill No 1. The urgent negotiation of the bill should be adopted as soon as possible, due to the immediate implementation of government tasks in response to the consequences of the SARS-CoV-2 coronal virus pandemic causing a mass disease. I propose that it be possible to submit an amending proposal on Tuesday, 16 February 2021, pending the conclusion of the general debate; the detailed debate phase should be opened by closing the general debate on the bill; the Legislative Committee is the House Rule 46 of the Decision. After receiving the information referred to in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article, but in accordance with paragraph 46. Before the deadline laid down in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, you may evaluate the Commission's proposals for amendments closing the detailed debate. The initiative to hold an urgent hearing is in the event that Parliament does not accept the proposal to negotiate the motion referred to by way of a derogation from the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
u2021-02-15-54	Ladies and gentlemen, I now draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members present to order an urgent hearing. I'm asking you, T/14800 will be brought to an urgent trial. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House has taken the proposal to the urgent hearing by 134 votes to 48, with no abstentions. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. I would like to inform you that P/14918 on the 30th anniversary of the formation of the Visegrád Group A proposal to amend Policy Declaration No 1 to be submitted within three hours of the adoption of the agenda, i.e. 17 hours and 12 minutes. Dear House, The Christian Democratic People's Party and the Jobbik Movement for Hungary have become the same number of members, and on 8 June 2020 the notaries decided on the order of the speeches. Decision No 17/B. Under paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article, the order of the speeches varies from one ordinary session to the first floor of the group entitled to speak, and the other group is moved one way back. In view of the fact that the number of political groups still exists, the Jobbik Group is ahead of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party in order to address interpellation, oral and immediate questions in the 2021 Spring Session. Dear House, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of proposals. I ask the Honourable National Assembly to ask the designated Cultural Committee to report to the President of the Hungarian Academy of Arts on the title B/13101 submitted to the National Assembly of Hungary on 2018-2019. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the Committee to take its decision by 131 votes in favour, 60 against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Judicial Committee to submit the Parliamentary Report on the operation of the Committee of National Remembrance in 2019, B/14315. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament also asked the committee to take a decision on the report by 132 votes in favour, 60 against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, H/13533. on the adoption of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's business report and report for the year 2019. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/13533. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The proposal for a resolution was adopted by 129 votes to 61, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:15 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. [[Several Members are leaving the meeting room. It's a short break.]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2021-02-15-55	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Welcome to my fellow Members. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. [[It's ringing.]] After my fellow Members took their seats [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] We continue our work with interpellations. I urge my fellow Members to take their seats. (Zoltán Balczó intervenes. ) Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the case of interpellets which, in accordance with our adopted agenda, the Member did not accept the response to the interpellation, the votes on acceptance of the reply will take place in the context of today's decisions. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. What about the forgotten one million? It's an address. In reply to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed László Palkovics, Minister for Innovation and Technology, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Mr János Schanda responds to the interpellation. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-02-15-56	Mr President, Dear House, Before I begin on the substance of what I have to say, I must make a genre comment: I consider it a blood Bolshevik-style step that the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP Parliamentary majority is no longer willing to do so, and is also trying to protect itself from having to listen to opposition interpellations and amend the rules of the game agreed in other better places so that the vote on interpellation will be held sometime in the dark and at night. It's an amazing Bolshevik tempo. He'll tell you a lot more about the government...
u2021-02-15-57	Congressman...
u2021-02-15-58	...as I could tell you about you in this situation.
u2021-02-15-59	Congressman, please tell us your interpellation. Thank you.
u2021-02-15-60	Since 2010, in essence, in every year before the election, this government has been presenting a plan for a panel program of some kind, typically in the year before the elections, about how there will be a panel program that we don't know how to block, and then the parliamentary elections will go down and forget these ideas of the government. [[14.20]] Since we are now a long year ahead of the elections, I would like to capitulate the government to revive this recipe, start campaigning with the panel program, but finally do something about it. The situation in Hungary is that housing cataclysm is under way, and while housing prices and rent prices have been brutally exploded in the last ten years, this government has done nothing. He often didn't understand the words of modern times, because, let's say, he couldn't handle an Airbnb problem or Uber problem, he simply couldn't understand the genre of community services. We are now at a lucky moment when, fortunately, due to an emergency caused by a very unfortunate coronal virus, the rent prices have been frozen, even slightly reduced, which have experienced a continuous explosion. At this moment of grace, you can transfer a rental or a panel program, if there's any determination in the government. At the same time, we see that while we have no reason to drive away the discounts on the CHOK, attic constructions, we are very pleased that many of us are able to make use of them, it is typically said that the better earners, the richer, are able to realise them, showing the full amount of benefits, while not only has this government forgotten about our fellow countrymen living in over a million panels in the last decade, but for them, for a typical living situation, let us say, for a boiler change, this has also stopped the support for housing savings that this family friend could not even call a cabinet. Our question is therefore clear: successful economic models are available, the cost of saving energy can be the repayment that the citizen puts in paper only, the resident in the various window replacements, insulation replacements, deep renovation methods, and the Hungarian budget would be able to finance the investment cost. This model has worked in many successful countries. Has the Government of Hungary opened its doors to more than one million of our countrymen living in the millions of sectors of concern, to whom this means substantial help and who have been forgotten? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-02-15-61	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Tamás Schanda responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-62	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me not to comment on your opinion on the house, but may I point out that, on the one hand, there is an epidemic, which is important for measures and protection measures, and, on the other hand, it is strange to hear from your mouth that Bolsheviks are, when it is precisely your left-wing allies who are worth remembering in a few words when it comes to home-building renovations. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Count the KISS secretaries at your house!]] After all, you want to help those people back into power, those left-wingers who are drifting left-wing Jobbik want to help them back into power, who, during their scandalous government, have taken away all the opportunities and all the support from the Hungarian families. [[Gergely Arató: The building was stopped by the Orbán government!]] That's what I'd do right now. Left-wing governments abolished the home creation programme and pushed Hungarian families into foreign exchange loans. Whatever the left-wing representatives shouted at the Parliament's meeting, they did this: they stopped the support programme and pushed Hungarian families into foreign exchange loans, they dismantled the home creation programme, and they did not take into account the risks of foreign exchange lending. As a consequence, it is worth saying a sentence that between 2002 and 2010, the amount of retail foreign exchange loans increased 140-fold. Honourable Member, you want to bring them back into power, who did this to the Hungarian families. On the other hand, the civil national government is taking real measures to help Hungarian families access to housing and in the area of home renovations. Honourable Congressman, You may not be interested in the facts, but the fact remains that in 2020 we launched Hungary's largest home creation programme. As of 1 January this year, the state will take over half the costs of renovating their existing homes from families with at least one child, up to HUF 3 million. Mr President, this support, this opportunity, is exactly what you are referring to, these renovations, these opportunities that enable Hungarian families to renovate their homes and renovate their homes. In addition, this is supported and supported by a maximum of HUF 6 million with a maximum ten-year term and a 3-percent interest rate. Honourable Congressman, It also shows that there are government programs that you are proposing. But, honourable Member, you yourself have expressed a positive opinion on the family home-building discount, which we have extended further from the beginning of the year, and let me also draw your attention to the fact that, although I know the facts will not confuse you, at the end of last year, Parliament accepted the amendment of the energy efficiency legislation, which is a major milestone and, in the long term, strategic importance of establishing an energy efficiency obligation system. This support system, this new system, will finance cost-effective energy efficiency solutions and investments for the Hungarian population in the coming years by involving market players. Mr President, you have not supported these measures, but we are helping the Hungarian families. Thank you for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-15-63	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I ask the congressman, he accepts the answer. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-64	Mr President, Dear House, There's nothing to accept. Secretary of State, that answer was so unprofessional, as if, let's say, Szilárd Németh had pointed the same questions at me. The thing is, if you count how many former KIS Secretarys of Practice are sitting in the top management of the various factions and how many soldiers remain from the previous system, you will win high, Mr. Secretary of State. What are you talking about? I understand you don't understand the typical problems of people living in the flats, but do you really believe in Rose Hill that these people have 2-3 million in the credenza that they're going to throw in for a renovation, and you're going to refund half of it? These people can be helped in substance on a systemic basis by saving their energy as a payment for investments, but they need to be included in the State. I understand that your allies, German car manufacturers and banks don't take this kindly to it, but that doesn't mean that it could be done for the Hungarian families, not as you did by assisting in over 13,000 evictions. That is why I can say that Hungary's less family-friendly government, which treats people as barcodes, was very rarely Hungary. It's all shame and shame! [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-02-15-65	I'm waiting for your answer, Congressman. That means Congressman didn't accept the answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, decisions will be taken on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the finance minister: why do millionaire pensioners also receive an additional one-week allowance? Why not make the 13th month pension equal? It's an address. By replying to the interpellation, Prime Minister appointed a minister without a wallet for families with responsibility and competence according to the subject. Parliamentary Secretary Róbert Zsigó responds to the interpellation at the request of the Minister. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-02-15-66	Thank you very much. Dear House, Fellow Members! At the end of last year, there was a social debate in the country that, in relation to the return of the so-called 13th month pension, this division could be made more fairer than the current ideas. [[Németh Szilárd István: Says the one who took it!]] There were organisations that said that there would be no such benefit over a certain amount, some said that it would be best to have it in the same amount for all concerned, nearly 2.6 million people in this case. I myself asked the competent wallet with a written question, and Mr. State Secretary said in his reply what we all know is that the Hungarian pension system is based on social security and insurance. We know this well, the old definition of this meant a pay-as-you-go system, although it seems more and more like a budget line and has little to do with the parameters laid down decades ago in the so-called bismarcki system. That's one thing. Secondly, we have repeatedly proposed that the 53rd week pension be paid at the same amount. Think, fellow Members, that those who have a lower pension will receive fewer benefits, and who have a rather high pension, say, one million, one million, one million, maybe two million forints, and a lot more in scale. [[14.30]] At a pension of HUF 100,000, this allowance will be HUF 25,000 per week, and at a pension of HUF 1 million, I am talking about a monthly pension of HUF 250,000. I'm not even talking about higher pensions. I would also like to reiterate my written question here in the form of an interpellation that, on the one hand, planned to provide the same amount of pension to the 2,5-2,6 million pensioners concerned, and, on the other hand, I would like to take the opportunity to be told that, almost three years ago, the Constitutional Court issued a resolution stating that the Parliament and the government would have very serious tasks in the matter of the invalid. Slowly, as I mentioned, the publication of the resolution is nearing three years, and two years ago, by 31 March, it gave Parliament a deadline for the adoption of new legislation. We also had a motion, a proposal for a parliamentary decision, a bill, and we would like to know where the compensation for our disabled fellow citizens is, and we would like to know that there will be a pension correction programme to catch up on the low pensions. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-15-67	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Robert Zsigó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-02-15-68	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is also apparent from your speech that you still believe that people do not remember that when you are in opposition, you promise to heat and wood, and when you are on the government, you do exactly the opposite of what you have promised. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the left-wing government submitted to Parliament on 13 March 2009 a law on the taking of 13 months' pensions. In the justification of the bill, the then government stated that the 13th month pension could not be maintained. Dear Congressman Korózs! You were State Secretary of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Labour from May 2008 until March 2010. Interestingly, you, Member, did not at that time worry about the livelihood of pensioners, did not call on the government to take away the 13th month pension, did not submit an amendment so that this would not happen, but voted to take away the 13th month pension from the elderly who had built this country with a life's work. So you took the 13th month pension from 2.4 million pensioners in 2009. I would also like to remind you that between 2006 and 2010, the real value of pensions was reduced by more than 4 percent, so in that period pensioners were taken away from everything they could. Moreover, the cost of living under left-wing governments has increased significantly. Before 2010, electricity was doubled, and the price of residential natural gas was tripled, and the price of gas and electricity was the most expensive for Hungarian families in the European Union compared to salaries. This particularly affected pensioners, just as it did not help them that the drugs were also brutally expensive. Honourable Congressman, In contrast, in 2010, we concluded an agreement with the pensioners. As a result, we agreed that as long as there is a national government in Hungary, the value of their pension will remain in value as a buyer, it will not decrease. Over the past few years, we have proven that we are keeping our word and even giving back the 13th month's pension, because this Friday, on 12 February, the gradual retirement of the 13th month's pension began, the retirement of the pension that you took from the pensioners. In February, pensioners receive a weekly amount of this benefit as an additional benefit, affecting 2.1 million old-age pensioners and over 400 thousand pension-like contributions. In addition, the purchasing value of pensions has increased by more than 10 percent since 2010, and pensioners have received an extra payment of HUF 220 billion in the last four years; for example, pensioners have benefited from economic success in the form of a pension premium, but they have also received a voucher and a certificate. More than 299 thousand women retired after 40 years of entitlement, and several reductions also helped the elderly in their daily lives. It also shows that you have constantly taken away from people, from pensioners, on the other hand, we value older people, we do not lose them in times of crisis, but we give them back the 13th month's pension that you have taken away, and this will also help the economy restart. Therefore, I ask you to accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-69	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-70	I would like to say right from the beginning that I do not accept that answer. Mr Secretary of State did not answer such a fundamental question that people with low pensions would have some kind of catch-up programme, pension correction programme. I asked where the matter of indemnification of invalids, preparation and submission of legislation to the National Assembly was going. And the third thing I would like to mention: look, at the time when you guys switched to this inflation-following pension raising technique, I told you then, and I've been saying it ever since, it's a scam of the century. The real position of small pensioners has deteriorated rapidly over the last ten years. Pensioners receiving an average pension have stagnated in this respect in existential terms and only those with high pensions have improved their situation in recent years. I could also say that, unfortunately, you will keep your word, this wrong decision. Thank you.
u2021-02-15-71	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the response to the interpellation. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda today. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. We would like a clear answer after all this talk: can we choose between vaccines or not? It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, Prime Minister Miklós Kásler, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-02-15-72	Thank you very much. Dear House, I am a little sorry that Prime Minister does not respond personally to this interpellation, even if it is not his custom anyway, because I would like to hear a significant amount of explanations for his statements. I think it would have been expected that he would explain his own words himself. We are saddened to see that Viktor Orbán and his government can no longer answer the simplest possible questions that fundamentally determine the lives of Hungarian citizens. We understand, of course, that government inertia, confusion, panic control are all over the place, but there are some questions that people rightly expect to answer. For example, how can citizens choose between vaccines, decide whether to be vaccinated with a vaccine approved by the European Union Agency, or not to choose, and have to accept the Russian and Chinese vaccine. What government statements were there in this case? Last November, the Prime Minister said that it would be possible to choose freely. Then, in December, the National Chief of Staff said that there was no free choice. After that, several members of the government said that there would be freedom to choose. Then Minister Miklós Kásler said that there is no free choice between vaccines. After that, Müller Cecília said that only the doctor's recommendation would allow you to choose between vaccines, so people themselves can't choose. After that, the Prime Minister said that we wouldn't even know what kind of vaccine we're getting, but only at the fire point, and anyone who doesn't want it there will stand at the end of the line. Then the Secretary-General's Ministry of State denied it that day and said that it was not so, because we will find out what kind of vaccine we will receive. After that, the chief of staff said another version today. The question is very simple: don't you know what you're doing? We understand that there is no vaccination plan, just a draft, we understand that they are putting the older people out, but also the younger ones, there are those who are offered a Russian vaccine at the hospital, and there is absolutely no clarity as to who is when, how it will take place. [[14.40]] But it's a simple question, and in this free choice of vaccine, the government behaves like an iron-nosed midwife in a magnetic storm: they talk nonsense, you don't know what they represent. And do you know why this is important? Because it undermines the confidence in vaccination, which is why vaccination has been reduced in the last month, not by accident: it is not possible to trust a government that cannot answer a simple question. So I'm going to ask you this simple question, Mr. Secretary of State, slowly and slowly, and I'm going to ask you to give me the bullshit, just a yes or a no. Can citizens decide what vaccinations they accept and guarantee that they will not be disadvantaged? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell. Bence of Turdai applauds.]]
u2021-02-15-73	Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-74	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This is not the first time you've been using Parliament's plenum to try to create confusion or uncertainty about the coronal virus epidemic. We can remember that a few weeks ago, you came into Parliament and told us that the government, for example, does not publish the numbers related to education, while, for example, that morning at the official press conference on the Crown Virus. [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] These are the numbers we published. Then you came here a few hours later and told me these numbers were hidden by the government. But we can also remember when you said on ATV that the dead are low, that unfortunately, the country is not in bad shape in this issue. It shows that, in fact, [[Gergely Harvester: Yes or no? It's a simple question. The president's ringing the bell.]] what the Democratic Coalition is rooting for, so that the number of victims of the Crown Virus in Hungary is as low or as high as possible. But what we have also seen in the defence, honourable Member, is that when medical students and volunteers started to help in testing, whether in social institutions or in educational institutions, you also produced false news, because you also said that there was not enough equipment, that you were not prepared enough, that you are almost similar to what you are always saying here in Parliament, which, in the end, a medical student who is being tested disproved that what you have said was not true in letters or words. And all you do about vaccines is collect signatures against vaccines, try to excite fear in people, try to arouse uncertainty about the vaccine in people, and we all know that this epidemic will end when a sufficient number of people are vaccinated and the epidemic can be stopped. I can't do this without it. When you do things here in Parliament, in the press, on Facebook and everywhere else to dissuade people from giving the vaccine, giving the vaccine, you risk people's lives, and that's not enough for you to use any means to gain the power you're hoping for. In a foreign newspaper, one of their backups said that the government is weakening by prolonging the epidemic and causing as many casualties as possible. Honourable Congressman, It is amazing, amazing and unacceptable that you are campaigning for Hungarian authorities and Hungarian people in Hungary not to decide how many people and when to inoculate in Hungary. You say that it is only in Brussels that it is possible to decide when and how many vaccines are coming to Hungary, and that all the permissions of the Hungarian pharmaceutical authority would be abolished, they would act as if this authority did not exist, and they would say that the Hungarian pharmaceutical authority should not authorise any vaccine in Hungary. However, you can see, honourable Member, how the European acquisition of vaccine has failed. While more than 11 per cent of the population of the United States has been vaccinated, the population of Israel is above 44 per cent, in the United Kingdom more than 21 per cent, in Serbia there is 11 per cent, in Serbia there is almost 11.5 per cent, whereas in the European Union there is only 3 per cent. It is therefore apparent that the European Union has failed in the purchase of vaccines. Hungary is therefore looking for other ways to save as many Hungarian lives as possible. And, of course, everyone has double freedom and double choice, because registration, who is applying, will not be visited by healthcare workers who do not apply. Here's your first choice, and the second is when the vaccine is given. At the current stage, we can inform them when they are notified by telephone, when they are invited, what kind of vaccine is available, so that each person can decide whether to leave or refuse. But at the later stage, when we hope that there will be a mass of vaccines, at the latest everyone at the vaccination site will be able to decide: [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Asking for or not asking for that vaccine, honourable Member. Everyone's choice has been granted, but it is you who are also pursuing an extremely irresponsible policy regarding vaccinations. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-75	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask the congressman if he'll take the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-76	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I was hoping that if I asked you a simple question, I would be able to get a simple answer. Instead, you talked about everything, about yourself, the least. That is the case, and I am obliged to respond to that because you are not aware of the regulations of your own government. It is not the opposition, but you who ignore the Hungarian pharmaceutical agency. You're the ones who put pressure on the drug agency about the Russian vaccine, and you're the ones who avoided this drug agency about the Chinese vaccine. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] That vaccine was not authorized by the Hungarian pharmaceutical agency on the basis of investigations, but by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who saw it being used somewhere. We demand that you give us clear information because we want to increase confidence in vaccination. Because they can bring in the Chinese vaccine at a price to make a lot of money on it, but if people refuse to give it to themselves, it won't matter much. I would like to add that from the European Union [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] There were nearly 600,000 doses of vaccine and less than 10,000 from the Russians. I cannot accept that answer, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-02-15-77	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, So Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda today. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, a representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance: "Does all life really matter to you, or is it only about draining public money? It's an address. Prime Minister László Palkovics, who is responsible for innovation and technology, has been asked to answer the interpellation. At the request of Minister Tamás János Schanda, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-02-15-78	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, I don't know if the Ministry of Innovation and Technology is responsible for human lives or public funds, but that's gonna come out. Unfortunately, on the first day of the spring session, we must once again state that the governing parties have heard nothing in recent months from people's voices, essentially from their cry for help. I would also like to mention in particular the catalysmic entrepreneur who wanted to borrow two million forints for the expansion of his business, to which he would have expected, is 1.3 million forints monthly turnover, which is completely absurd. And I would also like to quote the innkeeper who hasn't received the promised wage payment to this day, as I would like to quote, who had a hard time receiving the grant, but didn't see a penny of it, since the NAV immediately took the amount from his account. You don't govern and leave crowds on the side of the road. But apparently, it's more important for you to take public money. So far it has been tourism that has been pumped with EU money and domestic state resources, only before it has completely rearranged ownership; now education has become new tourism. After all, while healthcare is struggling with the lack of money, people are not getting their vaccinations at an appropriate rate, you have even used the basic law amendment to stuff trust funds, i.e. Fidesz trustees, with hundreds of billions, castles, sailboats and other goods, out of taxpayers' money. And this is where some of the EU's resources for the recovery of the economy would be channeled. Of course, only after he was reorganized in this sphere as well. And what a lie it is when they claim that it would be about the major development of higher education: why don't the foundations maintain universities, why does the state maintain the institutions with the norm in the future with taxpayers' money as it has done so far? In the last ten years, all state and government tools would have been available to develop Hungarian higher education in substance. And what was it for? To order the institutions under government with the Chancellors. How does the change of ownership now solve the quality problems of higher education? And with the wealth, why doesn't responsibility go hand in hand? The debt settlement of the University of Miskolc is also a good example of how you imagine the operation of privatized universities. In the middle of the crisis, funds for crisis management in principle add HUF 435 million to the consolidation of the debts of the University of Trust Foundations. So you're privateizing the wealth, but you're socializing the costs. [[14.50]] And if their goal is not simply to withdraw funds, then the question arises why the funds are being allocated to trust funds when, by the way, HUF 1500 billion will be spent on recapitalisation of higher education from EU funds; of course, from the recovery fund that has been continually vetoed. So this is what you think is crisis management? And I'm not talking about the Fidesz crisis, I'm talking about the people who lost their jobs, their businesses. My question is that they will continue this policy for the next year.
u2021-02-15-79	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-80	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The tasks and powers of the ITM shall be governed by the Government Statute. My job is determined by the Minister, and whatever questions you ask or do not understand our intentions, the strategies and legislative proposals that we are making, it is always an honor for me to answer you. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to say that when you are attacking the government's crisis management and expressing disapproval, it is somewhat false. You have also been to the Communist successor party, the party that has failed crisis management, the total mismanagement of the 2008 crisis. That period was also about austerity, the abuse of families and Hungarian businesses, the suppression of the lives of Hungarian workers with new burdens. But, honourable Member, that is what you want and are proposing right now. And the party where you have parachuted has now lost a little face, and in the arms of Ferenc Gyurcsány, you are looking for opportunities for political survival, so that you may still have one or two seats. We also view these criticisms and these proposals as unreliable. [[Márta Demeter: It's been two minutes!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Early on, the Hungarian government started to defend against the virus, and we also allocated significant resources to protect jobs, as jobs must be protected and new jobs created. This is what the economic defense plan was about, and this defense, contrary to your claim, was clearly successful, as the number of people employed again exceeds 4.5 million people, i.e. before the virus exploded. Unemployment is one of the lowest in Europe. This shows that government measures have been targeted and have indeed been used. However, the economic protection action plan is closed and the economic re-launch action plan is launched. You may have heard about the exact elements of this, Madam honourable Member, on this day, but allow me to draw your attention to the fact that we have reduced the tax on housing to 5 per cent; the aim is to build some 40,000 apartments per year. We give families a discount loan of HUF 6 million for the renovation of the apartments, of which HUF 3 million is non-refundable. This is particularly important because left-wing governments have abolished the support for home creation and pushed Hungarian families into foreign exchange loans. We support small and medium-sized enterprises with a new credit facility; we provide wage support to companies in difficulty; a credit moratorium; a wage increase for doctors, under 25; and a retirement of the 13th month pension, which was taken away by your former party from Hungarian pensioners, our senior countrymen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As far as higher education institutions are concerned, the government is clearly counting on Hungarian universities and higher education institutions as central players in economic development and innovation and wants to create a more flexible, predictable and freer operating environment for them. And indeed, as you said, universities will clearly be the winners of the European Union's recovery fund. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-15-81	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-82	I don't accept it, Mr. President. Secretary of State, we would have heard such a political analysis from you; I understand why you were not on that course, because it is not in a thank-you relationship with reality. However, I would like to remind you that it is not only the horse's foot that hangs out, but the whole herd now, because instead of crisis management, you are handing out amazing money to ZalaZone Zrt. for example, for the implementation of the Zalaegerszeg shooting armor factory, 29 billion people's money just so far. If this was given to local SMEs, 5600 jobs could have been created from this money with an average annual salary instead of 500. Similarly, Corvinus International Investment Ltd. It received HUF 198 billion to basically replace the loan that was received for the purchase of Budapest Bank, the average annual earnings of 38 thousand people, as the government institution dealing with the care of state leaders could have created HUF 22 billion and the average earnings of 4200 people, thus creating a total of 50,000 jobs. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You didn't do that. You're handing it out to government buddies.
u2021-02-15-83	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, decisions will be taken today. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Why does the government not support people and small entrepreneurs in the crisis? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-02-15-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Last year, the Orbán government took out a loan of HUF 6530 billion, but almost nothing leaked to the victims of the crisis, including entrepreneurs and employees working in catering and tourism. The government should not refer billions to its friends as crisis management, but rather support those affected by the crisis, as businesses in the sectors affected by the crisis have been destroyed, many of the people who lost their jobs are unable to buy food, pay rent or be completely indebted. Entrepreneurs on the brink of bankruptcy would open up in despair despite the legal ban, but the Orbán government is not touched by anything, and they still do not provide any meaningful assistance. We call on the government to transfer at least the wage subsidies already granted to entrepreneurs and workers without delay, because many have not even received the wage support in November. We demand that applications be reopened, administration made easier, and wage support increased to an amazingly low rate of 50% to at least 80-90 percent. The state will pay the wage subsidies not in hindsight and especially not late to the entrepreneurs, but in advance! During the current crisis, it is especially true that twice, who gives quickly, the Orbán government is sending away only a small amount of support late. As a result, the many ruined businesses, which would no longer benefit from a decent wage support system, have many people without jobs and income, since the unemployment benefit is only a quarter of those who are supposed to be entitled to it. In the current situation, only a slightly compassionate and caring government would continue to delay the introduction of basic crisis income. The basic monthly crisis management income of HUF 100,000 last May to the end of the year, according to the Dialogue calculations, would have cost some HUF 1200 billion. The UN proposed to Hungary an emergency income of approximately HUF 98 980 at the current rate of $334.48 per month. The United Nations has calculated almost as much budget expenditure as the Dialogue, from May to December about HUF 4.4 billion, or HUF 1300 billion. It is against this 1200-1300 billion that last year the Orbán government took out a loan of HUF 6530 billion, more than five times the amount required for the basic crisis income. Secretary of State, after all this, when will the government introduce the basic income for crisis management, even as part of the economic re-launch package? I look forward to your reply.
u2021-02-15-85	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-86	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You repeatedly demonstrate that all you can think about is austerity, tax increases and the debt of the country, because what you keep suggesting, the so-called basic income, is that you can get money without work, and not even a little. [[15.00]] This solution is not an incentive to work, but it can also keep those affected away from the labour market on a permanent basis. And I'd pay this out of taxes, taxes, and credit, according to old left-wing tradition. Honourable Congressman, You're not really hiding it. In fact, the Christmas Party wants nothing more than austerity and tax increases. The three-key tax system already appears in Gergely Christmas's election program, where the tax rate would be doubled from twice the average salary to 30%, i.e. double the tax rate. According to the proposal of the 18th of Christmas, the corporate tax rate should be more than doubled. So a tax increase for companies, a tax increase for individuals, a tax increase for families, a tax increase for everyone, this is your political program. A 2019 amendment proposed by the party of Christmas revealed that the left wanted to brutally increase corporate tax and make Hungarian businesses impossible. No less than 480 billion HUF would be taken from Hungarian companies as proposed. But your programme, the Christmas programme, also includes a wide-ranging carbon tax, which would brutally increase the cost of overhead, heating, transport and transportation of goods. This means that hundreds of billions of forints would be taken from Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses. Honourable Congressman, What is new about this proposal from you? We are used to this left-wing recipe: this is exactly how the global economic crisis was dealt with by the left that you are part of. Instead of looking for a solution, they would have supported Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses, instead they were talking about a austerity tax increase. They wanted to give help, not work for people, and instead of job creation, jobs were removed. And yet, those who were able to work were taxed to death. That's what they want again, that's what your proposals are all about over and over again. Honourable Congressman, Let me also inform you that, through the various wage subsidies, the government has so far reached almost 67 thousand businesses. It supported the protection and creation of 400 000 jobs only with wage support. In addition, more than 100,000 employees were required to support tourism services in the sector. We have accelerated the payment of subsidies, and the percentage of payments has already reached 98 percent, which means that these companies have already had virtually full access to state aid, thanks to the measures of the economic protection action plan, which is also due to the fact that the number of employees in Hungary has already been mentioned here in Parliament today. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] again, it exceeds four and a half million, and the unemployment rate is one of the lowest in Europe. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-15-87	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-88	The Fidesz government has been making cuts and tax increases over the past few months. The biggest victims of austerity are municipalities and through this people. The supply of millions, the living conditions of millions, was damaged by very harsh restrictions on municipalities. Again, the tax increase is your policy, since the utility tax has been tripled, the solidarity tax has been quadrupled, and hundreds of billions of items have been pulled out of the pockets of the various socio-economic players. And of course, there would be a need for a tax increase, just not here, but in the oligarchs and the multi-company, the giant companies for whom you have made a tax haven. If giant companies were to pay taxes, there would be money for people's unemployment benefits, or money to patch the holes in the social security system. And just how successful your wage support system was: only 60,000 out of 140,000 jobs remained in the catering business. More than half of it is lost, so so much for your huge success. Are you going to have a crisis management basic income or not? 'Cause he didn't answer that.
u2021-02-15-89	Thank you. So, honourable Parliament, if I have understood correctly, the Member did not accept the answer of the Secretary of State. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda today. Dear Parliament, Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. Who is banked with Czeglédy? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-02-15-90	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Left and News Channels in Hungary and abroad are fond of accusing the government of corruption and misuse of EU money. The guts of hatred and envy are old communist tempos. They do this as loudly and spectacularly as possible, perhaps because Hungarians may forget who they really are who pushed money out of this country with wheelbarrows and to whom the biggest corruption cases and frauds are linked. Let us remember the case of subway 4, the biggest misuse of EU money ever. But it seems that this custom remained in the opposition on the left. The name of his lawyer, Csaba Czeglédy, who has been accused of tax evasion by Ferenc Gyurcsány, is known throughout the country, with whom left-wing municipalities conclude contracts of the magnitude of millions even though his membership has been suspended by the Bar Association. Last month, my colleague Gyula Budai filed a report on budget fraud at the Central Investigator's Attorney General's Office, in which Human Operator Zrt., linked to Czeglédy, alongside Gyurcsány's family company, was involved. is also involved. Altus Portfolió Kft., the CEO of which Klára Dobrev, granted four loans of nearly HUF 300 million to Human Operator Zrt. between 2016 and 17 years. In 2017, the financial supervision of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank concluded that Altus Portfolio Kft. This has been unlawfully done because it does not have authorisation to do so. These contracts were signed by Klára Dobrev and Csaba Czeglédy, who had been appointed a Member of the European Parliament in the meantime, and accused of fiscal fraud. But illegal financing is not enough, it is likely that the Gyurcsányek used EU funds to do this. At the same time as the loans were paid out by Altus Bézik Zrt. The European Union's funding amounted to HUF 1.5 billion in the consortium. According to statements published in the meantime, not only Csaba Czeglédy, but also other individuals and the Democratic Coalition itself received the loan at the same time. I believe that, in the interests of the cleanliness of public life, everyone has the right to know how much money has been unlawfully transferred to Csaba Czeglédy and other persons linked to the left. On that basis, I ask Mr. Secretary of State, who does Czeglédy bank with? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-15-91	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Pál Völner, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, As you mentioned earlier, the Vas County Bar Association suspended Csaba Czeglédy's membership of the Bar. This is possible if the person exercising the activity of a lawyer is subject to criminal proceedings for intentional criminal offences. We know this is the 6.3 billion-dollar budget fraud that you're subject to. I would remind you that in 2001 Czeglédy was suspended for the first time by the Szombathely City Court for a period of two years for tax fraud, forgery of private documents, for violation of accounting discipline and for other crimes, which, in the second instance, was aggravated by the Veszprém County Court for a period of one year to four months. Csaba Czeglédy's new criminal trial may continue in March, but the procedure is still stalling. Last year's procedure was interrupted for months by the fact that the court was forced to rule out one of the lawyers because they found a conflict of interest, and because Czeglédy contested the exclusion of the lawyer, the appeal prevented the prosecution from proceeding. Czeglédy was, by the way, only a suspect when another scandal occurred: DK put him on the list of candidates for MEPs in 2019 and thus obtained immunity. This also proves that left-wing politicians trick with legislation, no matter whether it's a loan, it's immunity, it's tax evasion. [[15.10]] The smooth functioning of justice and the inevitability of criminal liability are the basis for the functioning of the rule of law. In order to ensure this, it was justified in 2019 to establish a regime whereby criminal proceedings in which the prosecution took place prior to the registration of the candidate for representative or for which the candidate for representative is subject to a compulsory measure of the right of a judge concerning personal leave should not constitute an obstacle to the conduct of criminal proceedings and subsequently to the functioning of the judiciary, since these criminal proceedings are neither linked nor linked to the quality of the candidate representing him. So, if you try to use one of these in this procedure in the 2022 elections, you're not gonna make it. Dear House, Left-wing and DK have been apologizing and defending this lawyer since then, practically stuffed with money at XI. district municipality, VII. district government, we know these cases. In fact, the question is why Ferenc Gyurcsány and his party are so protective of Csaba Czeglédy and why they fund it. What happened to the more than 6 billion forints that disappeared from the budget, since the victims were not reimbursed or reimbursed to the state. Why have there been tens of millions of friendly loan agreements between the Czeglédys and the Gyurcsány companies, whose origin is also unclear, and why was it necessary? It is also possible that illegal financial movements may have been backed up by political support. The National Bank stated that this activity was illegal. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It can be seen from these cases that the Balliberal side continued in the same place where it left off in 2010, they learned nothing, they forgot nothing, so they only fill their own pockets of corruption money while harming taxpayers, unsuspecting people. The Gyurcsánys have never done anything for the Hungarian people, they just hijacked and squeezed me. The insistence of the left to Csaba Czeglédy reminds us of the old proverb, saying that he would know a bird from his pen, a man from his friend, and a party from his lawyer. Finally, I would like to thank you for all the speeches that encourage the authorities to investigate such cases and crimes as thoroughly as possible. Thank you for your attention and for your acceptance of the answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-93	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. [[For signal:]] You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I accept the answer, although I think that as many Hungarian citizens, Csaba Czeglédy is unable to accept the kind of activity that Csaba is carrying on. Perhaps the discreet problem of the Hungarian left is why it is led by a billionaire who has become rich under suspicious circumstances, but that should be their problem. But what you can see is that the left is messing with everyone he knows, unlike his own house, he's not tidying up, and you can see that this case is very unpleasant for them. This is why both Gyula Budai and Tamás Deutsch have filed lawsuits against MEPs who have brought this matter to the public. I wish they hadn't; because we are glad that they did, because the court has stated that it is factual that the conclusion that from the EU funds that the Gyurcsány family company has received is a sum of money for Human Operator Zrt. We're still waiting, and we're wondering how this case is going to end. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-95	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2021-02-15-96	Dear Minister, Oh, I'm sorry, future Minister, in case the rumors are true. So, Mr Secretary of State, nearly 10,000 more people died last year than in 2019, a total of 139 549, according to the report of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office. This is the highest mortality rate since 1999, i.e. 21 years ago. The data also show that death increased significantly in the fall when the second wave of the coronal virus epidemic occurred, i.e. when Viktor Orbán allowed the virus to dictate the pace and the country could not take the pace. In October, we lost 12 500, but in November and December we lost more than 16,000 of our countrymen. Only in these three months, almost 45,000 people died. In the last quarter, there were 13,000 additional deaths compared to the previous year. If we subtract the number of people who died in a confirmed coronal virus, it is clear that at least 3,500 people died in the last months of the year without a sure explanation of their deaths, nor have you given us any explanation. Even though I have repeatedly asked the Minister of Health and you, Mr Secretary of State, here in Parliament, to answer what led to this particular death, we have never been given an explanation. Given the fact that two months have passed since the end of the previous year, a responsible ministry, a responsible minister, should know how nearly 3,500 people died, whose death we can't trace back to viral infection. Could the reasons be that they failed to receive medical treatment, that they had no diagnosis, or that they might have failed therapy? By the way, the answer is not primarily for me, but for those relatives, for those Hungarian families and for those professionals who are still searching for this reason and searching why they lost their relatives. Mr Secretary of State, in view of all this, what can be attributed to the death of 3,500 people, the loss of whom the government has still not been able to account for? Have you examined the causes of these deaths? For example, was healthcare available during the epidemic for people suffering from cancer or for those whose therapy can't wait? Could it be that our dead countrymen were unable to receive care because of the health system, and their deaths were due to this? And when will they finally tell us about this period, when will they finally tell the truth about this in front of the Parliamentary Committee or Committee of Inquiry, or in front of the media or any other public, because they owe this truth and reporting to Hungarian people. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai in the notary seat.]]
u2021-02-15-97	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, who responds to the interpellation.
u2021-02-15-98	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In the past year, we have also sought to solve the lives and health of all Hungarians in the coronal virus epidemic, to protect them, and indeed, the opposition, the left, was not really helping the government and health workers. You also have your own private fake news from last year, when you said that healthcare workers will not automatically receive the HUF 500,000 special allowance that the government has provided for them, but will have to apply for it individually. Life has proven that his claim wasn't real. Unfortunately, his claim was real several years ago when he boasted of transporting doctors abroad, but this [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] I think it is rather not a glory for the left, although it is not a unique case that health care is being undermined rather than improved. As regards the mortality figures of last year, honourable Member, in almost all countries of the world and Europe, more people died in the year 2020 than in 2019 if we look at the numbers, and the question is not that more people died, but which country is where this surplus is smaller and which country is larger. In this respect, Hungary is one of the countries within the European Union where this growth is lower, and if you look at another table, honourable Member, and compare the number of cases reported and the mortality surplus in relation to the coronal virus, you can see that scissors in other countries are much higher, there is much greater uncertainty than in Hungary. The effectiveness of statistics and the fight against the virus is therefore also reported in Hungary. Therefore, if you look at the total mortality surplus, you can see that this figure is fortunately lower in Hungary than in Luxembourg, Malta, France, Portugal, Austria, Sweden, Italy, the Netherlands, England, Slovenia, Czech Republic, Lithuania, Bulgaria, Poland, Belgium or Spain. There may be many diseases that have occurred in the past year, but we have made it clear from the very first moment that everyone who suffers from a disease that endangers his life or if they are not treated will cause him lasting health loss, lasting health damage, of course, these interventions were carried out in Hungary last year as well, obviously in addition to increased safety measures, in more protective equipment, testing patients and protecting the health of both patients and doctors; but they have done all the interventions necessary to prevent life-threatening or permanent deterioration of health. [[15.20]] We did all these things; we also did these interventions, as you could read on the news, in France even cancer patients could be in a situation where they were not treated, even though they were cancer patients, but there was no longer the capacity for health care. In Hungary there was all this capacity: there was always bed for patients with coronal viruses, there was always a doctor, there was always equipment, there was always medicine, and all other people with life-threatening or serious illness had medical care. That is why we can say that this mortality surplus is much smaller in Hungary than in other countries. That is why both protection and the basic functioning of health have been effective in addition to protection, because this number is much lower than in other countries. So I ask you, honourable Member, not to produce another false news that last year's personal reputation still produces one, but to recognise the activities of doctors and nurses who have been better able to protect the health and life of patients with coronal viruses than the countries we have just listed, which are richer than we are. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I think they should be appreciated, because the numbers confirm their work. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-15-99	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-02-15-100	I do not accept it, thank you very much, especially because even Mr Secretary of State has not spoken of the main false news in this reply. The main false news was that Viktor Orbán promised that everyone would be cured. You left 14,000 people to die in a corona virus, you can't account for 3,500 extra people, and you still can't explain, Mr. Secretary. But you know why? Perhaps it is because then it should be admitted that in the summer they were not busy with defense, but were wined in luxury mansiones in Balaton Highlands and spread the virus among themselves; or it should be admitted that your minister is more interested in putting together the bones of King Matthias than protecting sick people and those suffering from the virus. Or we should acknowledge the biggest burn you have, and the biggest burn is that Viktor Orbán let the virus dictate the pace in the fall, and the country couldn't take that pace. He let this happen, it's his result, and he has to take responsibility for it. [[In the notary seat, Sándor Szabó replaces Dezső the Believer.]] Secretary of State, you're going to have to face what happened to this 3,500 people. In fact, it will also turn out that there may be a lot more of them, and the face will be painful, but you have to face it, and honestly tell people what caused it, because the future [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] he needs to learn from it, and if there was a problem, it needs to be corrected for the future. [[The president's ringing again.]] And not cynically laughing at it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2021-02-15-101	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda today. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. At what rate and with what measures is the economic re-launch action plan implemented? It's an address. Mr László Szászfalvi has the floor.
u2021-02-15-102	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, During the eleven years of Fidesz-KDNP governance, we had to deal with a number of domestic and international problems affecting Hungarian society. First, the mistakes of the previous socialist, left-wing government, then the international economic and political situation led Hungary into a crisis situation, and then, after an uplifting period, we had to take economic protection measures over the last year because of the world pandemic of the Crown Virus. However, our goals have not changed: the development of the Hungarian economy by increasing employment, as well as raising wages and reducing tax burdens. In recent years, the government has launched a series of high-profile, economic recovery and reduction measures, resulting in modern country building work in Hungary. This developmental trajectory was rewritten by the effects of the coronal virus situation, which the government had to remedy as soon as possible. That's why in the summer of 2019 It announced and launched a 13+1 point economic protection action plan, which was successful on the basis of facts and data. Dear Secretary of State, It is a joy in itself that, in the current global economy, we can now think and talk about the relaunch of the economy. This is based on the fact that the previous measures have achieved their objective. This also indicates that the Hungarian economy has become stronger and more resilient, even in such a situation. One example is that in December last year, the same number of people worked as before the crisis. Our common goal was to create as many jobs as the virus will destroy. This seems to be a success. The government, with the agreement of the Christian Democratic People's Party, introduced a credit moratorium and provided wage subsidies for sectors in difficulty. We have provided investment support to the Hungarian companies, which has contributed to the preservation of hundreds of thousands of jobs and the creation of tens of thousands of jobs. In addition, last year, Hungarian economic protection kept the investment rate at a high level by maintaining a high proportion of national and public investment. Dear Secretary of State, In addition, the economic re-launch action plan will provide many new opportunities and support for Hungarian businesses. A good example of this is the interest-free, HUF 10 million fast loan, with a 10-year maturity, to help small and medium-sized enterprises restart. Inquiring about the details, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State: at what pace and with what measures is the economic re-launch action plan being implemented? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-15-103	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda, who responds to the interpellation. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-104	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The national-citizen government has indeed already had experience in dealing with crisis situations, as the left had to bring Hungary back from bankruptcy by 2010 due to its irresponsible, harmful governance that ignores the interests of Hungarian people, Hungarian families and Hungarian companies. Unemployment in 2010, we all remember it well, was at its peak; people were driven into foreign exchange loans; they put unbearable burdens on workers and Hungarian people. Honourable Congressman, Our political philosophy is completely different from that of the left: we believe in the value creation and work of people and companies. These are the ones that should be preferred rather than humiliating aid. We all think that it is necessary to build a work-based economy, and instead of framing families and taxing them irresponsiblely, we also need family-friendly measures to help Hungarian families from the government side. And this policy was successful, because by 2019 there were 850 thousand more people working in our country than in 2010; unemployment was record low; employment was as high as possible in recent decades. But, honourable Member, as you said, last year's appearance of the coronal virus was also a threat to these results, and the virus was also a threat to jobs, so we immediately started to defend ourselves in this area as well. In addition to protecting human life, the Hungarian government has introduced a number of measures to protect jobs and create new jobs. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to tell you that the defense was successful. That is what you referred to, because in December 2020 more than a year before the crisis, more than 4.5 million people are working again in Hungary. Honourable Congressman, And now it is indeed the turn to restart the economy, which is why the government has decided on a number of necessary measures. It's like we reduced the tax on housing to five percent. This can result in some 40,000 apartments being built every year. [[15.30]] We give families a discount loan of HUF 6 million for the renovation of the apartments, and of which HUF 3 million is non-refundable. This is also particularly important because it shows that we support families, while the left is barely scratching them. Left-wing governments abolished the home creation programme and pushed Hungarian families into foreign exchange loans [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] On the other hand, they are supported by the civil national government. But we have introduced a new credit facility for small and medium-sized enterprises, with a zero-percent loan of HUF 10 million for 10 years. We provide wage support to companies in distress, which protects the jobs of over 100,000 people. With a credit moratorium, we help businesses and families alike, and what has also been discussed in the Parliament, we provide historical wage increases to doctors, health care workers, who we know for sure are under the Gyurcsány government. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] They could only be at a disadvantage. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-105	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-106	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply. I think that, despite the many tribulations, trials, difficulties and challenges, we can say that it is a great achievement that we did not have to return to the aid-based economy and support for aid, which, indeed, as the Secretary of State said, meant a humiliating life situation for many families and many, many citizens at the time. I think that we should also point out that the economic re-launch action plan includes several points, more activities and government measures that help social groups in a particularly difficult situation, such as 3 million forints of home renovation support, and then the restoration of 13th month's pension, and in addition, a moratorium on loan repayment is also particularly helpful to these families, these groups and social groups. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I therefore, of course, accept your answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-107	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, It's 3:32 p.m., and we're at the end of the interpellation trial. We are now continuing our work with immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, representatives of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I will ask the Members, whether they will accept the person who is responding, or whether they will ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2021-02-15-108	We'll wait for the Prime Minister, thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-02-15-109	Thank you. I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Tamás Csányi and György Lukács, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask an immediate question [[Interjection and noise from Jobbik's ranks.]] If you don't mind, Congressman, I'd like to continue, thank you. [[György Szilágyi: No more names, Mr President.]] to the Minister of Human Resources: What do you think of this, Minister? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2021-02-15-110	Mr President, Names are easy to miss, and I don't want to criticize housekeeping...
u2021-02-15-111	I ask the congressman's answer: yes or no?
u2021-02-15-112	... but according to Viktor Orbán Kasler Minister... [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2021-02-15-113	I would like to ask for a yes or no answer. [[On the sign of Dr. László György Lukács:]] Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the identity of the responder. I would like to inform you that the Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Do you think about this level of government? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[György Szilágyi: I accept, thank you.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-02-15-114	Dear Minister, László Földi, your favorite home security policy expert, made a very serious statement these days, saying that for the sake of Hungary, the Internet must be turned off. Why we have to deal with this and why we have to take this statement seriously, allow me to list three parts of it! Because the expert, who you regularly employ in your lie factories, regularly tells the panels produced by your propaganda industry, and does everything in his power to send Fidesz's messages to voters, is it also your message that the Internet must be turned off in Hungary? Secondly, such statements must be taken seriously because we know very well that the restriction of the public has been on the agenda ever since 2010. For example, journalists were excluded from many points of the Parliament, critical media against NER were bled out, grinded or possessed, and the only forum where the public could not be controlled was the Orbán government's intention to tax you earlier, and you were finally deterred by the decisive opposition action and the tens of thousands of demonstrations. And thirdly, this statement must be taken seriously because you have been constantly defeated over the last few months on the Internet platforms, such as the President of Jobbik, Peter James, regularly washes the Fidesz, the Fidesz politicians and Viktor Orbán off the map. To mention just one example: a video by Peter James last week resulted in 710,000 launches, while the best performing Fidesz politician has 13 videos, only 380 thousand, and we know that if you can't control something, you want to stop and grind it all the time. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Do you really intend to ban the Internet, Minister? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-02-15-115	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2021-02-15-116	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Of course, in the hour of immediate questioning, the opposition is free to choose the subject of questioning, but if... [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Thank you very much for your permission.]] and no one wants to limit it [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] But if such nonsense is mentioned by the opposition, it shows that he has too much time for immediate questions. Obviously, we don't want it, we don't want it. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: We should close Parliament, for example!]] We want, we don't know, we've never been aiming for any restrictions on the Internet in Hungary [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Internet transmitter!]] So the suggestions about this, guesses might be during a different-colored left-wing government that Jobbik would be a new member of. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Oh, come on!]] would arise, but I assure the Member that, under our governance, any restriction on the Internet is not possible and cannot be imagined beyond the limitations which already exist in very extreme cases and which are selected on the basis of content. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-117	Thank you very much for the Minister's reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2021-02-15-118	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. Well, that could reassure us that if we didn't have the experience, you know, like the Prime Minister says, or the Prime Minister says, and then, I suppose, the ministers too, to look not at what I'm saying, but at what I'm doing. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Like this, like this!]] And you've already tried to restrict the Internet, you've tried to limit certain platforms, and we're also going to see, however you deny, that you're constantly trying to grind the media, that the media is almost entirely under your control, and that public media and public media dependent on public money are clearly being used for their own purposes. That is why it may seem comforting, what you have said, that you do not wish to grind and ban the Internet just because you are constantly defeated there, but unfortunately I think that there is a real danger, because you are trying to build a dictatorship in Hungary where you will not tolerate it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] opposition voices, they don't tolerate an opinion that doesn't match yours. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[15.40]]
u2021-02-15-119	Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2021-02-15-120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The congressman asked me a completely absurd question, and I gave him a serious answer. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] If you don't give me credit for this, there's no need to ask questions here, then you can give your opinion without listening to my answer. What I would just like to say is that if you look at the different sides of Jobbik, there are many who complain that they will be banned because of the wording of opinions contrary to Jobbik. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Poor Nacsa Gunner is also hurt!]] So, first sweep around your own house, and then make accusations that have no basis at all, and which, I repeat, belongs to the category of absurdity. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] And it's seriously not an option. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-15-121	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Secretary. The signal wasn't for you. It was for the noise, of course. [[Gergely Gulyás: But I'm done too!]] Dear Parliament, [[Intercoms.]] Yes, Congressmen, yes. It is appropriate to listen to the answer with integrity, just as the Minister did. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "The M9 Road." Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has given him the right to reply. I ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister personally for an answer.
u2021-02-15-122	I'll take it.
u2021-02-15-123	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-02-15-124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Chief Secretary. This year the Danube Bridge in Szekszárd, officially known as the St. László Bridge, will be of age. It was almost 18 years ago that, although there was one in a row, the various political parties handed over this bridge, which was a great thing in its time, because after seventy years it was the first bridge of the Danube in the countryside, and at the time of its construction we enjoyed the longest bridge of the Danube in the area. But, Minister, 18 years have passed since then, and this bridge has been signed as part of the M9 motorway or motorway along with 20 kilometers of highway, which has since been marked by the M9 road for 18 years, whoever goes that way. What happened after that is a relatively relative thing, because under the MSZP governments, the M6 motorway at least crossed the area, and so Pécs or Budapest is also available from our side, but the East-West connection has not been established since then. However, the section of this long-long motorway between Kaposvár and Szekszárd, which would run from Sopron to Szeged at least, is the part of Kaposvár-Szekszárd that was most prepared, licensing plans, export plans, necessary documentation. In September 2015, the current government announced that it had received an environmental permit for this phase. Therefore, it was a particularly cold shower for all MPs, mayors, but mostly for all entrepreneurs and citizens who lived there, that someone had redecorated this map in some mysterious place, in time and for some reason, and that the M9 highway was no longer intended to be built towards Szekszárd and with the touch of Dombóvár, Bonyhád. This means the death of the region in the long term, Minister, so I am right to ask the Minister to reassure the Tolna County that this is just a duck. Please assure us that the M9 road will continue to pass through the region of Szekszárd, Bonyhád and Dombóvár and the southern area. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Some other alternative solution will be found. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-02-15-125	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-126	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, With regard to the track on the M9 motorway, I can only indicate that expert discussions are still under way. It is undoubtedly true that the situation is the easiest in terms of authorisation at the stage you mentioned. There are several options for the location line management, which will be decided by the government on the final track, and therefore there is no reason for panicking or making any final decision other than the previous plans. If the government decision is made, the trail will be clear, clear, and even if the proposal presents an alternative and we strive to make it so, then it will also be known to everyone. But since there's no government decision yet, I'm gonna have to ask for your patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-15-127	I thank the Minister for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-128	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary. I didn't want to make any alarms. This news, as I understand it, appeared in the Hungarian Nation or in a newspaper or newspaper near the government. I'm not the only one taking it seriously. The Minister, Commissioner, knows that the Fidesz local government leaders and mayors of the region except for Mayor Ács Rezső Szekszárd, for some reason he was not interested in this, Fidesz MPs met a week ago, and they also expressed their incomprehension, and I do not want to say again what the stakes are, the stakes are huge. We ask that one, if someone is somewhere, will decide something and then tell us, it is not enough on this issue, Minister. Involve the region, involve even the opposition representatives in this matter. Secondly, we would like to ask that the M9, as it did in 2001, 2009 and below you in 2015, has been decided from a professional point of view to come on this route, and now there is no time for us to agree on how many arguments there are, be kind enough to find an alternative where, in an acceptable way, the connection of the South Baranya region will also take place, and not at the price of the division of Tolna County. Thank you, Minister.
u2021-02-15-129	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-02-15-130	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, As it is clear from the consultation you have mentioned, of course, the pro-government representatives will also agree on the matter, there are mayoral requests, the government will also welcome these, as well as the views of its representatives, regardless of their party affiliation, and in the light of these, we hope that it will also make the right decision to your expectations. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-15-131	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, What do you think, Prime Minister? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has given him the right to reply. I ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister personally for an answer.
u2021-02-15-132	Since reading minds is not included in the Minister's Statute...
u2021-02-15-133	Your answer, please, Congressman.
u2021-02-15-134	...so I'd wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-15-135	Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Mr László Varju, representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. There is no crisis in crisis management. Why doesn't the Orbán government help businesses in trouble? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, Deputy Minister, was entitled to respond. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister for an answer in person.
u2021-02-15-136	I'll take it, thank you.
u2021-02-15-137	Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-02-15-138	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Just a few days ago, we heard from you again how well the Hungarian economy is doing, how many people, jobs, companies have been saved by the government. Dear Secretary of State, György Matolcsy does not believe that the government's work is being criticized by the President of the Central Bank, which cannot be accused of Fidesz. Matolcsy said that crisis management is not effective, that Hungary is not successful, that Romania is leaving Hungary, so the Prime Minister's right-hand man who cannot be cut off says that. Maybe you should sit down and discuss what happens when Matolcsy says that, because the crisis is even worse. Once again, the European Union, which you have kicked, is coming with a lot of money to help, it is being used, but it is still a fact: an unprecedented amount of public debt and deficit, a weak forint, an increase in the price of basic food, an inflation of bread, vegetable prices by nearly 8 percent, and a liter of fuel again. You didn't really help anyone but your own relatives, I could tell you that Bunny's friends and business partners, who were only getting rich during the crisis. Meanwhile, thousands of companies have been destroyed in the crisis, the wealth of Lőrinc Mészáros in a year, and yet again I say that 70 billion bunny carrots have grown. [[15.50]] Since you, the panic government, can't and didn't want to help, I draw attention to DK's four-point package: 80 percent of last year's income from Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises must be paid, 80 percent of the wages of workers made redundant by the epidemic, and the government should pay back from the Crown Virus Fund, and EU support for crisis management can only be used for this. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] These are the four points that you can help me with. Where's the money, Mr. Secretary? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2021-02-15-139	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-02-15-140	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, We have had quite a long debate in the last few months here in Parliament about how the government is helping the Hungarian economy, Hungarian businesses and Hungarian families in times of crisis. You never agreed, you didn't acknowledge anything, you didn't agree, you didn't agree. If you'll excuse me, I wouldn't repeat these, because it doesn't mean anything to you. I'd rather give you some results. For example, in 2020 the decline in GDP will exceed 5 percent, which is not good, but if we compare it with other countries, then you will see that the performance of the Hungarian economy is good, and the government has helped this significantly with its actions. Because if the government doesn't help it, it's not a 5 percent drop, it's like other countries, you'll see it, maybe over 10 percent. Then: In December 2020, the volume of industrial production exceeded 5.8 percent a year earlier. How could this have been if the government had not helped with its actions? Or net wages increased by 9.6%, and real wages increased by 6 percent between January and November. The performance of the construction industry exceeded the previous year by 12.1 percent in November. And believe it or not, during the pandemic, Hungary received an investment of HUF 1676 billion. But we can continue to do the same in terms of the labour situation, because in December 4.5 million people worked, as before the crisis. This also shows that the government was on the right track with its economic protection measures. I believe that your claims are clearly contradicted by facts, statistics, numbers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-141	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-142	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to say that what you are saying means something, because when you refer to investment, it can mean something to the Hungarian economy for the next two years, but it has not helped those who have been ruined in the last year or so. Don't be too proud of minus 5 percent, and that's just the beginning, otherwise more said by the Minister himself, so a much greater reduction in GDP can be expected. We'll see the numbers at the end, but don't be proud of that. Moreover, you can't be proud in Italy either, and the Prime Minister has failed, which, by the way, is waiting for you. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He was on the left!]] If there is something you would like to ease, then you would be kind enough to follow what I said: 80 percent of last year's income from small and medium-sized enterprises should be paid. 80% of the wages of workers made redundant during the epidemic have to be paid, do so retroactively. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And that's the only thing they're using the corona virus fund for. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-02-15-143	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-144	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your advice, Congressman. Instead, the government will do the following: launch its economic re-launch action plan. Part of this is: reduce the tax on housing by 5 percent We provide non-refundable support for home renovation of HUF 3 million, together with the preferential loan of HUF 6 million; we continue to provide wage support to businesses; doctors can expect a historical wage increase; we will begin to rebuild the 13th month pension, unlike you, who have taken away the 13th month pension. [[László Varju: We introduced it!]] I'm retired from 009. I'm asking you where the money is. Where's the money, Mr. Varju? I'm a 2009 pensioner. [[It's an intervention from DK's ranks.]] And they took my 13th month pension away from me, but I could go on. I'm a public servant here. They took a month's salary from me! [[László Varju: Don't starve to death, Secretary of State. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'll ask you, Mr. Varju, where's the money. Answer me! Where did they put the money in 2009 and 2010? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I could continue the duration of the economic re-launch action plan. I trust we will have the opportunity to explain this in the next few weeks. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-145	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister for an answer in person.
u2021-02-15-146	I'll wait for Prime Minister. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-02-15-147	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: how much will be taken from the Saturdays? It's an address. Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2021-02-15-148	Yeah.
u2021-02-15-149	Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-02-15-150	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, Following the local elections in 2019, several representatives of the government offered cooperation to elected local government leaders and did so without partying. These fine words, we see now, have not been followed by any concrete action, and indeed they do everything to punish those people who have voted for non-fidesz municipal leadership by taking away the services they would receive from the municipalities. It's no different in Szombathely. András Nemény led Szombathely, which was the first to say the importance of masking in the country, even when Müller Cecília spoke about the danger of masking, the leadership in Saturday and the citizens in Szombathely are being punished by taking away about HUF 5 billion in various ways. They did this with the suspension of the business tax, the introduction of free parking, which, according to the Fidesz Szombathely area, is an extra thing, they did by raising the solidarity tax, and they did so by giving back money from what was taken to every county seat in the area, except Szombathely. They gave me back to Zalaegerszeg, they gave me back to Győr, they gave me back to Székesfehérvár, they gave me back to Veszprém, they didn't give me back to Szombathely alone. This is because this is the only large city in Western Transdanubia that has been led by opposition or because Csaba Hende, the individual representative of the region, failed as minister and failed as lobbyist in Szombathely, because he is the only one in the region who could not get an orphan forint back to the city he represents. My question to the government is why the people of Győr and Zalaegerszeg are more important than the people of Szombathely, and when will you finally consider that because someone did not vote for you, they are still the same Hungarian citizens.
u2021-02-15-151	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-02-15-152	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like you to indicate to those mayors that the citizens of Hungary are equal, who have won their seats in opposition colors and who, for some inexplicable reason, call their own cities Free Cities, excluding cities where, perhaps by a few hundred votes, the left did not receive more, but a few hundred or a few thousand, or even to a greater extent, the mayor supported by the Christian Democratic Government has received several votes. So in the matter of exclusion and the equality of voters, I respectfully request you to act with these mayors, including the mayor of Szombathely, not to exclude from the Free Cities cities the cities and citizens of cities who, by the way, did not vote for left-to-wind-right-green cooperation in the elections. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] As far as the case of Szombathely is concerned, I would like to start by saying that since the change of regime, no one has done as much as Csaba Hende, who, as Vice-President of the Parliament, has led the Legislative Committee today, but in the first place is the largest lobbyist in the region and in the city. Even former Director General Jordan acknowledged that even the existence of the theatre was due to Csaba Hende. [[16.00]] But it has played a huge role in achieving Szombathely by car in excellent traffic conditions, and the development of recent decades is integral to Csaba Hende's name. The government is committed to implementing the programmes set out in the agreement concluded in the framework of the programme, and no matter how the voters of Szombathely decided in the municipal elections before last year, accordingly, the implementation of the programme will continue with the involvement of significant resources, which I will list in the rejoinder. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-15-153	I would like to welcome my fellow Members. Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Péter Ungár. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-154	Thank you for the floor. First of all, to sum up the relationship between Fidesz and Tamás Jordan as a positive thing, that chutzpah could be a definition, I think, dear Minister. So what you've done with Thomas Jordan, and then you're gonna say it like that, it's really the top of it all. But let's talk about how you couldn't answer why you had to compensate for taking your hip for Zalaegerszeg, not for Fehérvár, Győr Szombathely! Answer that one question. Even though you speak a lot of things, you can say nice words, the fact is that from last year's post-Christmas or around Christmas, you only care about people in the Fidesz municipality, and the rest of you don't. This is the cradle, road maintenance, garbage transportation... and in such ways will be felt by the people of Saturday, who have been so very, very successful in Csaba Hende's lobbying activity that it means zero forints. [[Lajos Rig: Minus 5 billion! A round of applause from the LMP.]]
u2021-02-15-155	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-02-15-156	Appreciate the effort made by the Member, Mr President, on the part of Mr II, After the district, after Budapest, he wishes to start in Szombathely, and I can only confirm Csaba Hende's words that we can only support you against your expected opponent on the Balliberal side, because at least then it is not a tax fraud who will start in Szombathely for the mandate. This can undoubtedly lead to internal debates, say, with Congressman Varju, but if this can be resolved, we wish you good luck after the departure in Budapest, and I can wish you a similar result. As far as the specific developments are concerned, I can say that the necessary resources are also available for the development of the section between Szombathely and Egyházasrádóc into the expressway to connect Szombathely and Kőszeg with the expressway. The renovation of the Gothard Castle is under way from more than HUF 2 billion, the renovation of the Szombathely Gallery building, investments for sports purposes, the comprehensive renovation and support of the county building is also under way, and I will meet the mayors of the county-righted cities, so I will meet the Mayor of Szombathely this week. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-15-157	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Sándor Burány and Timea Szabó, representatives of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What is going on? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I respectfully ask Mr Sándor Burány to accept the person of the response or to ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2021-02-15-158	Mr. President. We would like to wait for Prime Minister Viktor Orbán on this issue.
u2021-02-15-159	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, and also the House, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question, and thank you very much for waiting for me to present it. So, Honourable Parliament, Congressman Sándor Burány, representative of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, too, what is going on here? It's an address. Since you have already indicated your acceptance of Gergely Gulyás's reply to the Prime Minister's Office, I will give you the floor, so it is up to Mr Sándor Burány. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-160	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Minister, Dear House, Let's get used to Fidesz coming up with a sentence that will solve this problem in the future. This was also the case when the second wave of the coronal virus outbreak erupted, when he was no smaller than Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, he said that we would cure those who will be sick. From that promise, it was evident that nothing was unfulfilled, since tragic mortality figures fell upon us in the fall. Now, when it comes to saving the economy, when it comes to saving jobs, the same record is on the record player, and now it is said to just wait for the reboot, the economic action plan, there will always be some idea in the future for the government, Fidesz, and then we will create more jobs than the crisis has ended, and so on and so on and so on. Such thinking is similar to telling a serious sick person to trust in resuscitation rather than helping him not to enter the state of clinical death. Dear Minister, I just want to say that businesses that go bankrupt cannot be restarted, companies that go bankrupt cannot be pulled out of trouble by way of lending. It could have been done, but you are not doing what Germany or Austria is doing, and in Germany and Austria 20 and 30 percent of the jobs there have been supported. The same ratio in Hungary, according to your statistics, does not exceed 5 percent or 5 percent. Couldn't we focus on protecting jobs rather than creating new ones? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-02-15-161	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-02-15-162	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If we look at the employment figures, they do not support the Member's concern, of course it is true that the situation of the whole economy has resulted in a very difficult case of the coronal virus epidemic. We know today that this has also led to recession in Hungary, even if Hungary is among the better in terms of the size of the recession and not among those whose economic decline was above 6 percent, and the majority of the European Union's countries are like this. At the same time, if we look specifically at employment protection measures, we can say that we have protected 327 thousand jobs with wage support programmes, job protection wage support: 17 thousand, 200 thousand workers from micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, 33 000 We have paid billions of forints for these purposes. The R &amp; D support protects 21,000 employees of 1100 companies. In the sectors most affected by the crisis, the number of jobs protected exceeded 100,000. We also support the creation of new jobs. In these programmes, 336 thousand jobs have been strengthened and 34,000 new jobs have been created. In addition, the credit moratorium, even if the Member is a few, is a serious help. In the crisis sectors, we have taken over contributions and half the salary. Overall, this is slightly more than two thirds of the labour cost, it is easy to calculate. I think this is a good indication that, where possible, and where the government has a way, we are helping. As a result, we are now at a point where, one year after the outbreak of the coronal virus, the number of employees in Hungary did not decrease, but even increased by a few thousand. This is the same KSH data that you have been working on, the same methodology that, at the time of your governance, has shown 900 thousand fewer workers outside of a crisis period than at this time of crisis. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-15-163	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Sándor Burány. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-164	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If you mention employment data, in January 2021 the National Employment Service registered nearly 300,000 job seekers, almost 50,000 more than in the same period of the previous year. Unfortunately, that's the sad fact. If we add that nearly half of these, more than 147 thousand people receive no help, no income, no unemployment benefits or benefits, then the situation is even more tragic. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to helping us now, not in the future, when these people are in a very serious situation. Here are the examples of three of my friends; two of them worked and worked in Germany, the third in Hungary, Hungary. All three Hungarian people. Those who work for Germany receive between 70% and 80% of their salary, who lost their job in Hungary, and who does not get a penny. [[16.10]] And you refuse to give him any job-seeking benefits. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] When are you going to change that attitude? Thank you.
u2021-02-15-165	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Minister.
u2021-02-15-166	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that people who have lost their jobs get unemployment benefits and those who want to return to the labour market. So the fixed number from which it is worth starting is the employment number. This was 4,499 700 according to the latest KSH data over a year ago. The fact that many people are probably looking for jobs because they cannot go abroad, I think, is positive. They have to, and they have to, create jobs. It's not aid, it's an opportunity to work. All of the government's decisions, the hundreds of billions of forints of subsidies paid for economic recovery and partly wage support, are designed to help them get a job. But I would appreciate it if the Member acknowledged in a statement that, in contrast to those countries where the crisis has indeed led to mass unemployment, according to Eurostat data, the third is the lowest unemployment in Hungary, and employment has not decreased but increased after ten months of the economic crisis caused by a coronal virus epidemic. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-167	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Member László Horváth, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[László Horváth: I accept.]] Thank you very much. Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. Mr László Horváth has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-168	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In recent weeks, tens of thousands of people have been vaccinated with a coronal virus vaccine, and the vaccination campaign continues this week. The most important thing now is to have as many and sufficient vaccines as possible to protect people's lives and restart the country. Those in greater trouble are in greater danger, and of course we must allow them to be protected from the plague. It is therefore important and essential that everyone adheres to the vaccination schedule and follow clear and clear rules. However, the politicians of the Gyurcsány coalition chose to intrusive rather than be responsible. At the beginning of January Gyöngyös the mayor of the left asked for and received an unauthorized vaccination, all of which he did not even register. However, the vaccine was given not only to himself but also to his wife. György Hiesz did not belong and does not belong to the vulnerable age group now, he could not have prevented the elderly and sick people of György who patiently waited and waited for the vaccination plan to take place. Then Újbuda's DK mayor, Imre László, couldn't help himself. As mayor, he doesn't work in health care, I wish he had the chance. So he was not entitled to the vaccine against the coronal virus either, but he didn't care about the rules quickly, after all, he also injected himself with the vaccine. Surprisingly, but slowly it is not so surprising from the anti-vaccination left that their politicians steal secretly for the vaccine they criticized all along. With all due respect, Mr Secretary of State, what damage has been done to the left so far in the defence, and with what further consequences [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] If you don't follow the rules that protect you? Thank you.
u2021-02-15-169	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-170	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The left is now not only a George Soros, but there is also an out-of-line György in the person of Mayor György Hiesz, who has ignored all kinds of rules, who has ignored the fact that in his own settlement, who has chosen him, there is one person who needs vaccination against the coronal virus more than he does at the moment, but he and his wife have gone and been vaccinated instead of a man who would have come forward in the vaccination order. This also shows the huge duplicity of the left: they preach water out of course, drink wine inwards; DKs collect signatures on the outside against the Chinese vaccine, while they immediately inoculate themselves. In fact, the other extreme within the same party: in the last few days left-wing mayors of DK stood up and asked that their constituents, the people in their districts and their settlements, not be vaccinated with the Chinese and Russian vaccines. They asked the mayors, who should represent the interests of the people, who should give the people freedom to decide whether they want to be vaccinated or not, and which vaccine they want to be vaccinated with, and which they do not, to make a decision for them, when they said that the hundreds of thousands of people who live in their settlements should not receive or receive any other vaccine, only from what the mayor thinks the inhabitants of the district or part of the city represented by him can receive, completely override any choice. It is incredibly irresponsible for a mayor to break the vaccination order on the one hand and, on the other hand, for the other mayors of the left, on the other hand, to say that in their districts, in their settlements, there are fewer vaccines and therefore vaccinations should come later than in all the rest of the country. Whose interest do you represent? They sacrifice everything on the altar of their political goals [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] they could even endanger human health. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-171	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Horváth. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-172	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. György Hiesz said in an interview, when he got caught, of course, only after he had an hour to think about adding the opportunity offered to him, would he want to take the opportunity offered illegally. After an hour of thinking, he couldn't think of anyone but himself. In an hour, so proud of the title of the Old Friendly Mayor, so proud left-wing mayor did not think of an elderly, sick, truly entitled person in Gyöngyös. This is a hit-and-run, because when there is a small chance that they can gain undue advantage of their self-interest, they do so without hesitation or inhibition. The mayor has failed the elderly, and the left has failed its own voters in such cases, even though they deserve more. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-173	Thank you very much, Congressman. It's for the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-174	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What we can see is that in many countries in Europe they are already defending themselves against the third wave of the virus, everyone is trying to comply with all kinds of protective measures, and in many countries they are tightening up, because the rules need to be respected more and more to protect people's health in other countries of Europe. On the other hand, we can see that the left in Hungary speaks against vaccinations, and at the same time, it also gives itself vaccinations; here in Parliament he speaks against CSOK, but in the meantime he takes on CSOK; he talks about raising the wages of doctors, which this government does, because this year there was a radical increase in medical wages in Hungary, while, when he was on the government, he took one month's wages from all Hungarian doctors and all Hungarian nurses, while he introduced a visitation fee and hospital daily allowance. This shows that Hungarians cannot count on the left. For the left, one thing is important: himself. The epidemic is also important in order to gain political benefit or to use its public authority to inoculate itself, as in the case of György Hiesz. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-175	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Uncertainty in health care? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[Lajos Rig nodds.]] Congressman says he'll take it. It is for Congressman Lajos Rig. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-176	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, It is also an honour to hear from the Secretary of State, because if the rumours are true, then the next expectant EMMI minister... [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: They're not true!]] If the news is true, then so be it. What we all know here, Members and Secretary of State, is that we have been fighting the virus for almost a year now, and we are fighting Hungary and health workers. In addition, last year we carried over a new medical salad law in twenty-four hours, the main communication of which was mainly on the state level about the increase in doctors' wages and the release of gratuity money. But that's not all this law was about. [[16.20]] What was it about? The new Health Act mentioned the new health status, whereby the status of civil servants acquired so far will be abolished and transformed into a new health service right. The right to strike is limited, the possibility of concluding collective agreements is limited, the tightening of secondary jobs, the signing of permits and deadlines were set, Mr Secretary of State. There were deadlines, for example, that the employee had 30 days to get to know the contract and sign it in 30 days. But that didn't happen. The medical staff besides the ventilator aren't lawyers, they didn't get a contract of employment, they got a legal evaluation, taking specific passes. Now, Secretary of State, can you imagine going home after 24 hours of work or 12 hours of shift, looking at the archives, how to interpret, what applies to the on-call fee, what applies to the afternoon allowance, what applies to the call and stand-by allowances? They're not lawyers. They did not receive any information from the managers at work, only received the eight-page legal information issued by the national hospital director-general, and so far they have not received employment contracts. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-02-15-177	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-02-15-178	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Neither you nor Congressman László György Lukács believe at least the false news generated by themselves, and I suggest that you make your first remark. As far as medical wages are concerned, honourable Member, I think we can all be happy that we are members of the Parliament that has adopted a bill that has so radically increased the wages of doctors in Hungary as perhaps never before in the history of past generations. That is why we are part of the process that, after 70 years, we can date it somewhere to the beginning of the communist period, when the thank-you money was published in Hungary, after 70 years we can be part of the process of leading out the institution of gratitude money, which has resulted in an extremely unworthy situation for doctors, nurses, patients, relatives and everyone. It was unworthy that doctors did not receive adequate wages compared to their work. This was obviously a conscious policy of the communist period, because the intellectuals considered doctors as part of the leading class of the previous period, which is why they wanted to be humiliated with low wages, but people made up for the difference between communist judgment and fair judgment in relation to the commission of the doctor. Thank God, with this radical wage increase, we're way ahead of the gratuity money we've ever been since you and me, we've been living here. I would also like to thank you for volunteering during the coronal virus epidemic and for your efforts to help heal as many people as possible. Before the bill, the government consulted the Hungarian Medical Chamber, which has been consulted since then, precisely so that it can get to know the Chamber's opinion on issues that are important. As you know, this pay table is based on the proposal submitted by the Chamber, which has been raised by the government to the legal level. In order to ensure that there are no uncertainties, this is why we postponed the change from January to March, while the increased wages are already in January, so in recent days the increased medical wages have arrived at the doctor's bank accounts. As you pointed out, the National Hospital Directorate-General sent a letter of information to all concerned to get to know in detail some of the elements of the new legal relationship. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-15-179	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Lajos Rig has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-02-15-180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, health workers in several forums resent what I have said, that is, that they are not lawyers and that they are very difficult to interpret. They needed one-off communication. When you or your colleagues receive a contract of employment, you will receive it not in medical Latin, but in Hungarian, which benefits you will receive. The fact that the situation is unworthy is the case at the moment, because they are in a state of insecurity. According to the current survey of MESZK, there is a high proportion of healthcare workers, and we are talking not only about doctors, but also about health workers, who are going to be out of touch because of insecurity, and the worst case scenario is that they are not only careers, but also country leavers. That's what I've always asked the EMMI, the Ministry of Health and Control to give clear messages to health workers, so that they don't have to save lives during the virus situation, not just covid patients, but also in the area of emergency care. Thank you for your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-02-15-181	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is precisely because of the safety of the disease control that the government has decided that there is no upper limit to health protection, we have spent over a thousand billion forints to fight the epidemic on the health front. There must be a thousand billion more to say, but in order to preserve the security of the economy, the government has mobilised huge economic resources in the budget precisely to ensure the basis for protection. You said it was important not to have doubts about health care as a doctor or nurse, whether or not to pursue this career. One of the most important confirmations of this is the increase in medical wages and nursing wages by 72 percent in four years. There is little stronger confirmation than that, honourable Member, because if you look at it, since 2010, we have increased the wages of nurses more than twice, last year there was a 14 per cent increase and a 20 per cent increase, a 30 per cent increase next year. We also want to show that we want to strengthen these people, so a doctor who has worked for 20 years must earn over a million forints this year, but this wage will be gross for nearly 1.5 million forints next year. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-15-183	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What is the difference between Balliberal and national crisis management? It's an address. Mr President, because of the Minister's absence, Mr Tamás Schanda has given the Secretary of State the right to reply. [[Nacsa Lawrence says yes.]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc has the floor. Here you go. [[Continue in 179/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, 15 February 2021 Monday 179/2. Number Parliamentary Diary
u2021-02-15-184	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As a result of the coronal virus epidemic, the economy and, in particular, its sectors have suffered a number of difficulties throughout the world, in Europe and thus in our country. Now that the crisis management has taken place and the main pillars of the economic re-opening action plan are known, it is not difficult to take stock of and see how the Gyurcsány-Bajnai pair reacted to an economic crisis and what the civil-national government did.In 2008-2009, the Balliberal Government was a supporter of austerity, the families and the elderly were most distressed, while the foreign compliance pressure was at its peak at the time. Let us look at some measures without the need for completeness, the consequences of the 2008 loan pact of Gyurcsány-Bajnai and the economy misdirected over the years. Family tax relief and home-building benefits have been abolished, as well as favourable housing loans have been abolished. The 600 billion-dollar withdrawal led to the collapse of patient care, school closures, hiring and dismissals among teachers. A month's withdrawal of pensions and a drastic reduction in the real value of pensions, as well as a triple increase in gas prices. That's not enough! Taxes, personal income tax, excise duty have been raised, and retirement age has been increased. They reduced municipal subsidies to an amazing extent, cut sick money by 10 percent and eliminated gas price and district heat compensation. Just a few examples of a misguided, human-destructive crisis management. Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife recently admitted that when she said in a TV interview that she had managed to save the banks, but could not save the people. So this was the left-wing crisis management, they abused families, they abused the elderly, and they saved the banks instead of the people. This was what people said no to, and they did not ask for any more crisis management from which all people living in Hungary, except your oligarchs, the red barons and their friends, would have come out wrong. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State the difference between Balliberal and national crisis management. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-15-185	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as we have heard, will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-186	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, there are fundamental philosophical and attitudes differences between the left and the civil-national government. We believe in work instead of humiliating aid, we build a work-based economy, and instead we implement family-friendly measures that help Hungarian families. During the catastrophic governance of the left, he took the opposite measures: he scratched the families, and he put unbearable burdens on the workers. [[16.30]] Honourable Congressman, The Left's response to the crisis was a tax increase. The general rate of VAT was raised by 5 percentage points, and they also wanted to levy real estate taxes. On the other hand, we reduced the tax on housing to 5%. The left was taxing families in the crisis. On the other hand, we provide grants, such as a discount loan of HUF 6 million for the renovation of apartments, of which HUF 3 million is non-refundable. This is all part of the economic re-launch action plan. Let us not forget that the left has abolished the 13th month pension. In the crisis, because of the crisis, we will begin to rebuild the 13th month pension, which was taken from our elderly countrymen by the left. This is about 3 million people's actions. Honourable Congressman, This is why the opposition is not credible when it comes to protecting jobs, because the left has dealt with the crisis with austerity and tax increases before, as we all know. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-187	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-02-15-188	Thank you very much. Mr President, It is clear that the left-wing people's response to the crisis is always the tax increase, the humiliation of people and the poverty of the elderly. After all, we can see that, even in the face of the economic difficulties caused by the current coronal virus epidemic, left-wing city leaders are only able to think about tax increases. That is why it is a joy that the government has taken the necessary step to forbid local authorities, in such a difficult epidemic and crisis situation, to impose additional taxes on people and businesses living there, since many left-wing municipalities have been constantly thinking about tax increases as a proven socialist method of crisis management. Thank you, Mr State Secretary, for listing certain elements of the economic reopening action plan. I would also like to highlight a symbolic one, since the retirement of the 13th month has begun. The government led by Ferenc Gyurcsány submitted that bill, and several left-wing representatives here voted in favour of taking a month's pension from the elderly, who carried this country on their backs for decades. I'm glad the Fidesz-KDNP government can give this back. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-15-189	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-190	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Let us not forget that the left has not changed since 2010. We also saw this today when they said no to the measures against the epidemic and said no to providing the necessary support. Honourable Congressman, If it had been on the left, there would have been no more sectoral wage subsidies from midnight on 22 February, there would have been no credit moratorium, there would have been no tax and contribution reductions, there would have been no rent waivers, there would have been no general medical rent arrangements, and besides the subsidies, all the rules of protection would have been repealed. That's what the left has to say: they're blocking the defense. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-191	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister, without a wallet in charge of the management of national assets, an immediate question:. The emergency brake is the solution? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Madam Secretary János Fónagy has appointed Secretary of State to respond to your absence. [[For signal:]] I do not have to tell you any more, because the congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-192	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Fellow Members! It is quite amazing that, according to press information, more than 200 harassments have occurred recently on the lines of Gödöllő and Csömör HÉV. Passengers, in a perfectly understandable way, demand cameras, security guards for their own safety. The petition was signed by almost 4,000 passengers. In light of this, the reaction of the MÁV is quite shocking. The railway undertaking is not at all a partner of passengers in solving the problem. [[Attila Mesterházy: Shame!]] They did not reply to the press first, but finally they were forced to respond to questions submitted as requests for data in the public interest. But there was no thank you in that. It turns out that the MÁV doesn't even know about the harassment of its passengers, and on the other hand doesn't promise to reinstate the decommissioned alarms, nor does it promise to deploy the camera system. [[Attila Mesterházy: Amazing!]] All they suggested was that if a passenger was attacked, pull the emergency brake. However, there are several problems with this. One of them is that stopping the train doesn't stop the emergency. Not to mention that sudden high braking can lead to damage to passengers and car failure. It can therefore be seen that the MÁV's response lacks not only compassion and problem-solving intentions, but it is not technically acceptable either. We need a real solution, and perhaps we agree that passenger safety cannot be a question of money. So I ask Mr Secretary of State how you intend to protect the passengers of the HÉV from the systematic harassment. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2021-02-15-193	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-194	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I know that my words do not change what has happened, but allow me to express my sympathy here too for the victims of the acts that have been suffered within the framework of Community transport. By the way, the MÁV and the HÉV have tried to make every effort in recent years to ensure that its operation is continuous and secure, including the MÁV and the MÁV Group HÉV tried to do everything possible to ensure the security of both personal and property for passengers. The congresswoman asked the question as to what the real solution was. There is not one solution; there is one where the living force, i.e. the regular presence of the police, is where the camera is, and there is other equipment installed on the fittings themselves. By the way, I'm just saying, in the light of professional concerns, in the final case, and if there's nothing else, it's a way to pull the emergency brake. Far from being the best, far from being the only, and far from being the savior. This is a complex task, and not as an excuse, but as a fact that this is not a speciality of Hungarian public transport, all companies in Europe are struggling with different data from country to country. I have to say, in Hungary and now I do not want to go into the number war, the police have other data, the MÁV has different data, and the journalist is different from, say, Western Europe, it is not a consolation to the victims, but it is actually a lower number than the European average. Where possible, we have already taken action. If you don't mind, I'll be back in a minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-195	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-02-15-196	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It is important to show compassion for those in this lousy situation. Let us not forget that this has increased significantly during the coronal virus epidemic, so that was a surprising response to me as well. Obviously, he was talking about a complex solution, and I would like to ask that the authority of the MÁV answer such a rather important question and, on the other hand, take voters seriously, and not so much. provide cooperation-friendly responses. It was certainly important what he said, because he must have sent a message to passengers on his flights with your answer, and it is obvious that these are the people who didn't feel safe even though they said they paid for their tickets and their tickets. Therefore, I ask with respect that, if this is necessary, there should be a consultation on this matter, because I do believe that every single person's life matters. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-02-15-197	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-02-15-198	Thank you very much. In support of my reply, if you will allow me to make some specifics: the MÁV will be able to obtain them in the future, for example, for HÉV trains, the presence of the camera is already seen as part of the public procurement tender. Today there are the technical conditions, which are given to the type of car, some are not, some have cameras, some are not on them, but in the future, tenders are also issued in the same way. [[16.40]] The other is the personal presence. The MÁV has special law enforcement staff; like the German railways, we operate separate railway and HÉV police. The personal presence of these train workers on the train train, in addition to the conductor, I hope it will increase the safety and security of the passengers there as well. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-199	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the hour of immediate questioning. Now we move on to questioning. Dear Parliament, Congressman Tamás Csányi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Do you really believe that you are doing it right? It's an address. Congressman Tamás Csányi has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-200	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The results of the high school entrance exams were evaluated on February 9th by Zoltán Maruzsa. The Deputy Secretary of State for Public Education spoke of similar figures as last year, and it certainly was not by accident that the Hungarian average had not been so weak in ten years, and even the 2012 low score had been reached. Dear Secretary of State, What do you think explains this extraordinarily poor performance? Based on the students' feedback, it was possible to suspect that the Hungarian worksheet had been very difficult already on the weekend of admission. We know that the perception of difficulty is subjective and that a weak set of tasks is not suitable for selection, but this abnormally low average speaks for itself. I taught Hungarian grammar and literature for 20 years, of course, and I know what it's like to prepare 18-year-old students for the big event of their lives, and I really feel what it's like to do the same with elementary school children and Seleburdish children. With all due respect to children, parents and colleagues! Dear fellow Members, Let's not hide the fact that their high school records are getting worse every year. I don't think students, teachers, parents' attitudes have changed that much. However, I believe, Mr Secretary, that you should at last start working and not just pointing backwards. Don't you think, Secretary of State, that if we already have a government commissioner responsible for digital content development, Judit Czunyiné Bertalan, then he should be accountable for what he is doing or not doing? Why don't they finally create a self-educated Ministry of Education with a competent, professional minister, although it will obviously be impossible to solve this among NER partners. Mr. Secretary of State, do you really consider Minister Kasler fit to lead a gigatar like the EMMI? The EPP Jobbik has been demanding the establishment of a responsible and independent Ministry of Education for years, because I think you agree that whoever invests in education builds the future. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-02-15-201	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the question of Mr Rétvári Bence, Secretary of State, will be given. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-202	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I wondered why you didn't mention numbers, honourable Member, allow me to replace the numbers you didn't refer to. He did not refer to it in vain, since they would have refuted the claims he made. Maybe that's the difference between mathematics and poetry, but you seem to prefer the latter. As regards the average score of 8th grade students, the average of previous years is 47.6, compared to the current 47.2. I can't say there's so much difference here, it's only a tenth of the difference. For the 4th graders, 6th graders: 63,2 instead of 63 points, here even slightly higher, but only by tithes; while for the 6th graders there were 58,7 points instead of 56, so the current average is even higher than the previous average. It is clear from this that it is not real at all, at least it cannot be supported by numbers, what you said, honourable Member, in terms of performance and recruitment numbers, but the figures fully confirm what Secretary Maruzsa said at the press conference. We organized these admissions at more than 500 locations by trying to comply with all the rules of the fight against the epidemic, so that, for example, no more than ten persons per classroom could be in the room at the same time. We added a second additional day to the calendar, the traditional additional date, next to January 28th, February 5th, precisely so that the 75,000 students who applied for it would have as much opportunity as possible. On the one hand, so that the exam is not crowded, on the other hand, if someone is accidentally quarantined or otherwise unable to attend the exam, he should not fail to take the exam. In addition, preparation was less difficult for them, as 8th graders and the undergraduates all study in presenceal education. So, honourable Member, I think we should raise our hats in our imagination before the performance of students, who, even in such an extraordinary year, are very close to the average. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We have brought them and we hope that they will be successful in their studies. The teachers, educators, and the schools added what they could. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-203	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Justice a question:, In what form does Hungary participate in the European Union consultation on violence against women? It's an address. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-204	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. You are certainly aware that the European Commission has launched a consultation on violence against women and domestic violence until May. The action will also gather information from the widest possible range of stakeholders, EU citizens and civil society organisations, as well as focus on the areas responsible for equal opportunities, but the Commission will also count on the participation of the governments of the Member States. Unfortunately, the initiative is very timely, as violence against women and children is typically rising in all countries. During the closure of the epidemic, many victims were forced into four walls with their abusers. The gravity of the Hungarian situation is indicated by the fact that not so long ago the National Crisis Management and Information Telephone Service also indicated that the number of people asking for help on the phone doubled before the first wave of the epidemic, and the abuse also became more serious. Although no new data is available, this is certainly just the tip of the iceberg, since not everyone dares ask for help. As a rapporteur for violence against women in the Council of Europe, I am also paying attention to the information campaigns that help those in difficulty in other countries. There are several examples that victims of violence can signal that they are in trouble and need help in hypermarkets or drugstores. Here in Hungary, I do not know about such a campaign, and unfortunately, I do not see any meaningful government intention to help victims. Therefore, I respectfully ask Mr State Secretary how Hungary participates in the European Union consultation on violence against women. What measures does Hungary recommend to the Commission and the Member States in the fight against violence against women? And my third question: which civil society organisations dealing with violence against women do you expect to contribute? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-15-205	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, On behalf of Minister Pál Völner, the Secretary of State will answer your question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Government is committed to combating women and violence against relationships. The effectiveness of the action can be measured, not in ratification of conventions, in consultations, but in the implementation of effective measures. As you know, the National Assembly is 2-2020. He stated in his political statement No.3 that Hungary today pays particular attention to the protection of families, children and women. Their rights are declared by the Fundamental Law. In this spirit, Parliament's legislative work is taking place, and the state's special obligation to act is also the basis for their exceptional situation. In the spirit of zero tolerance, the Hungarian government seeks consistent legislation to ensure that as few women as possible suffer abuse in Hungary. We have tightened Btk. in this area several times since 2010. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is important to stress that the goal is not only to remedy problems, but also to try to prevent phenomena. Since 2010, victim assistance in Hungary has evolved significantly in the field of the Ministry of Justice. On 22 June 2017, the Budapest Center for Victim Assistance opened the first rural centers in Miskolc and Szombathely, using its operational experience, and in 2020 three other centres were handed over to the Ministry of Justice, Pécs, Kecskemét and Szeged. In order to develop victim support centres into national networks, a victim assistance centre will be opened in all counties of Hungary by 2025. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the Commission's information, the opinions gathered during the consultation will be channeled into a legislative initiative announced in the gender equality strategy, which will be expected at the end of this year. [[16.50]] In this regard, however, it should be stressed that Hungary opposes the concept of gender contrary to domestic perception. We also do not support legislative initiatives that would lead to a stealth withdrawal of Member States' competences. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-15-207	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Sebian-Petrovszki, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Who is the Director General of the National Blood Supply Service? It's an address. Mr Sebian-Petrovsk has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-208	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Recently, in the name of DK and DK, we won a public interest data claim lawsuit against the Hungarian State in the first instance, specifically against the National Blood Supply Service. This is not surprising, by the way, because this government has been regularly pretending to hide public data over the past ten years and forcing everyone to sue; we often do. Now, in this particular case, the subject of the lawsuit was the contract that the current Director General of the Country Blood Supply Service, Dr. Andrea Bayerné Matusovits, refused to issue. This contract was concluded in 2016 between the Blood Supply Service and private companies on the conditions under which public blood plasma can be sold and under which conditions it will be sold. This contract was extended to three years by the Director-General in 2019 without a new tender. Given that the price of plasma is rising year after year, this step is at least a cause for suspicion, the concealment of this contract, in particular the fact that the press gave details of the personal, professional and friendly interactions between the leaders of the National Blood Service and the leaders of these winning companies or of certain companies. In addition, the company was bought by a Japanese blood plasma company, we do not know that it is not because this contract may represent significant assets. The interesting thing is, however, how Mrs Director-General justified the non-execution of this treaty in court. He said it was against the business interests of the companies he contracted. You understand, therefore, that she did not act in the interests of the citizens, not of the taxpayers, but in the interests of the contracted companies. I ask the Secretary of State to consider it normal that the head of the Blood Supply Service, appointed by you, does not act to protect the business interests of the Hungarian State, but of the contracted private company, and what they intend to do about it. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-15-209	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I can give you a brief summary of the case: the fact is that in 2007 the then blood supply service management signed a contract for the sale of fresh frozen plasmas that were not used for therapeutic purposes, which is no longer used in the public service in Hungary. In 2007, the company with whom the contract was concluded in 2007 was able to buy this plasma below the official price for a third of it, and in 2017, after this ten-year contract expired, a new tender was launched by the Director-General and the highest price was used to select the contracting party. This means that the higher price we have now achieved is that the Hungarian State, the Blood Supply Service, has an additional HUF 450 million a year in the sale of blood plasma, a sum of nearly half a billion forints. So that's what's been left as a luxury profit for a private company, and now you can't stay at the company, but you have to pay the National Blood Service. Obviously, which lacks this HUF 450 million annual revenue from the company's pocket, it takes every means to frame the person who has created a more favourable contractual arrangement for the state. On the other hand, it is a good question, honourable Member, that you, represented by Csaba Czeglédy's law firm in this case and perhaps in other matters, what to do when you are suing a lawyer who has been convicted of tax evasion, suspended in his chamber membership, and, where appropriate, the court's judgment is addressed to this lawyer's e-mail address; the issue of such documents to a suspended lawyer is either not a good legal question or a good legal dilemma. If you didn't hire a tax fraud to protect the public money through his lawsuits, maybe we'd be in a simpler position and the country would be in a better position. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-15-211	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question, "What does the Government do to combat air pollution?" It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Air pollution is one of Hungary's most serious environmental problems. It causes over 14,000 people to die early each year, and Hungarians lose nearly six months of their lives. This is particularly relevant now, since contaminated air helps to spread the coronal virus. Hungary has been subject to infringement proceedings for many years, and finally, the European Commission has recently concluded in its judgment that the country has failed to meet EU air quality requirements. The concentration of particulate matter in several regions of the country was regularly above the limit, and the government has basically done nothing about it. The national air load reduction programme was virtually nullified at the last step of acceptance. The truly effective instruments have been avoided, and there has not been any significant progress in practice since then. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask what the European Commission's judgment sends you. Are you finally willing to deal with a substantial reduction in air pollution? If so, when and what measures can we expect? When do we finally launch a comprehensive building energy program that will reach the most needy ones? When will free parking be stopped, which only increased traffic? By the way, a lot of people are terrible at this situation, and it takes a lot of circling around the house to finally find their place. My question is also to allow for the introduction of a congestion charge, which would be essential for making Budapest viable. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2021-02-15-213	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will hear the answer to your question from Secretary of State Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-214	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would stress that the procedure underlying the judgment of the European Court of Justice started on account of the excess limits as from 2005. Of course, the Hungarian Government takes note of its provisions and takes appropriate measures. However, it is important to say that improving air quality is a common European challenge, since air pollution and air pollution know no borders. Hungary receives about 30 percent more air pollutants from beyond the border than it does. Hungary's PM10 pollution has improved significantly in recent years. The year 2020 was an outstanding improvement, with no annual overshoot, with a significant reduction in maximum daily overshoots. This result goes far beyond the previous performance of socialist governments. The data also show that the government's actions in the industrial, transport, agricultural and residential sectors have increased air quality every year, thanks to the value of HUF 300 billion. As far as the question of the Budapest congestion charge is concerned, the government believes that this is a bad instrument. It is perhaps not a coincidence that there are two of the European Union's more than 26 capitals: Stockholm and Madrid. We believe that driving by car is not deviant, and that the pursuit of motorists is not a good solution. We support solutions that broaden and enable people to choose freely by making public transport more competitive, for example by creating external road elements, building peripheral bridges, increasing the capacity of P+R and B+R parking lots. So it is clear that air quality is improving in the country, health protection is increasing; I hope that the woman representing this agrees and supports my response. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-15-215	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Office a question:. When do you intend to negotiate with the local authorities on the use of EU funds? It's an address. Mr. Congressman, you have the floor. [[17.00]]
u2021-02-15-216	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you that you have already completed your consultation on the EU's recovery fund with your main partners: Lőrinc Mészáros, László Szíyj and other Fidesz moneymen. Because if they are finished, then it would be time to start coordinating with the local governments representing Hungarian people in order not only for stadiums, but also for hotels, but also for new roads, new medical clinics and direct support to local residents. We know they wouldn't talk to the local governments on their own, they'd like to plow them in, but this ugly European Parliament and that ugly European Council are obliging you, because otherwise Lőrinc Mészáros will not get any money. I ask you not to bring up a letter from Judit Perneki, the former Secretary General of the Association of Hungarian Local Governments, in his reply, because he has not been Secretary General for quite some time. And he doesn't even bring up the summer correspondence with Minister László Palkovics, because that was last summer. The fact is that the country's three largest local government associations have not been invited to discuss anything until today, the Association of Hungarian Local Governments, the Association of Budapest Self-Governments and the National Association of Municipal Local Governments, while you, Honourable Secretary of State, replied to me on 2 February that my question was that local government associations were also directly invited to cooperate. Can I ask you, if I want to follow Muller Cecilia, don't you have a better answer for that? But I wouldn't joke, I wouldn't joke because today was the deadline for municipalities to accept their own budgets. And the only thing they know is how much money you're taking from them. So please, Mr. Secretary of State, answer: when do you really want to sit down with the local governments and discuss the recovery EU fund with the local government associations, at least those I have listed? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-02-15-217	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the question that the Member has just asked will be from State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-218	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Your question was very entertaining because it also identified the answer to which consultation letters should not be listed in response. Allow me to comply with your request, and then I will not list these letters which are otherwise called for consultation. I'll give you the rest. So at the end of December he received an official letter of invitation: leaders of county-righted cities, all county municipalities, the Association of County-righted Cities, the National Association of County Local Governments, the Association of Small Towns, the Association of Climate-friendly Settlements, the Association of Hungarian Municipal and Regional Developments, the National Association of Municipal Local Governments and the Village Association. Plus, Gergely Karácsony also received an additional notification from the Ministry of Finance on 18 January, specifically regarding the resources belonging to it, plus the Council of Budapest Public Developments was continuously consulted, plus from the summer of 2019 planning experts were consulted at around 150 online personal events, 15 000 experts and applicants, plus universities, higher education institutions, curatoriums, chambers, associations, churches received letters of invitation in 500 organizations. 92 of them returned a reply to the Prime Minister's Office with partial technical findings to date. This is what Gergely Christmas and your political allies have not done until today, but the deadline was 31 January, and this deadline has been extended, so we hope that they will be able to squeeze out some kind of professional resolution in the time remaining until the deadline is over. By the way, just to paraphrase your political communication, party-political trenching and blackening of the government is not government. So please take care of your settlements. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-15-219	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Member László Pósán, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister responsible for innovation and technology: It's an address. Mr László Pósán has the floor. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-220	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Over the past year, nearly a dozen higher education institutions have been granted direct ministerial reservations to state trust foundations, and therefore much further away from the daily political decision-making level. Most of these institutions have a clear profile and scope of activity, allowing them to connect directly to closer cooperation with the economic sphere, to display higher added value in Hungary, and to innovate. The left tried to set this up as an attack on university autonomy, not to mention the fact that most of the world's prestigious universities operate in a similar model of maintenance. In January of this year, however, the institutions of the largest Hungarian universities, which have been listed in the international rankings, have rebutted the fears of the left. The Senates of the universities of Debrecen, Pécs and Szeged, which trained in a number of disciplines, decided to change the model for their institutions for the following years, not with any support: 65 yes, zero, and with 3 stays, nearly 96 percent, two thirds of the votes in Pécs and 55 percent of the votes in Szeged. Of course, if we apply the procedure for calculating the progressive left, as they did in Brussels when the Sargentini report was adopted, when the remaining votes were simply ignored, well, in the case of our universities voting for a change of model, the rate of support is higher: in Debrecen 100 percent, in Pécs, not two-thirds, but three-quarters, and in Szeged two-thirds. Dear Secretary of State, We know that the sound political concept of the left is specifically disturbed by the intrusive proximity of facts and reality, and that it tries to ignore them, but for the public, please briefly describe the advantages and opportunities for development of the Hungarian universities for the maintenance of the State Trust Foundation. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-15-221	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the Member's question will be from Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-02-15-222	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The aim of the Hungarian government is to make young Hungarians the winner of the future, and unlike frustrated politicians on the left, university leaders understand and want similar things. That is why they support, as you said, the amendment that we are discussing here. This new form of financing has several advantages. One of these is that institutions can operate more flexibly. They can respond more quickly to the economic needs of their region, so that Hungarian young people can ultimately receive more competitive training and more valuable education in the labour market. This means that you will receive a higher degree in learning at better universities. This results in a better position in life and in the labour market. Honourable Congressman, Allow me also to draw your attention to the fact that we have heard all kinds of alarms from the left about this, that state scholarship training will continue to be provided at model-shifting universities. Teachers are transferred from public employment status to employment, and this will make it more possible to recognise additional performance, which, due to the rigid pay table, is not really open in the past. The government's aim is for universities to play a central role in R &amp; D and innovation. This will also be achieved in the coming years by modernising training courses and creating quality infrastructure, and Hungary can become a regional knowledge centre with the help of universities. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-15-223	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, vice-president of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: What is the government's strategy for graduation exams? It's an address. Vice President Brenner Koloman has the floor. Here you go. [[17.10]]
u2021-02-15-224	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The graduation exam is still, despite the fact that unfortunately it is no longer the prestigious exam and a decisive experience for the young generation as it was a few decades ago, a milestone in the lives of young adults whose good and professional conduct is in the common interest of all of us. I think that this covidous generation, which is about to graduate, deserves our strong support at this rather difficult time. This generation, who, since last spring, has practically been able to prepare for the graduation exam almost continuously online, and according to various surveys and estimates, one fifth or even one third of students have not received the appropriate level of online education that would allow a full, real and good preparation. We still consider it a serious failure of the Fidesz government that while one fifth of teachers on the front line have been infected, teachers are still not included in the vaccination plan in an appropriate and prominent place. In the light of all this, I would like to ask the Secretary of State with all due respect that he is willing to consider the proposals that he formulated with the youth organisations of the other opposition parties on a round table held by the EPP Youth Group; for example, that this year there should be a lighter graduation compared to last year's eased graduation, since the preparation was not perfect, according to what we just said. Students should have the opportunity to graduate at the nearest educational institution. We recommend making all graduation exams free. Or, as we have heard from Prime Minister today, if the numbers are still wrong, will you consider abolishing your oral graduation? I look forward to your substantive reply, Mr. Secretary. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-02-15-225	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The answer to Mr Vice-President's question will be Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-226	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If the government had listened to you on the left, honourable Member, there would have been no more than 80,000 students in the spring, and another 30 thousand would have been in danger of graduation in the fall, and a whole class would have been deprived of the possibility of further education. So, I think these students are also glad that Hungary did not have a government who sees its purpose only in the pissing. In fact, let's not forget that one of your allies, PDSZ, even called for boycotts, and you didn't tell the teachers not to do that, but fortunately the teachers behaved responsibly, the students acted responsibly, and we passed the graduation exams successfully in the spring. The average result of this is broadly equivalent to the average result of the last five years, and the number of repetitions has also decreased by 40 percent, so that every teacher, every student, every school principal, and district head has been recognised as having successfully survived this extraordinary period; perhaps in many other countries of Europe there have not been such good results. As regards the recent information on this year's graduation, as more and more are obviously emerging here, they can be read on the website of the Education Office, in the menu section on the information about the graduation exams. What is very important in the meantime is precisely what you have said, that those who are now graduating can only be prepared for digital education for a long time, that they can go into schools in small groups. Besides, it is part of the final year's prep for graduation, which is why small group consultations are possible, and we encourage all graduates to hold these small group consultations from their graduation course, so that they will be better prepared for graduations. To do this, we will give you all the help and support you can. And with regard to vaccines, if you might not tune people against vaccines, but instead act as pro-vaccinations, this would provide greater security for students, teachers and their parents both during and after the graduation exam. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-15-227	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, We have reached the end of the discussion of the item on the agenda. Now, until the meeting of the Legislative Committee is concluded, I expect a break of 17 hours and 40 minutes. I'll see you at 5:40. (Sunning: 17.15 17.48) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó)
u2021-02-15-228	Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We are now continuing our work with a consolidated debate on the political declaration. In view of the pandemic situation, I would like to ask that the pandemic rules be observed in the Chamber. Thank you very much for your understanding. A joint debate on the proposal for a political declaration on the 30th anniversary of the establishment of the Visegrad Group. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs P/14918. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, On the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the formation of the Visegrad Group, the ambassadors of the Visegrad countries in Budapest were invited to discuss the political declaration to be adopted by the Parliament. Welcome to all the ambassadors in the box of honor. In the debate, I will give the floor first to Mr Zsolt Németh, President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the author of the political declaration, who will give his speech here on the stand. We'll wait until the president's on the stand. Mr President, Before I give the floor, I would like to point out with respect that you have a total time frame of 20 minutes for the opening speech, your speech during the debate and your rejoinder. With that in mind, respectfully, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-229	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Visegrad Ambassador. Today exactly 30 years ago, on the initiative of József Antall, the Visegrád alliance was reborn with the signature of representatives of three countries and four nations. In addition to the Hungarian Prime Minister, Polish President Lech Wałęsa and President Václav Havel signed the Visegrád Treaty. The parliamentary political declaration adopted unanimously by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and submitted to this House is initiated by Poland, which, with the agreement of the four Visegrád Speakers' Conferences, will be chaired by V4. Visegrád cooperation has a well-known history of 685 years. In 1335 in Visegrad, Hungarian King Róbert Károly, Polish King Kázmér Nagy and Czech King János of Luxembourg set out not to pass on the work of the people who live in their countries to Vienna, but to use it for the benefit of their own countries. As a result of their trade, financial and military cooperation, the sovereignty of their countries was strengthened, and they lived in their economic era in the decades that followed. What a familiar situation. Why is that? In seven centuries, Europe's image has changed a lot, but, as we know from the findings of Jenő Szűcs and István Bibó, the geopolitical situation of Central Europe and the cultural and consciousness peculiarities that result from it show a high degree of permanence and a significant similarity in regional comparison. V4 is not an ad hoc association, but an institutional representation of an area with an independent character. Thirty years ago, the main common objective of the Visegrád countries was to exploit a geopolitical turnaround, to achieve independence, freedom and change in the system. After a few months, exactly on 28 June, KGST and on 1 July, we struck the last nails together in the coffin of the Warsaw Treaty. Of course, the common struggle against dictatorship was essential to all of this in the course of the revolutions of 1956, These communist decades have been characterised, despite the ban on power, by the kidnapped West, as Milan Kundera called this region a region of mutual attention, reflection and solidarity between its public and opposition. Today, in 2021, the tasks ahead of us are of a different nature, but they are nothing less important than the overthrow of the communist dictatorship thirty years ago, namely: protecting Europe and traditional European values in the shadow of globalisation. [[17.50]] Interesting, but not by chance, this challenge and vocation has already been published in the text of the Treaty of Visegrád in 1991, and I quote:, We are determined to face the tasks bravely and to do our best to ensure the peace, security and rise of our nations, in line with the traditional European values and main processes. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The protection of traditional European values has not become easier, but, after thirty years, it is not an exaggeration to say that Europe's decline has become a threat today, which we in the Visegrad countries are still bravely confronted with. During the 30 years of cooperation in Visegrád, three well-defined, valid lines of action have been crystallized. We have achieved significant results in these areas, but we face new challenges every day. First of all, V4's honoured task is to build Central Europe. In recent years, it has developed more spectacularly than ever before. Our countries have recognised that without the construction of the North-South transport and energy infrastructure, our region is inoperable. Today, Via Carpatica, the transport corridor connecting the Baltic to the Black and Mediterranean, the implementation of the fast-rail network connecting our capitals and the interconnection of our energy networks are a major task. The International Visegrad Fund, which has increasingly significant financial resources, plays an important role in the human dimensions of the construction in Central Europe, but the Polish-Hungarian mirror institution, the Felczak Fund and Institute should also be mentioned in this area. Although cooperation in Visegrád and cooperation between the three seas and many regional initiatives are not rivals but allies to each other, it is safe to say that V4 is still the engine of building in the Central European region, one of the main priorities of Hungarian foreign policy. Secondly, V4 has been an instrument of European and international interest since the beginning. As the political declaration before us underlines, our cooperation has been a catalyst for our accession to the European Union and NATO. The other day, according to Tony Blinken, the new US Foreign Minister, V4 has increased security in the heart of Europe and beyond in the last thirty years. At the same time, the European Union's East-West division is a new challenge for our countries. Although the Visegrád Four are often accused of being heavily responsible for all this, I am convinced that our cooperation is not intended to deepen this gap, but, on the contrary, to bridge it. The regional approach is not contrary to the objective of European integration. Europe is also a Europe of regions, so cooperation between regions strengthens Europe's unity with the countries of the north, the Baltic and the Balkans. Of course, there are political and principle issues where the question of the constitutional identity of some nations is at stake, including the difference between federalist and nation-state approaches, the future of Europe, migration or numerous social policy issues on the ground of value conservatism typical of the region. In these areas, we want to take the path of mutual respect dialogue and legality. Before both our region and Europe, the fight against the coronal virus epidemic and the re-launching of our economies are on the rise. The Visegrád countries have so far also tested well in their cooperation in the fight against the epidemic. Our countries also have a good chance of applying for international competition to create a new economy based on a digital, green and circular economic perspective. There is no reason why we should not strive for closer regional and European cooperation in these areas. It is no exaggeration to say that the European vision of the Visegráds is today the key to the future of the continent. Thirdly, the V4 have always felt a special responsibility for Europeans outside the borders of the European Union. The European Union's enlargement and neighbourhood policy and our commitment to the Western Balkans and Eastern Europe stem from the belief that the reunification of Europe is an ongoing process, a process that is one of the most important tasks of the European Union in the decades ahead. In this work, the V4 institution, the International Visegrad Fund based in Bratislava, already has significant results. Our aim is to promote the internal and external stability of these European nations by bringing as many and as soon as possible within European structures and, in the meantime, making their approach so predictable that they can feel part of as many European programmes as possible throughout the process. [[18.00]] Let's add that you can't cut the bend, of course, the conditions must be met, and this applies exponentially to guaranteeing fundamental human and minority rights. For these three lines of action, the flexibility of cooperation can be seen as the main guarantee of the success of V4. The operation of V4 is based on simple principles, is not over-organised, we work together where there is a clear common intention to do so. What doesn't work, you don't have to push, but where the grass grows, it's worth watering. These considerations include the fact that the recognition of Polish leadership within the V4 is not the subject of discussion. The parliamentary dimension of cooperation is integral to the logic of the functioning of the V4 at both the Speaker's and the Commission's levels. A good example of this is the Parliament's political statement before us. It is refreshing that, despite recent external criticisms, there is quite a broad consensus on regional and party policy cooperation in Visegrád. We Hungarians are also the political parties of the Hungarian Parliament. Of course, there are differences in our approach, there have been ups and downs in the last 30 years, but most importantly, we regard V4 as a value, which we do not want to sacrifice on the altar of party political battles, well, this is widely accepted by Hungarian political parties. I trust that this will not change during the election year ahead of us. Maybe they won't mind if I finish my expozee by saying that the V4 objectives can only be achieved together. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-15-230	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would also like to thank you for your speech and to inform you that you will have a total time frame of 7 minutes and 35 seconds for the speech and rejoinder during the debate. I now respectfully ask Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State, on behalf of the Government, that he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Ambassador, The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade welcomes and fully supports the draft Parliament's resolution on the 30th anniversary of the launch of cooperation in Visegrád. Visegrád cooperation is one of the cornerstones of Hungarian foreign policy, strengthening Central European cooperation is a strategic interest that must go beyond internal political debates. The decision commemorates a major event, the signing of the Visegrád Cooperation Declaration on 15 February 1991, which was a historic step forward in the life of the region. So we are proud to look back on the wise, courageous and forward-looking decision in which József Antall, then Hungarian Prime Minister, played a key and proactive role. At the launch of friendly cooperation to support democratic and market economy transformation and EU and NATO integration, the Hungarian, Czechoslovak and Polish leaders of the time probably did not even know how long-standing an alliance was established in Visegrad 30 years ago today. The main common goal of the founders, NATO and EU accession, has become a reality by 2004, but the cooperation of the Visegrád Four has not only continued but also intensified and deepened. In this way, the name Visegrad is not only a popular Hungarian city hosting the 1335 King's Meeting, but also an alliance that has become a symbol of good neighbourliness, a foreign policy success story and a global brand in three decades. Due to the celebration of the anniversary, it is worth recalling what makes the four of Visegrád's cooperation successful. Above all, we must highlight the historical community of fate, cultural proximity and similar value world, which is also the intellectual basis for cooperation. From a pragmatic point of view, the similarity of our security, political and economic interests and the recognition that our countries together can represent their interests in the European Union more effectively than individually. The third key to success is the more flexible, bureaucratic nature of cooperation, adapted to current needs. Where we agree, we move together, but we also respect our differences in national positions. I think this attitude is exemplary in the world of international cooperation. Within the EU, Central European cooperation has brought tangible benefits to its citizens in areas such as increasing EU funds for our country, Schengen accession, free movement and trade. It is also a similar result that in the biggest crisis in the European Union so far, in the migration crisis, the Visegrád Four have acted together to protect borders and stop migration, and we have served the security and protection of all Europe, which is already recognised throughout Europe, even if it is not customary to say so openly. We have also done a lot in recent years to improve regional infrastructure, and a good example of this is the creation of a fast-rail link between the Visegrád four in preparation. We have also launched successful joint innovation and research projects and it is essential to support each other in terms of digital challenges and sustainability objectives. The Visegrád Four's key task is to support the enlargement of the European Union in the Western Balkans and its cooperation with the Eastern European countries, as it is a guarantee of stability in our region. Thanks to the V4, the visibility of Central Europe has also increased globally, and we have established partnerships with many countries from Israel to Japan in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, The balance of the last 30 years has been clearly positive, and the Visegrád region has increased in political and economic terms. We are active shapers of the continent's future, ready to cooperate with each other and with all other interested partners on the basis of mutual respect. Our economic growth has been above the EU average for many years, we manage disciplinedly, and we have high employment. The Visegrád region is Germany's most important trading partner, so we also make a significant and spectacular contribution to Europe's economic strength. Although we remember the past today, cooperation in Visegrád is a real future initiative. Our successes so far make it possible, and the many challenges facing Europe today make it our duty to help Central Europe, together, in cooperation with our traditional Visegrád values, for the next 30 years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-15-232	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that you have not taken full advantage of the ten-minute time frame available, and you still have four minutes and 20 seconds to speak during the debate. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will now be presented. I now give the floor to Mrs Márta Mátrai, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee. Here you go, ma'am. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Ambassador, I would like to inform you that today, at its meeting on 15 February 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the 30th anniversary of the establishment of the Visegrad Group, T/14918. Proposal for a policy statement No 1. [[18.10]] The summary report of the committee is set out in Rule 82 of the House Rules. pursuant to Rule 36 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted unanimously by 36 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It was established on 15 February 1991, but it is now XIV. Visegrád cooperation, which looks back on the roots of the century, plays a decisive and indisputable role in strengthening relations between the four participating countries, as well as in making the four's voice heard well in the European Union. Visegrád cooperation has played a historical role in the integration of Central Europe in the EU, in the strengthening of modern Central European identity and in the enforcement of Central European solidarity. From our geographical and historical community, we have a community of values and interests, which has led us together to tackle the crucial challenges of economic migration, and we can stand together in Brussels when it comes to either the freedom to choose values or the fair distribution of EU funds. Central Europe, especially V4, has become Europe's fastest growing region in recent years, and we also have every hope of being the first to emerge from the Crown Virus crisis. On the proposal of the President-in-Office of the Visegrad Group's Polish Presidency, the President of Parliament and the Committee on Foreign Affairs initiated the 30th anniversary of the P/14918. The adoption of a political declaration No 30, which commemorates the past 30 years in a dignified manner, but also looks at the next 30 years with the courage. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for listening, and I would ask you to support the political statement. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-234	Thank you very much, ma'am. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 10-10 minutes and the independent representatives have 2 minutes in total. During the discussion, any two-minute comments should be included in the duration. I'll ask if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Congressman Richard Hörcsik. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-235	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ambassador Lords! Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard, it has been three decades since Prime Minister József Antall, who won the free elections closing the communist party state, started this cooperation with the Presidents of Poland and Czechoslovakia. Even today, after 30 years, this cooperation, the alliance between the Central European countries, is kind to our hearts for a better purpose. Let us not forget that this is a foreign policy basis that every country seeks allies for its own well-conceived interests. I would like to remind my fellow Members that, as a result of some peace treaties closing the world wars, a number of conflicts have been encoded in the relations between European countries. Our goal is to transcend this past, especially here in Central Europe. We now see in the EU that, for example, the Scandinavian states are natural allies to each other, the parliaments of Benelux states acting together, and there is also a specific link between the Baltic States, and all within the legal framework of the European Union. We can also see that, when developing cooperation within the EU, historical aspects have been seriously affected. From this point of view, the Visegrád Group is unicable, as we have heard, prior to the King's meeting in 1335. I believe, Mr President, that this is still a goal today, which was hundreds of years ago, to continue working on this cooperation. And I believe that our goals are common, only in changed historical circumstances, because the Central European countries achieved their goal at the time of accession in 2004. It was then agreed that we would be preparing for a longer-term cooperation, such as fighting for the common agricultural policy, the Structural and Cohesion Funds, the common foreign and security policy in the European Union, and the functioning of the Schengen system. Mr President, Today we see that our more than a decade of cooperation in the European Union has proved to be an excellent cooperation, as our heads of government meet each other not only in the capitals but also in Brussels, and the institutionalised form of cooperation, the Visegrad Fund, serves important cultural and educational purposes. And here is the parliamentary dimension, where the Speakers constantly exchange ideas. And the dialogue between the committees has also started. I am referring to the names of Pöstyén, Poprad, Warsaw, Krakow, Velehrad, Prague, Budapest, Hernádvécse and Sárospatak, only a few of the settlements where we have actually achieved results in the joint committee meetings on the common issues that concern us. Mr President, I believe it is true that the Visegrád Four have become a good brand name in the European Union. I have long been convinced that cooperation in Visegrád is, in fact, the real recognition that we Central Europeans can have special common interests. How can this Central European character be grasped? Perhaps in the years behind the Iron Curtain and their material and spiritual consequences? Any particular cultural features? In the roots of our spoken languages? I believe that an essay would not be enough to answer that. But just a few words: civil revolutions, civilization, individual freedoms, independence and sovereignty against alien oppressors. If we want to determine what Visegrád Group membership is about, it is now easy to say that it is about real Europeanism, the real preservation of European values, as President Zsolt Németh said. In the case of our country, this is particularly obvious, since we have often protected states from serious dangers that lie further west of us. And it is a serious lesson for us that no one else will fight for aid to the Visegrádians, and the roads and railways connecting our countries will be built only by us. Honourable Congressman, This statement, which we are adopting today, confirms that the Visegrád Group is one of the most important forums of interest for our countries, where we can say what we think is right and what is appropriate for Europe. It is important what we decide and how we reach this decision. The V4 meetings are the real reconciliation of interests, the forums for real consultation, where there is no other option but to influence the orientation by means of fairness. Now, Mr President, on the 30th anniversary, it is our duty to preserve and make visible this treasure, which is the Visegrád cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps it is no exaggeration to say that the existence and success of the Visegrád group is a national matter. In view of this, I ask the Parliament, on behalf of the Fidesz Group, to support the adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Bravo! A round of applause from the ruling parties. It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2021-02-15-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! On behalf of the Jobbik Group, Mr Róbert Dudás applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[18.20]]
u2021-02-15-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Ambassador, Historical step, knowledge and respect of historical events. Somehow, this is how what happened on 15 February 1991 could be summarized, that the V4 was formed, with the participation of three other countries, and later expanded and won the final form of the Visegrád cooperation. There have already been historical reflections in a number of comments, and I do not want to repeat them, but I would also briefly look back on one aspect and one approach. In 1335 it was Róbert Károly, like József Antall, who also called to Visegrád the kings with whom they formed a joint economic cooperation that became a leading group in the region for a long, long time and had a strong economic performance. From this, let us be honest, we are far away today, but this cannot mean that we should not, by the way, maintain this cooperation, and do not do everything we can to make V4 stronger and stronger, that countries that are involved and working together in this cooperation should become stronger and stronger. However, while it was created against something in 1335, obviously for some reason, but against something, since these kings established cooperation against Vienna's right to stop goods, to strengthen their country, not against something in 1991, and I would like to state this, this will be very important for all participants in the future, not against something the V4 was created, but for some reason. This parallel is the key, I think, from which we have to assume that although this agreement was established in 1991 on the basis of a historical fact, but until it was against something and for some reason, it was created in 1991 only for something, in order to work together for our countries. Let's be honest, there's a lot more to do. Over the last few minutes, in a short half hour, a number of things have been said about what to do in front of the V4 countries. I do not want to repeat them either, but there is one very important thing left out, and this is definitely something that needs to be done here. Let us be honest: the question is what interests national parliaments and what interests the people and citizens of the nation, and this has not yet been discussed, and that is to catch up with Central Europe. Let us close the wages in Central Europe, close the standard of living for the people of Central Europe in order to actually bring them the prosperity that the founding presidents and prime ministers formulated on 15 February 1991. That's what has to be a priority. Let us not build chasms, but bridges, because this will lead us to our goals, because although we are actually talking about increased cooperation over the last decades, there is still plenty of potential in this, and it is very important, as the founding fathers of the V4 have recognised, that we can work together to enforce our interests in an appropriate way. On behalf of the EPP Jobbik, we provide this declaration of support, and we also welcome the idea of the founding fathers, by the way, trusting that in the future this cooperation can be established and maintained so that party politics does not prevent it, because it is also a very important aspect of the past period that parties have changed, governments have changed from country to country, but cooperation remains. It is very important that this declaration is made. We are pleased that the Speakers have declared this, and now, through the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Parliament is most likely to accept it. We wish all the bodies involved in this cooperation good health, and we will provide our full support. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-02-15-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. The speaker of the KDNP Group, Mr István Simicskó, is next. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-239	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Ambassador, Ladies and gentlemen, I see that this is a good debate, there is practically no debate, because everyone agrees that this is an excellent political declaration. Therefore, let me thank Zsolt Németh, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and all the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs for writing, drafting and submitting to this House. Let me also thank the Speakers who have really prepared this political statement before us. I think that such decisions are important, and it is important that we commemorate the event 30 years ago in such a worthy manner, because indeed, this 30-year-old has a very serious, extremely changing history. We started from the change of regime, we worked together to set the goals for the Euro-Atlantic integration process, and we came into these situations and into these important international organisations at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, Surely we all know the proverb that is now a little cliché, which says that history is the master of life. Indeed, the known history of mankind proves that if humans and groups are able to cooperate, to form an alliance, to unite, they can be more effective and to achieve more serious goals than if they were to fight, than if they were to work against each other. Many have talked about what happened in November 1335. Indeed, the three serious kings of the time met at Visegrád on the initiative of King Robert Károly. CHAPTER III Polish King János Kázmér, Czech King János Luxembourg and Róbert Károly met basically in order to smooth out possible conflicts and establish political-economic cooperation, a kind of alliance of interests, indeed, as has been said, against Vienna's right to stop goods. Cooperation was successful, these three kings were strengthened, and new trade routes were created in order to strengthen and develop our own economy. This is a concrete fact, a concrete event, but in the past centuries, there have been countless joint actions, a kind of common destiny for these four peoples to live together and in one another. On 15 February 1991, our peoples reunited, and it is indeed a kind of a special celebration, that we understood the call of history, understood the importance of interdependence, and went beyond supposed or real contradictions to achieve common friendship and common goals. I think it is a great thing for all nations to feel and recognize the significance of this. I myself, as former Minister of Defence, wanted to establish an excellent relationship with the V4 Defense Ministers. It worked, and we worked well together. This is what we see now, that yes, it is important for the Poles, the Czechs and the Slovaks, as well as for us Hungarians, to cooperate, to agree on all important issues. I think this is the right way, this is the right way: to recognize the XXI. The challenges of the century and the recognition of our responsibility, as it is up to us how we can further increase and enrich this community, this value-based alliance, which is obviously based on interests. This is our generation, our generation's responsibility. We, the KDNP Group, are trying to support this declaration and fill it with all the important, essential content that can enrich the friendship and cooperation of our peoples. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, let me conclude by saying that you may fit in, and perhaps in the late hours of the evening this one minute does not matter much, that if someone is committed to the V4 cooperation, I am personally, because, judging by my name, perhaps everyone can see that powerful Slavic influences are taking place. I'm not saying I'm the V4 myself, but I'm sure seeing my ancestors makes me see a clear community of interest. So it is a joy to see that indeed, these four countries, these four peoples, can work more and more closely together on many issues. So believe me, if I can play a specific ambassadorial role, I will continue to do so as a KDNP fractional leader in the future. I think we do not have to have too much debate here, because there are quite a few of us in this region and in this political position to support the strengthening and growth of the Visegrád countries. Ladies and gentlemen, Polish people, Czechs, Slovaks, Hungarians have a similar spirit, a similar historical past, a common fate, common values, and we obviously recognized what we had to recognize, the mission of cooperation between the Central European peoples, our mission, our responsibility. [[18.30]] We want to continue to support, enrich and set an example for other regions of Europe, for cooperation from other countries. I believe that this can mean the future of the survival of nations; this can mean that Europe will be stronger if it is made up of strong nation states that have mutual respect for one another, help one another, understand one another, and put aside any misunderstandings and contradictions accumulated over the centuries. In this we can set an example for other peoples, so we strongly support the adoption of the political declaration. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-15-240	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member Mrs Gurmai Zita of the MSZP Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-02-15-241	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ambassador Lords! Ladies and gentlemen, It's rare for a politician to know here that what he's about to talk about is historic. I am in this fortunate position, because the cooperation of the Visegrád countries has stood the test of time, and I am talking not only about the last thirty years. At the time of the 1335 Visegrád King's meeting, perhaps even King Robert Charles and the Czech and Polish rulers did not think that their descendants would continue their diplomatic work in 700 years' time. It cannot be a coincidence that the idea of cooperation came first in us Hungarians. The Hungarians trapped between the German and the Slavic bloc needed allies then and now. The leaders of the Visegrád countries rightly recognized that we have a common destiny here in Central Europe, and that our cooperation improves the effectiveness of our countries' interests, thus fulfilling the historic mission of cooperation. The alliance in the Middle Ages was reborn in the Visegrád Declaration signed thirty years ago and has been a clear success story ever since. The reputation and recognition of the V4 brand has also increased globally. There is nothing more significant than the fact that Ned Price, United States Foreign Affairs spokesperson, congratulated the cooperating countries in a communication. The American diplomat acknowledged that since its establishment in 1991 V4 cooperation has strengthened the common voice of the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia on important regional issues. I also consider it a forward-looking statement that the United States is awaiting dialogue with the Visegrád Group in order to address common challenges. This alliance has, from its establishment to this day, enjoyed clear and complete support from the respective governing parties and opposition parties in all four countries. Today, this is almost the only foreign policy area that has a complete consensus on the part of government and opposition parties. This does not issue a good certificate of Hungarian domestic political relations, but let us look at the positive side of things: at least in this area there is complete agreement. We can say that the V4 alliance is a success story over parties. Perhaps that is why it is not necessarily fortunate that the statement that we are about to receive is accompanied by an actual political message for a sentence. Let's admit this to a human weakness that time will wash away. However, we are firmly convinced, and I can say this on behalf of the whole MSZP, that cooperation between the Visegrád countries often lasts for 30 years, which is why we believe it is important that the text of the declaration is not about daily events and not about active policy efforts. Let this moment be a worthy commemoration of the beginning of the newest cooperation in Central European countries. Today all four countries, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia and the Czech Republic are both members of NATO and the European Union. The Western orientation is a guarantee of the more than a thousand years of domestic ambition that has been an integral part of Hungarian diplomacy since King St. Stephen. Therefore, we must ensure that the cooperation of these four countries serves to protect the common interests of our region, not to build an alternative to European integration. The performance of the last thirty years has been extremely commendable, and this is also part of the parliamentary dimension. Thank you, President Zsolt Németh, for your involvement in this. I would also like to highlight the successful and successful work of the Polish Presidency, which it has done in the difficult circumstances caused by the epidemic, with great decency. From July 2021, there will be a Hungarian Presidency, which will continue to build further successful cooperation in the coming decades. Difficulties and challenges are great, but there are solid foundations. The Parliamentary Declaration proposed by the Polish Presidency is a worthy commemoration on the occasion of a 30-year birthday, which we support. Thank you for listening.
u2021-02-15-242	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the LMP Group is Mr Péter Ungár. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-02-15-243	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, This statement is supported by the LMP faction. At the same time, I would like to mention one thing, and this is that, according to my historical studies, this region has always suffered if German and Russian imperial interests have either divided or mutually attacked this region. This is reflected in the historical experience of the four nations. This is why it is very important that the Polish Government, which is the political rival or opponent of this side, and the political ally of your side, says a lot of things, however, in relation to Russia that you should accept, since it is already about the cooperation and geopolitical alliance of the V4s. The former Polish Foreign Minister of the PO said that the Nord Stream II. gas pipeline to Molotov-Ribbentrop pipeline. The current Polish leadership, at the highest level, at the head of state level, said that Russia is not a state in which you can be trusted, which represents the same democratic values as the Euroatlantic community, and that the policy against Nord Stream II is continued by the Polish government, which is allied with you. We think you're doing the right thing. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs failed to obtain a meaningful response to the question of the position of the Hungarian Government on Nord Stream II and Russian Imperial Policy, and to support the Allied Polish Government. I would ask you to agree with this Polish government on Russia and to support them so that Russian and German imperial efforts do not endanger this region, even if you think that Hungary will benefit from this business, because our historical experience, our regional experience, shows that this cannot happen. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-15-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Andrea Varga-Damm's speech follows. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[For signal:]] I'll wait for him to put his microphone on. [[It's happening.]] Yeah. Please start time from here, because you only have two minutes. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Ambassador, February 15, 1991, the Visegrád group will be formed. This Visegrád meeting and the formation of the Visegrád group, the reason for the establishment of the Visegrád convention, is a medieval agreement that was in the Royal Palace of Visegrad in 1335 when a meeting was held at the initiative of King Róbert Károly III. With the participation of Polish Kázmer and Czech King John of Luxembourg. The purpose of the meeting of the three countries was to smooth out their differences and to agree economic and political cooperation against Vienna's right to stop goods. This cooperation was so successful that the economy of the three kingdoms at that age was flourishing. Our historical roots, our similar turns of fate for these four nations are now the 21st. It should mean harmonising common interests and common goals for the development of our societies. In addition to cooperation in Visegrád, these four peoples are jointly members of the European Union and NATO. [[18.40]] I welcome the political statement. I am pleased that its wording is not based on the self-gratification of the governments of the countries, but rather on emphasising the common values achieved. Of course, I will vote in favour of this great anniversary for the declaration, and I wish to our people that they will find the common voice with which we can cooperate here in Central Europe, along the lines of values, common interests, for the better and safer future of our people. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-02-15-246	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I respectfully ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. From the KDNP Group, Mrs Hajnalka Juhász asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2021-02-15-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Ambassador, As the chronicles of the day note, in the year 1335 of the Lord around the feast of St. Martin, these kings decided that if any of them or their countries were attacked by any enemy, the others would be obliged to come to their aid, and this was confirmed by a great oath among themselves. Annex XIV is replaced by the following: One of the most important diplomatic events of the century in Eastern Central Europe was the meeting held in Visegrad in 1335, which was the XX. One of the foundations for the development of regionalism in the century. As József Antall said at the Prague Summit in 1992, we are joined for the first time by historical tradition, good and bad memories, and for the second time by the geographical link, which also offers economic cooperation, the third thing that connects us, the Euroatlantic security system, which we absolutely need. Finally, the fourth is a practical question: we are sitting together in the European Community's dental hall. József Antall saw the history of the peoples living in the valley of the Danube, the Carpathian Basin, in a broad horizon, and believed in the symbolic and practical power of cooperation. Many believed that the membership of the four countries into the Euroatlantic Alliance, such as NATO, the EU or the OSCE, had achieved this goal and that the Visegrád configuration would be empty in substance. They couldn't have been more wrong. Today, V4 has become an independent brand. Events in recent years have shown that the V4 countries can act together more effectively in matters affecting them and have a stronger capacity to promote their interests. In fact, thanks to their transatlantic federal status, the V4 countries are basically on a platform on major geopolitical issues. The V4 per capita real GDP growth rate in recent years has far exceeded not only the EU average but also the EU's four largest economies. In 2020, the V4 countries experienced on average less real GDP downturn during the coronal virus epidemic than the EU's four largest economies. What does V4's message tell us? It means that a people, a nation, has a future who knows where it came from and where it's going and feels the power of unity. We can be proud to be one of the founders and key members of Europe's regional value community. The regional cooperation launched by V4 has now become an unquestionable symbol and has evolved into a political factor that will shape the future of the European Union. It is the voice of all those who lay hands on each other on the basis of common roots and common values. Thank you and thank you for the alliance that came to life nearly seven hundred years ago. I call on my fellow Members to support the adoption of the political declaration before us. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-248	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to ask Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State, that he wishes to speak in the light of the remaining time limits. [[For signal:]] Here you go. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, My fellow Member, Péter Ungár, said that he could not interpret the reply of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Northern Stream II. for the construction of the building. I would help Mr. Congressman understand our response and the situation. If the Member looks back on the last ten years, then our actions clearly show what our position is. As regards the purchase of gas and the security of gas supply in Hungary, if you only think and consider what we have done about the LNG terminal in Croatia or in order to reach Azerbaijani gas, these are two recent events, then it is clear and clear that we want to obtain gas safely in Hungary, and I believe that this is our main endeavour to understand the Hungarian people in Hungary. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-250	Thank you very much. I ask my fellow Members who else would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Mr Zoltán Varga from the DK Group has applied. Here you go. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Wrong. Zoltán Varga says no. Interjection: The button is pressed!]] I apologize. He showed up on my monitor. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: He is voting!]] Thank you very much. I would therefore like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I will now ask President Zsolt Németh, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I will inform you, as I have already said, Mr President, your time frame is 7 minutes 35 seconds. Here you go. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-251	[[No sound.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Can you hear it?
u2021-02-15-252	Please give the voice to President Zsolt Németh. Thank you. I want to count the time from here.
u2021-02-15-253	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Indeed, today the Visegrád Treaty was signed 30 years ago, and the commemoration started in the last few weeks in a very worthy manner. I believe that the adoption of this Parliamentary political declaration is a good fit in this process. In January the Speakers held a meeting, last week the Presidents of our countries met, this week the Prime Ministers will meet, in the coming weeks there will be further ministerial or parliamentary meetings. It is important that we celebrate such an event and how we celebrate it, and I believe that this debate is also very worthy of commemoration and celebration, since there have been arguments, approaches, emphasis that complement each other well and that it is possible to engage in meaningful dialogue on an important issue in the Hungarian Parliament. I think that's quite a bit. István Simicskó, Head of the Group, used these words that cooperation in Visegrád has a mission, and I have to agree with it. Thirty years ago, he had a mission, and perhaps the most important and simple wording could be the successful conduct of the system change, the creation and protection of our independence, our freedom. Of course, I would like to say to Congressman Dudás here that this may have been a positive commitment, but it also had a negative aspect, because it had to go beyond decades of communism, and it was a common image of the Hungarian democratic public opinion, the opposition could also mention official, semi-official, literary oppositions, but there was solidarity in our societies, a focus, a reflection on each other during the decades of communism, not to mention the commitment and support shown to each other during the revolutions. I believe that there is still a mission for cooperation in Visegrád today. If I would like to put this very simply, let us say bravely that there are very serious problems in Europe today, and I believe that the protection of traditional European values is the most accurate and precise common mission that links the representatives of the four nations. The lines of action as this commitment appears, however, are very practical. The process of construction in Central Europe, the construction of the North-South infrastructure in Central Europe, I must say that there is a serious challenge with very serious financial implications. [[18.50]] But as new trade routes had to be opened in 1335 to the north and south, and Vienna had to be replaced with Košice, the Via Carpatia will also pass through Košice, the North-South Trade and Transport Corridor that will lead from the Baltic Sea to the Mediterranean and the Black Sea. Hungary, I report, is doing very well in this work, as we will be the first country to open the motorway section of our car next year for the whole of Via Carpatia. Or, in addition to building in Central Europe, I could mention our other important course of action, which is the issue of European and Atlantic interest enforcement. We also have some rather serious tasks here, and we have only seen in the summer that the Prime Ministers of Visegrád, in particular the Hungarian and Polish prime ministers, have had a serious struggle to adopt the reconstruction fund and the EU budget. And in the coming years, we will also have the task of supporting our neighbourhood, the countries affected by enlargement, as the objective of further reunification in Europe. If we don't do this, someone else won't do this job for us. So there is a very important mission of cooperation in Visegrád. I welcome the political consensus that has been reached around this declaration. I have not experienced an actual policy sentence in the statement before us, nor have I found any actual policy sentence in it. At the same time, I think it is important for us to maintain this consensus in the coming years, especially because we are looking at an election year, and Hungary will take over the Visegrád presidential tasks from summer onwards in this election year. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying that the very important aspect of the success of the cooperation in Visegrád is that it does not consist of politicians with too much sense of mission, but is a pragmatic cooperation, and we work together where possible. I would like to point out to Mr Péter Ungár: where there is a willingness to cooperate, we will cooperate where this is not available or is not available for the time being, and we will not force cooperation there. Visegrád cooperation works from this, and I think it doesn't have to be changed, because it's just as good as it is. Thank you very much for your attention and thank you very much for your support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-15-254	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The decision will take place within the framework of our next item on the agenda. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will have a presence check to verify the functioning of the voting machines. Please press one of your voting machines, now! [[Attendance check.]] 161 Members are present, 38 are absent, so the Parliament has a quorum. Ladies and gentlemen, It's coming in line. P/14918 on the 30th anniversary of the formation of the Visegrad Group Final vote on political declaration No 1. As no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the political statement submitted. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members of Parliament have to vote in favour of the adoption of the political declaration. So I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept P/14918. Political Declaration No 1. [[Several pro-government representatives indicate that your voting machine is not working.]] Please vote. [[Vote. The scoreboard contains 154 votes in favour and 1 abstention.]] Meanwhile, my fellow Members have already indicated that their machine is not working. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] It does not work for a notary; it does not work for Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, who is sitting in his seat. Does it work for Zoltán Kovács? (To be indicated: ) Yes. It does not work for János Halász from the Fidesz Group; for Mr Miklós Soltész, State Secretary, who is also sitting in his seat. That's four, isn't it? (To be indicated: ) Congresswoman Czunyin's computer doesn't work either. Then I'll ask you for some patience. I respectfully ask the technical staff to tell me that this hasn't been revealed in the presence check? [[It's a short break.]] Since the technical staff couldn't give me a clear answer, I'll ask Sándor Farkas what his vote is. [[Sándor Farkas: Yes.]] Yes, thank you. Miklós Soltesz? [[Miklós Soltész: Yes.]] Yeah. János Fisherman's? [[János Halász: Yes.]] Yeah. Victor Vinnai's? [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: Yes.]] Yeah. Judit Czunyin's Bertalan? [[Mrs. Czunyi Dr. Judit Bertalan: Yes.]] Yeah. So that's five. I declare that the Parliament has accepted the political declaration by 154 plus 5 votes in favour, without voting against, with one abstention. Dear Parliament, Allow me to thank the Visegrád Four ambassadors accredited to our country for their personal appearance during the debate and decision of the political declaration on the 30th anniversary of the formation of the Visegrád Group. We wish you all the best. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. In line with our agreed agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations that have been made today. Z. Kárpát Dániel, representative of Jobbik, is I/14954. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament's response to the interpellation by 111 votes in favour... must be added to this by the Members who are now applying. So, Congressman János Halász? [[János Halász: Yes.]] Yeah, vote. Congresswoman Judit Czunyiné Bertalan? [[Mrs. Czunyi Dr. Judit Bertalan: Yes.]] Yeah, vote. Mr. Victor Vinnai? [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: Yes.]] Yeah, vote. This is plus three, so by 111 plus 3 votes in favour, 53 against, without abstention, the Parliament accepted the reply to the interpellation. [[19.00]] Member Gergely Arató, representative of DK, is I/14936. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer to the interpellation. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the answer to the interpellation János Halász yes, Bertalan Czunyi yes, Győző Vinnai yes, by 111 plus 3 votes in favour, 52 against, with 1 abstention. Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, is I/14959. No response to interpellation was accepted. I respectfully ask the Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the response to the interpellation by 112 yes plus 3 on-site votes, whose machine did not return, 51 against, with 2 abstentions. Márta Demeter, representative of LMP, is I/14956. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the response to the interpellation by 110 plus 3, i.e. 113 votes in favour, 52 against and 1 abstention. So I've already written in three votes that weren't recorded by the machine. Congressman Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, is I/14757. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the response to the interpellation by 112 plus 3, i.e. 115 votes in favour, 51 against, with 2 abstentions. Mr László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, is I/14952. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the response to the interpellation by 112 plus 3, i.e. 115 votes in favour, 52 against, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. We're taking a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Several Members leave the Chamber.]] Fellow Members! We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát from the Jobbik Group applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-255	Mr President, Dear House, Demographic data for last year were also published in the gloomy, crowned months, and we have to say that, despite all the attempts of the government propaganda in Hungary and unfortunately, the demographic winter continues. To mention a known anderism: conditions reminiscent of sinking Atlantis prevail in Hungary, as the fall in the number of live births can be stopped for a year, and then another fall follows the process. Back in 1980, almost 150,000 children were born in Hungary, and by 1990 this number fell to 125,000, and unfortunately it reached below 100,000 in the turn of the millennium, and we also see that by 2011 the number of the lowest living births, a figure of 88,000, had fallen. Fortunately, until 2016, as in all the countries in the region, this process called replacement pushed the fertility rate back to the level However, since 2016 the birth rate has decreased every year compared to the previous year. Fortunately, last year is an exception, since a successful design, like the baby shower now, is able to push a little for a year or so at this number. There have been two such occasions in the last ten years. At the same time, we see that last year's birth rate is still much lower than 2016. Therefore, government propaganda, which seeks to suggest some kind of demographic change, simply does not meet with reality. We also see that by the middle of the century, according to the number of current live births, this will be a country of 6.5 million. Let's get on with this idea, which is based on statistical, not opposition accusations. According to today's live birth number, Hungary will be a country of 6.5 million. Our shared responsibility is to change all of this, and we have just seen that this change does not work with family policy so far. We also see that, without a doubt, on a GDP basis and weighing it up, the amount of family support is higher than in previous periods, and I think that is a good thing, and this must be recognised. What is shocking, though, is that despite the relatively more resources that have come to this point, there is still a raging situation and there is no way of achieving any systemic results with that kind of money. That is why we see that the Hungarian National Bank itself is lying about the government's success propaganda, because in the study before me, the author, Emese Kreiszné Hudák a What is required for demographic change? in his work on "The Fertility Rate" literally shows a decline compared to those countries that spend similar amounts on family support, and this proves the government's chemically neoliberal economic and family policy failure. The fact that they offer discounts for the purchase of new-built residential parks and typically support the more fortunate ones leaves millions of our countrymen on the side of the road who have family policy goals and children's goals. Not only am I talking about evicted people, but I am talking about young people who are forced to pay brutally high rent prices, Hungarians who are forced to rent and cannot get out, all those who have clear and meaningful family policy goals and family goals. We also see a steady decline in the number of women of childbearing age, and in the last four to five years, this government has missed a huge last opportunity, since the large number of age groups born in the second half of the 1970s are the last ones that could bring about some kind of demographic retention, and this age group is just beginning to leave the parenting age. I have studied the book Our Future for the Child with great attention, a demographic miracle of this work. Typically, KDNP experts and national thinkers wrote this book, and I was most surprised to find in it ten proposals proposed by these good professionals, but Fidesz and KDNP did not submit them to Parliament. [[19.10]] That is why I have taken one of these proposals, which is about support for baby showers that can be proven successful, and which brings a pointless age limit to this system, because precisely this large number of age groups would now be able to realize this as a discount. That is why I am submitting a proposal that, in the case of baby shower support, this pointless restriction, which was intended only to save money, will be removed; and I expect the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP to support this proposal in the form that their own experts have put on paper. This is a guarantee of Hungarian survival, it is mandatory to support it, not simply to support it would be treason. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-02-15-256	Ladies and gentlemen, The next speaker was Lóránt Keresztes, group leader of the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-257	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I have now made it a tradition to talk about the problems of my narrower country, Pécs and Baranya County after the meeting of the Parliament, and I will also keep this tradition in the spring session of the Parliament. And unfortunately, I have to say that there are at least some serious problems that are justified here in front of the Parliament's public opinion. One of the issues I have to mention in this speech is that the government's numerous austerity policy has practically pushed local governments to the edge of their ability to function, and the devastating effect in an area that is already extremely difficult in the economy, such as Pécs and Baranya. On the other hand, it should also be said that the fraudulent process that the government is lying about modeling is the outsourcing of universities, and contrary to previous government communication, this process has reached the universities of Pécs and the University of Pécs. Well, so we can say that, in recent times, despite the fact that the prime bastions of defense are the municipalities, the government, instead of giving them all the opportunity and all the resources to carry out their increased tasks, has made their operation more difficult instead, and now it is practically putting them on the brink of working ability to implement the latest Parragh proposal. Let us look specifically at what the restrictions meant in the case of Pécs and what the coronal virus crisis or the emerging economic crisis meant. In the year 2020 alone, Pécs reported a HUF 3.7 billion revenue loss on the one hand, the epidemic and, on the other, a series of government withdrawals. This is estimated to be HUF 5.1 billion in 2021. The withdrawal of the car tax in one year will amount to 450 million in the case of Pécs, the municipality will have to give up 51 million HUF in the case of Komló, 27 million in the case of Kozármisleny and the line will continue. We are talking about a very serious loss for all settlements in the vicinity of Pécs. It is also significant in the context of the change in legislation relating to the public utility tax, which is a loss of nearly HUF 80 million to the municipality, and similarly, the financing of public transport is a huge problem and a huge loss of revenue, so that the government will practically withdraw from this at a time of crisis when the revenues of public transport are already falling. This is totally unacceptable. We can tell you that when the government affects cities with such restrictions, it directly attacks people living in Pécs, Komlón, Kozármisleny and all of Baranya County, and damages these people. This is unacceptable. It can be seen that this huge austerity package, which the government has extended in the case of Pécs and Baranya, directly endangers the provision of the most important public services for people, such as public transport, the provision of drinking water, the provision of public lighting and all the tasks in which the municipality plays a key role. This must be prevented by all our means, it is the duty of the government, it is the duty of the State to provide the municipalities with the resources necessary to enable them to carry out the task of defence in such a difficult situation and to maintain basic services. And it's a very serious problem, a serious attack on higher education, what the government calls a model change. Let it be clear that there are no technical aspects and that the intention to develop is not the result of the process, which the government is now doing as a dictatorship. What is happening here is that universities, university assets, university real estate, and the entire university decision-making process are organised into virtually private foundations, and the leaders and curators of these foundations are appointed by the government. These curators are uninvitable, they are able to make virtually all decisions, so we can say that we do not have to fear that the autonomy of the university is being violated here, and it must be said that this is about the destruction of university autonomy in the process that the government is now carrying out. It is quite amazing and shocking that Péter Hoppál, one of the elected MPs of Pécs, did not speak in this case to this day, expressed his thoughts, did not stand up for university citizenship, and did not demand the guarantees without which a change of model cannot be discussed. This is totally unacceptable. We believe that, together with the local authorities concerned, we should essentially, together with the municipality of Pécs and all the municipalities involved in Baranya County, give all the authority, all the opportunity and all the support to university citizenship in order to prevent this dictatorship and this outrage. We launched a petition locally to protect the autonomy of the University of Pécs. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We ask everyone to support this with their signature, so that we can protect the University of Pécs, because we know that the future of Pécs and the University of Pécs is connected. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-15-258	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-02-15-259	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I have a friend, mayor. He's a mayor with as many votes as no one in the neighborhood in November 2010. Yes, this is Lóránt Budai, mayor of Jászberény. Mayor Lóránt Budai and his team have not only been fighting the government's vendetta since they were elected by the people, but with the coalition of Fidesz-Mi Hungary, as they say on the ground, they also have to fight the anti-Jászberény coalition in order, who are stepping on the edge of the city, with János Pócs, the Fidesz MP of the region. [[Intruder from the benches of Jobbik: Shame!]] We all know that in times of emergency, the mayor of a settlement can make decisions on almost all matters alone, but Lóránt Budai says that no, here a community has been authorized by the inhabitants of the city, the community should decide on the most important issues together. Every year, the most important decision is the budget, which is the basis for a settlement being able to perform its tasks in full. Jászberény, although the mayor is elegant, even though he asks them to decide everything together, Fidesz-Mi Hazank's anti-Jászberény alliance did not afford a comment, a proposal, an opinion. [[Dr. István Apáti: I resent it!]] All they have to do is not vote for it. Of course not, because it would be good for the citizens of the city. But they want the townspeople of Jászberény to be vulnerable to the government's will. As a result of the government's blessed activity, the business tax revenue remained one and a half billion less in the city than in 2019. The withdrawal of the car tax amounts to approximately 150 million minus, and the benefits to small and medium-sized enterprises are expected to result in an additional HUF 500 million loss of revenue. This total is more than HUF 2.1 billion, i.e. one third of the city's planned budget for 2019-20. The previous Fidesz municipality planned the city's budget with a deficit of more than 4 billion. This new municipality has already cut off 1 billion of the deficit by 2020. Just the headlines on the results. The SAO evaluated the work of the mayor's office with a good rating, it was built in a municipal room in the middle of the night, they created quarantine survival movement therapy in the city, under the public works programme, 12,400 meters of channels and trenches, on average, they collected about five containers of garbage each week. 100,000 square meters of the grass and weeds were cleaned, they paved the bridge over Huszár utca, the statue of St. John of Nepomuk on St. Stephen's Boulevard, and the Iranian monument in the court of the mayor's office, and built a pavement in Páfrány utca, in Gerevich Aladár utca. In Alsócsincsapart Street, they did the door-to-door cementing of the family support centre in the Ferences area, planting trees, and tending the sand-thorn plantations, which resulted in the income of four million forints of the town. A new playground, which meets special needs, has been created and the results achieved by the mayor's office led by Lóránt Budai in three months a year. During that time, János Pócs spoke eight times in the National Assembly, begging the government rather than in a determined style. [[19.20]] However, when he falsely accused the municipality of tax increases on 7 December 2020, he was able to be very firm. But despite all the digging, Lóránt Budai and his team swore not to János Pócs, but to serve the Jászberényi. Apparently, they are not broken by petty, cowardly, and envious behavior for demonstrating an anti-Jászberény coalition against them and the population of Jászberény. As the title of my speech, who has faith and commitment, can never be defeated. My friend Lóránt Budai, mayor of Jászberény and the community leading the city successfully will never be defeated in a pure competition, because they have faith and commitment. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2021-02-15-260	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Member László Horváth of the Fidesz Group has applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-261	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, many of us may have missed it, but a national record has been broken, Hungary's current electricity consumption record has been broken due to the marked cooling started on Thursday. I would like to thank all our fellow countrymen working in the energy supply for their sacrifices, and I would also like to thank all the workers of the Mátra power plant for ensuring that the country's electricity supply is undisturbed with additional work, enhanced duty and staff. Thank you for being able to cope with the extraordinary consumption of electricity due to extreme cold, as has already been the case so many times in the past. The Mátra Power Plant is a key player in the Hungarian energy supply. It guarantees the security of energy supply, produces nearly 20 percent of the Hungarian electricity, and is a prominent and irreplaceable employer of the region, since in addition to the 2 thousand people working in the power plant, the Mátra Power Plant provides the livelihood of more than 10 thousand or about 10 thousand families, including the industrial park of the power plant. After several decades last year, the power plant was re-owned by the state. Some parties on the left and some environmental activists from far away demanded immediate closure. [[László Varju intervenes.]] Interestingly, as long as the Mátra Power Plant was German-owned for several decades, no one was disturbed by the use of lignite or CO2 emissions. Yet, because these voices were loud, the Hungarian government decided not to close the power plant but to transform it [[László Varju: Lőrinc Mészáros...]] , and also committed itself, as the power plant is essential for energy supply and it would be difficult to maintain the economic strength and employment structure of the area without the power plant. The goal the government has set is to maintain the ability to produce energy without any environmental pressure. The assets of lignite, which today represents the power plant's operating base, cannot be waived. The only power plant in Hungary is the Mátra Power Plant, which operates on a domestic raw material base. Coal is also part of the strategic wealth that the government has decided on, and should always be accessible in the future, as clean coal technologies are developing rapidly, and in an unexpected situation, the country should be able to operate the power plant even on a lignite basis. The maintenance of the power generation capability can be envisaged in conjunction with transformation, which is why a new generation gas turbine will be installed, which is why solar panels will increase, in such a way that these solar panels will also have energy storage potential. A new energy waste processing process will be launched, which can provide modern thermal energy for the country instead of today's incineration. The Mátra Power Plant will also be a platform for the introduction of coal-based technologies and new technologies, which will allow the production of synthetic fuels and other industrial materials from coal. In addition, new industrial activities and new industrial technologies can be launched at the base of the Mátra Power Plant and its industrial park, but what is at least as important or perhaps even more relevant than what has just been said is the employment issue. During the transformation and modernisation of the Mátra Power Plant, there will not be downsizing, but training, preparing for the emergence of new jobs, because we expect all employees of the Mátra Power Plant. This transition will be fair, fair and predictable for workers, and will be served by the ongoing consultation that the government will, for its part, regularly hold with local authorities and employees' representatives. We are imagining a green Mátra power plant, a green Mátra power plant that will live peacefully at the feet of the green Mátra. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-15-262	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr Gergely Farkas. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-02-15-263	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent days it has been 12 years since a criminal horde brutally murdered the Romanian player of the handball team in Veszprém, Marian Cozma, and his associates, a Croatian and Serbian athlete, also suffered life-threatening injuries. The tragedy of domestic sports life and the whole country was shaken, everyone shared the grief of the team and the family. The perpetrators convicted of manslaughter were sentenced from 13 to 18 years in prison, so unfortunately the sentence of life was not justified by the court, and one of them has since been released from prison for good conduct. True, he wasn't out for long, since his criminal life was suspected of continuing where he left off, and now the killer was arrested for prostitution crimes. We are simple, decent people who live by picking and ironing elderberries. He made a statement shortly after the incident in Veszprém, by the mother of one of the unsubs. It is no wonder that this caused further indignation from all decent people, since criminals apparently lived in very good financial conditions, drove luxury cars, and often boasted of their luxurious lifestyle in social media. The above-mentioned criminal, who is suspected of running women, after his conditional release in 2018, witnessed a huge escape party and drove around again with a luxury BMW. It's not a coincidence that I bring up the financial situation of the criminal family. Marian Cozma cannot be brought back into the ranks of the living, and the compensation granted will not alleviate the pain of the Cozma family that has been going on since then, but if it is paid, at least it would not be necessary for the retirement parents of the handballed, living in difficult circumstances. In itself, it is sad that the competent authorities are unable to enforce the implementation, and they cannot recover the criminal costs of tens of millions of forints and the compensation granted in respect of the seemingly unwanted families. What is even more outrageous is the fact that no penny of compensation is seen by the family, because according to the legislation, the perpetrators have to pay the state the nearly 100 million criminal costs first, and then the compensation to the victims' relatives can follow. This situation is horribly unfair, because the state is putting its own needs ahead of the civil rights needs of people whose life has been completely ruined because of the loss of their child, not only in a spiritual but also in a material sense. Of course, it is not an individual situation. I could also mention the murder in Olaszliska, where, in front of the children of Lajos Szögi, criminals who were beaten to death could not recover the amount of compensation granted, including because they had to pay the criminal costs first. It is therefore incomprehensible why the government does not show any more empathy for the victims and why it is not possible to change the order of satisfaction, if not otherwise, on the basis of at least individual consideration. I myself will initiate a change in this unjust system, as it hurts the sense of justice of all good-hearted people, and it is unlikely that the budget will be decided if it fails to recover the full cost of crime in such cases. I call on the relevant government actors to reflect on the possibilities of resolving this situation, and I call on my fellow opposition and pro-government Members to support my concrete proposal, which will soon be prepared and presented, because justice is due to all victims, not only in a moral but also in a material sense. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the independents.]] [[19.30]]
u2021-02-15-264	Thank you very much, Congressman. An independent Member, János Bencsik, has also applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Disappointing. With that one word, I could sum up what was said in the walls of this house today. After two months of reconvening the Parliament and the subject, it would have been a lot to discuss, for example, how tens of thousands of families in recent weeks are forced to face up to total insecurity; how entrepreneurs are trying to follow the increasingly untraceable, opaque and conflicting government decrees that basically determine their lives; how long they will be able to pay their employees, how long they will have customers or how long they can pay their suppliers, how many more weeks the reserves they have accumulated, while today can be summarized as Viktor Orbán orbán, and Ferenc Gyurcsány, orbán. Ladies and gentlemen, That's not why we're here. That's not why the voters sent us here. The voters sent us here to get clear answers to the problems and questions that affect their everyday lives. People rightly expect us, of course, primarily from the government, which, with a two-thirds mandate, can do anything, but also from opposition parties and representatives, what kind of real solution they have for their everyday problems. What were we supposed to talk about instead of all this? For example, where the promised support has been delayed since November for those working in catering, tourism and the service sector, when will they finally receive it, when will they finally receive it, and how much longer will they wait, and what will be possible at all. The Hungarian government closed the year 2020 with a shocking budget deficit of HUF 5550 billion, so that in the last few days before Christmas, some HUF 860 billion of money fell into many places, including near NER entrepreneurs. This money is something incomprehensible, it took 210,000 forints from the pockets of virtually every Hungarian family. Casino business. How can all restaurants, cafés, confectioneries, pubs, gyms, swimming pools and baths in Hungary be kept closed while the casinos can function comfortably? Is there a black hole in these casinos that sucks the virus apart from time and space? Because we do not see any other logical explanation for how the casino at the Corvin quarter, which is in Garancsi's interest, can operate at 1,700 square meters. We pointed out this yelling double standard with civil response activists when we symbolically closed this casino, because there is no epidemiological risk that would justify this double standard, because if it is to be kept closed, everyone must keep it closed, and if there is no reason to keep it closed, then every club and every restaurant in Hungary can open! Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, despite saying a hundred times a day that there is a national, Christian, civilian government that you are doing, it is the chemical-clean Bolshevism itself, the specialties on political grounds and on the grounds of favor, einstantisation, the putting science into service of politics and the shaping of higher education according to industrial and economic needs that are taking place today. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said today that those who have fallen out of the labour market will have unlimited access to public work after three months of unemployment benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, is this the perspective? Giving community service? Should we send the people who somehow couldn't get orders or didn't hire them as caterers to mow the lawn for the roundabouts? Or should we send the chefs and waiters to scrape their way past the trenches or to trenches? So this is your vision, this is your civilian response? I must think that you are out of your minds. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that not many of you are in this Chamber, who are pro-government representatives, that you are now taking an exam on crisis management. You say that the governments before 2010 have indebted the country, which is true, of course, but you are now indebted to the people. Who's gonna pay back the loans they're pouring on people now? Who's gonna pay you back, who's gonna start paying you back when the moratoriums expire? They have no answers to these questions. That's the truth, honourable members of the government. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You've never seen a crisis up close. Now we're gonna find out how capable they are. That's all it seems. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-02-15-266	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Hajdu has applied for a post-meeting speech from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. Feel free to put the microphone on, Congressman. We'll wait for you. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-02-15-267	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Today, on the 15th, the municipal authorities must submit their budgets to the body of representatives, and this day is a bitter day for many municipalities in this country. I'd like to go a little further back, because this is the first time we've seen each other this year. Before Christmas, we read in the Hungarian Gazette's Christmas Eve issue that some municipalities received a significant Christmas present, 13 county municipalities received 1.38 billion, so 1 billion HUF 380 million gift-unit packages from 13 county-righted municipalities, and it is absolutely surprising that each mayor with a fidesz majority wearing a fidesz sardine in the lead. Local governments with county rights, which are not a sign, have not received, such as Miskolc, Pécs, Szeged, or I could say the capital city, Budapest, or even the districts of Budapest, those in which the mayor and the majority are not pro-government in the districts. Surprisingly, the money without the norm, without all the requirements, was just handed out. It was said here today that we are not giving aid. It's basically a Christmas allowance. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]] , an aid to change the municipality's annual balance sheet and loss to the county municipalities... They couldn't use it from 31 December anyway, they could only put it in the budget if they could do so, but there wouldn't be a loss in the municipality. At the same time, the municipalities that did not receive this donation, this Christmas and Christmas Eve gift, will have this in their balance sheet at the time of closing, and now, in their budget of the body of representatives attached today, the fact that they were able to bring out the balance budget, if so, at the expense of what, what had to be carved down, how a balance budget will come out that corresponds to the Aht. the requirements of the Accounting Act, but does not comply with real needs, services and mandatory tasks. In these circumstances, we distributed money, while, at the same time, at Christmas, the news that the government had borrowed 900 billion forints, and then, with a more thorough review of this Gazette, the 24th Gazette, it turned out that 860 billion of this money was distributed there itemically, and I do not have time to list this, the remaining 40 billion, because if we add it up, about 40 billion were rewarded as Christmas money by these local governments, 13 of them, it comes out that 900 billion was even divided into Christmas. I think that this fight is going to be a lot of fighting for the government, and we know all about these fights, and they've been fighting everyone from Soros since 2019 against the municipalities, since 2019, when the parties to the coalition have gained a significant majority in the municipalities, and this fight seems to have now been converted into money. [[19.40]] I may still have so much time: the trade tax is yet another tribute to this, and the great distinction that has obviously forced the government governments to be helped out because it affects them in the same way as it affects the capital or any of the municipalities. By the way, the budget was cut only by HUF 65 billion for this one item, the hip. Is this our government? I'm asking. Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of DK, MSZP and LMP.]]
u2021-02-15-268	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Varju has also applied for a post-meeting speech from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-269	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Fellow Members! This morning, when I was in the car, I automatically switched to the Club Radio, but all I could hear was a loud sizzle. Since midnight, where he has spoken, there is no longer a Klubrádió, Newpesten, Mágocson, or Zalaszentgrót, although the latter settlements have a new opportunity. Unfortunately, this statement is of immense weight, for it shows that the government does not tolerate an organ that represents a different position or even asks for it back. Do you think there's no place in this public life for any other position than your propaganda that you're doing here? You mustn't think, you mustn't resist, that's your claim. They say that this is the fate of everyone who dares to express their opinion, that opposition politicians will not be given the opportunity to speak. I have said many times that this could not happen in a democracy, a rule of law. These are the criteria of dictatorship, which was the last time in the previous century. But we're not gonna settle for this, and so we're gonna use the Internet, and we're gonna help, we're gonna teach everyone who needs it, so that they can access the information that this radio can provide to all of us, and we're gonna say again, let it speak. Understandably, the voters are not only angry in Újpesten, the case caused a great dust storm among most of the people, but also internationally. Understandably, in European democracies, it is impossible to silence the biggest opposition radio on the grounds given. This is why my fellow Member, Csaba Molnár, has turned to the European Commission as a representative of the Democratic Coalition. It is infinitely disappointing to draw the Commission's attention to such matters, and so will our country in the world. You've read this, you've seen it in the news that's surrounded us in the last few days. However, it is becoming clear to me that, behind the condescending answers that you give us here, you have an immense fear behind the propaganda machine, a fear that, in the event of a possible change of government, every villainy will be revealed, every crime will be investigated and accounted for. Personally, as Vice-President of the Democratic Coalition, Újpest Representative, representative of the Angel Land, and Member of Parliament, I will do everything I can to ensure that the values represented by Klubradio continue to be maintained, to reach people either as Internet radios or on other channels. I think that the majority of the country needs to hear that there is a different opinion, there is something else in the world than what the government represents. So let's go, Clubradio. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2021-02-15-270	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the agenda, Mr Zoltán Varga of the DK Group also applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-271	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Many people may think that this is something that the panic government, the mayor of Debrecen Fideszes, Lajos Kósa and the representatives of the serbile fideszes even strengthen, they communicate that in today's Hungary it is enough to be fidesz to lead a big city, and then the settlement will not be affected by the restrictions in Orbán. This is also suggested by the news that, like other Fidesz-led cities, Debrecen received 1.3 billion forints baksis and juda money directly from the Prime Minister for Christmas. The problem is that it's as true as everything else the government or the Fidesz say: no matter what. Orbán and the government too, but the mayor of Debrecen, Lajos Kósa and the representatives of the Fidesz lie with noble simplicity, because Debrecen, the inhabitants of the city, should have any political preference, whether they are fidesz, in fact they are victims of the dictatorship around us as well as of any other settlement with left-wing leadership. The difference is that while they dare to raise not only their words but also their heads, they dare to walk out with their straight waists and straight spines, while Debrecen's leadership leaning to the ground in front of the power is loyal to the farthest. However, contrary to any other government or Fidesz victory report, despite apparent government help, the city stands on the brink of ruins just as well, in virtually close to bankruptcy on the border between nothing and something, being and not being, just like other Hungarian settlements. Despite all the intoxicatingly announced new local development plans, investments, despite the temporary hacks of government leaders, the helicopter or simply the ministerial delegations, the economic policy in Orbán has certainly caused fatal damage to the city's budget. While the government takes everything away from the municipalities, the oligarchs and stromes fed from Orbán's hands bathe in the billions. The mayor of Debrecen and Lajos Kósa, but the other Fidesz lords of Debrecen were forced to admit that, at the end of the year, by the way, he was obscene and distributed on the basis of every moral crossing principle, the HUF 1.3 billion that the city could receive could not actually compensate for the losses of the city's public transport. The withdrawal of the year 2020 and the difficulties caused by the crisis with regard to the municipality are also conservatively estimated and now hold on to more than HUF 5.5 billion, while the trust holding company managing the city's assets closed the last year with another HUF 3.5 billion. In addition, I must add that Debrecen is forced to use significant credit now. Thus, the indirect damage due to the irresponsible and unscrupulous policy of the Orbán course is close to HUF 10 billion in the last year alone. We know very well, we have read that the Association of County-righted Cities, Charles Sita, has already raised his voice. Interestingly, László Papp, Lajos Kósa, was Debrecen and his current mayor is deeply silent. It is questionable how long the military party discipline will last and where the responsible city leader will begin, because this situation, the grinding of municipalities, including the destruction of Debrecen, will not be tolerated for a long time by a mayor, a Member of Parliament, who lives for the city of Debrecen. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the lines of DK, MSZP and LMP.]]
u2021-02-15-272	Thank you very much, Congressman. To speak after the agenda, Congresswoman Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi from the Jobbik Group has applied. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-273	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A somogy is worth as much as a capital city. The situation in small settlements is getting worse, and we can all see it. They are in the most difficult situation, and they get the least help from the government. What do they get? Propaganda. We need more than that: real, tangible help. It is sad that there is money for consultation, and there is no money for roads and sidewalks in Somogy. But if you look at it, you can't heat up the homes of people living in extreme poverty with newly transferred fitness parks. What do you need? Complex rural development strategy, that's what you haven't put on the table yet. This is what everyone, myself, is waiting for, because it can be seen that if there is no job, if there is no housing, if there are no communities, and if there are no service sectors, even if we look at it within a 30-mile radius, then the countryside will be depopulated. As I walk the countryside and talk to families in the villages of the Somogy 4th Constituencies, everyone complains about the lack of jobs. We can see that you are not doing anything, you are idly watching the fact that the situation in Hungary is getting worse. [[19.50]] We good-looking people are struggling to build a country where prosperity and freedom are not only words, but also in action, because everyone has the right to live in a country where the countryside and villages can live, and can mean the future for everyone, and can also mean the future for young people. That's what we need most right now, that's what we're working for. We could say that on Lake Balaton in addition to the rural development strategy. It can be seen that in recent times you have done nothing but to expropriate the Lake Balaton. During the emergency, coastal properties have been sold out, camping sites have been sold, sailing ports are being built, construction permits are in progress, and we see that nothing is being done, and the government is helping to do so: it is fattening the oligarchs, while locals, residents and visitors are watching all of this, because there is nothing they can do at the moment. But the people's anger is growing, everyone can see that you are taking the Balaton away from the Hungarian people. You can't let that happen. You don't have to go too far, you just have to go down to Balatonvilágos, there's Club Aliga territory. For decades, locals have been struggling to keep public parks and roads. You have now taken this away with a government decree, and in secret negotiations you will even share the body of representatives. Here we are today, and the same thing is in Pepita in Balatonföldvár, where the building permit was issued, they are now in the water permit procedure. Yeah, it's just that the locals forgot to ask how they feel about the port investment, and they're helping you take part of the West Beach so nicely. You have given a billion forints in support of the development of this port, so don't say that you can't help it that one of the important and one of the most beautiful beaches in Lake Balaton is simply removed from the scene. And then let's not talk about what's going on in Balatonszemes and Balatonboglár: two campsites are gone. Now you're still quiet, but what are we going to see in the coming period? Apartment houses, luxury hotels are built on these beaches, and these beaches, these campsites, are also taken away from the Hungarian people. Now understand, the Balaton for the little and the big, the older and the young, the two-handed workers and the writers, the leaders and the employees, the rurals and the capitals, all Hungarians, because the Balaton is everyone's. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-02-15-274	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Bence Tordai has applied for a post-meeting speech from the Dialogue Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-275	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, The citizens of Buda also deserve modern health care. The rural Hungary has indeed, fortunately, undergone major improvements in the quality of health care in recent years, since the EU funds came to it in the first place, and by the end of the 2010s the government recognised that it is time for the citizens of Budapest to finally receive care not in health institutions at the technical level of the seventies and eighties, but in the same way as in the 21st century. Company demands it. It was a welcome sign that Mihály Varga himself, Minister of Finance, Deputy Prime Minister, Member of the Parliament of the districts concerned, announced that government support would be given to the III. in the district, for the renovation of the premises of the St. Margaret Police Institute and for the renovation of the II. In the district, for the construction of an integrated clinic. I quote literally from July 18th, 2018: with the support of the government, the St. Margaret Police Institute will be renewed. Thanks to the about 5.1 billion-dollar state aid, the renovation of the site of St. Margaret's Ordering Institute in Vörösvári út and Csobánka tér, the engineering and technical modernisation of buildings, and the replacement of medical technology and IT equipment park can also be implemented. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On October 10, 2019, just before the municipal election, they were informed of the good news of the second. district people, I quote about kormany.hu: the II. The construction of a district integrated clinic, for which the government provides the necessary resources, was announced by Mihály Varga. As he said, "The II. At present, patients are being treated at several sites in the district, so there is a great need for an institution where they can carry out all the tests in one place. As a result of the investment provided by the Hungarian government, including through self-strengthening resources, external sites will be relocated, medical devices modernised, cure-like benefits developed, and the modernisation of the IT system's equipment park. So, in 2018-19, there was a complete consensus that II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. The clinics of the district must be renovated and developed. What happened next? The municipal elections came, where Budapest's opposition mayor, the II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. The district chose opposition mayors, and that, no, the development was not mentioned until the last days of 2020, when a government decision came to the effect that these resources, which are intended for the development of district offices, would simply be lost by one feather stroke in Annex II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. From people in the district. So what happened was that just like Mihály Varga and the Fidesz government had broken their promises a year ago, they had been given confidence that they were at least developing health care in the district, even as a result of this promise. In these two districts alone, nearly HUF 10 billion was withdrawn from the development of health care at a time when the Hungarian health system is already in crisis, when we are in the middle of a pandemic, and when this money is spent in place of it as further development of sports facilities, and as Viktor Orbán said at a government meeting, winning the wobbly districts. So there will be a new church and another wellness facility where they think it will be possible to sweep a few votes in the 2022 election. In order to do this, they broke their promise, they tricked the II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. district citizens, and I think they've lost their credibility once and for all. From this point forward, it is our duty, opposition, to organize this civil audience and community in Buda, to carry on the forms of protest. Thank you for the thousands of supporting messages and feedback we have received in our fight to renovate the clinics in Buda. I would like to ask that the person who has not yet signed the petition to recover the funds for the clinics can be found on my Facebook page. We can be sure that in 2022, after the change of government, a coalition in the Republic will come to power that will even keep the promises of Fidesz, which we consider to be worthy of achieving. And these developments at the clinic are clearly like this. So everyone who wants quality health care as a citizen of Buda is best to join the forces of government change, help us replace this lying government, which deceived them, tricked them, and, together, implement modern patient care in Buda. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-02-15-276	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs from the Jobbik Group applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-277	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The elections are coming, and we know this not only from the calendar, but also from the fact that a promise tsunami has flooded South Somogy from the pro-government side. Why did all this happen? Well, just because the news went off like a bomb, and it disappointed a lot of people, it was a total disappointment, and it confirmed in his sad belief that South Somogy was some kind of stepchild for the Fidesz government. South Somogy has also been wiped off the map, as it turns out that they are setting a new course for the M9 motorway, and there are rightly so many in the southern part of the county that they have actually given up the last rites to the areas south of Kaposvár. Somogy County is in a particular situation, because the main traffic axis is on the outskirts of the county, on the shore of Lake Balaton, this is the M7, and if they are building such a new transversal orbit, which is obviously pleased by everyone in the country, then it would be logical if the peripheral parts of the county could be explored and dynamicized as much as possible, because we can encounter huge problems as we leave this band of Kaposvár and go further and further south in the county. [[20.00]] So, this would be useful, but instead we see a new route, not the Kaposvár-Nagykanizsa route, but the Kaposvár-Keszthely-Zalaegerszeg route was set from the government side, which is indeed South Somogy, but I would add that the southern part of Zala county will be affected, so the area of Nagykanizsa will be very negatively affected, and those who say that if this is done in this form, then there, in the southern part of the county, they can definitely put up the end-of-Hungary board. And that's why there's this promise dumping that we're meeting right now, because there's got to be some way to make up for the people of Nagyatád, Csurgó and the Barcs region. And that's all it's about is the renovation of the 6th. We know he's in a life-threatening condition, and it's got Croatian and Romanian trucks on it. Nothing happened in order to renovate it, even though in 2013 at the appointed Baranya county government meeting, everything was promised to Baranya and Somogy in connection with it. Then they started making promises about road 68, which stained the back of the country, one of the worst-cased national highways in the country. I wish it to be that way, so make these promises, but the attic is full of promises, full of the snowshoes of the people of Somogy County and South Somogy; we can see that these promises have not been made properly. What perspective remains for the people living there? Indeed, if there is no normal infrastructure, then they feel as if they were buried alive there, in that region, and if there is no investment there, then they will remain in front of people or in front of a lot of people, such as, say, 22 800 forints, compared to which, unfortunately, they must say, community service seems almost a quality leap, and there are a lot of people who are begging, begging, begging the mayors to get at least that. And what kind of respect does community service have? A public worker's salary will rise by 76 forints a day. Shame and shame when, let's say, the prime minister's piggy bank has been able to increase its assets by HUF 100 billion in the last year. Or what moral honor do these public workers have? John Lázár said that anyone who goes to work at 6:00 a.m., as a community worker, would not be thinking about stealing at 3:00 p.m. This is how much they appreciate these average citizens who are often very early, hardworking and earning little. But the EPP Jobbik doesn't want any of this. We want to build a fair, well-being Hungary, and we will also make sure that if you do not, we will be able to fulfill it. Please, my honourable members of the Government, hear the complaints of the rural people, hear the complaints of the people of South Somogy, who say a lot of people have to leave, who say that they are buried alive, who say that we are at the end of 24 hours. My fellow Members, if the region does not receive effective government assistance, we can also say good-bye to this region. The Ormans have already disappeared, Inner and South Somogy are now disappearing, and joins him, if all goes on, in the southern part of Zala County. We don't want to wait for this. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-02-15-278	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Ádám Steinmetz of the Jobbik Group also applied for a post- Agenda address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-02-15-279	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In recent years, we have seen with regret and shock that politics is moving into social spaces that it should not. Politicians take control of NGOs, professional organisations, interest organisations, and unfortunately, the world of sport is no exception. In general, large-scale sports clubs and sports associations are managed by policy-related persons who also have significant State aid. This is not in the interests of Hungarian sport, so we say that Hungarian sport needs politics, but not the politician. Why not? Well, for example, it's because making sport is an independent profession. Politicians don't even act like doctors. But let's be honest: if a public figure, a Member of Parliament, leads a sports club, how long and how much energy do you have in conscience, in dealing with and dealing with his troubles? Then it is entirely against the spirit of healthy competition that the leader of a sports organization, in his capacity as a politician, decides to support the sport organization he is running, or to pay attention now! not to support his opponents, his competitors. I'm moving on. According to the law on local authorities, no activity can be carried out which undermines the public confidence necessary for the performance of the tasks of its representatives. Well, we have recently seen the devastating consequences of a Member of Parliament, as president of a sports association, pushing that organization into a billion-dollar debt. Well, if it's anything, it'll obviously undermine public confidence in the congressmen. As politicians appear, political conflicts also appear in the world of sport. Sport will thus not be a bridge to peace, but, on the contrary, a political battlefield. And how this is so, it has already been recognized internationally in several places. In Montenegro, the Sports Act, for example, considers it incompatible with previous negative experiences and expressly prohibits the participation of politicians in sport. And while we are in international sports life, in the world of international sport, they simply do not understand why Hungarian sports clubs and Hungarian sports associations are represented by party politicians and why professional and competent sports leaders with inadequate sports history. Finally, but not least, there is also a very bad message of leading a sports community of different political world-view people, athletes, fans, party politicians, i.e. divisive personalities. In view of this, we will submit a proposal for a decision in order to ensure that the President of the Republic, Prime Minister, Member of Parliament, mayor, representative of the local government, member of the representative body of the county municipality, as well as the head of a state- and municipal-owned company, as well as the senior official of a sports organisation, are not in the future president or member of the Presidency. Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that you will be able to support this proposal, because, as I said, sport needs policy, but not the politician. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-02-15-280	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work all day, thank you for keeping the record, thank you for your service. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Good night, everyone. Meeting day's closed.
