u2021-05-03-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 17th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Gergely Arató will be in charge of the meeting to assist me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work today with speeches before the agenda, from 12:15 to 13:45 a.m. for questions, and from approximately 13:45 a.m. to 14:45 a.m. for immediate questions and answers, and we will conclude the Parliament's meeting with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, from the Dialogue Group, spoke before the agenda, with a title on current affairs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-03-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, on behalf of the Dialogue, we wish the little students who are graduating this week good luck. Good luck to them. Secondly, of course, we thank all those involved in the fight against the epidemic again, everyone who helps us. But to whom no thanks are due, it is the government and the Prime Minister. I thought the astrazenec fiasco in March couldn't be underdone, but it looks like we've managed to subdue it. Last Friday, many people asked what the Prime Minister was doing with this, and he got it. With action. As a gentleman of grace, he has distributed hundreds of thousands of vaccines among the people, putting people, defensemen, all of them in a ready position. In any case, maximum respect for those who have endured on this day, because without them, the whole system would have fallen apart. The question is, that's what the government really thinks is organized, mass, safe vaccination. Is that really your vaccination plan? The barbecue, the serialization, the ringing, that's for sure. The Prime Minister exposed people to hours of queues, hours of anxiety; then either they got a vaccine or they didn't. That's how you tease people, there was a place where, unfortunately, people got into a fight. While chronic patients over 60 have been waiting for them to receive Pfizer for several weeks, there are also some who have received it without registration. It's chaos! People didn't even understand what it was that today they could sell 100,000 Pfizer and tomorrow they couldn't. Why can't you give it Saturday or Sunday, or later, why did you have to do that on Friday? Of course, we suspect the answer: The hotels of Lőrinc Mészáros had to open this weekend. With this, the Prime Minister humiliated the Hungarian people. At least to come here and apologize, at least to send the Minister of Health in here to apologize. Of course, after the barbecue, serialization, vaccination, I'm not sure they'll have time to apologize, because they're not gonna make it. The other trouble is the registration page. Load attack, yeah, loaded attack! Don't you have anything better to say? When the Chinese vaccine was registered, why wasn't there a problem? And when the KRÉTA system was launched in online education, was it still a stressful attack? I'm just asking which of your kissing buddies handles these IT systems. In advance, we do not want to see that the parliamentary elections in 2022 are freezing again because of a stress attack. Will there be consequences? Are they gonna charge the kissers, or are you just gonna afford it again for anti-vaccination? ! The government already assigns all epidemiological measures to the number of vaccinations. They have a soul, but at least they would receive the immunity certificate in time for those who are entitled to it if certain services were provided. But we couldn't solve that either. Several people have been waiting for their cards for several weeks, even though they've had the second shot. When are they gonna shake this system? It's also great that anyone who's been vaccinated in Russia and China can travel to Bahrain. But I would like to draw the attention of the pro-government representatives that the average Hungarian does not go to such luxury places as Dubai, Bahrain, Maldives. These are your friends. When will the government arrange for those who have received Chinese or Russian vaccines to travel to Croatia, Greece, Italy, Bulgaria? [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Within weeks.]] The question is that, outside of preschool vaccination, they want to govern more, they want to deal with matters that are really important to the Hungarian people. In connection with my proposal for a resolution on the Great Lakes, however, I couldn't even afford a good line-up or roll-off or anti-vaccination, and I didn't get any answers, even though I e-mailed the Fidesz fraction leader, the KDNP fraction leader, and invited them to ParLex, and sent an open letter to the faction leaders, but no response. This proposal was put together by civilians. The civilians gathered together and wrote how they could protect our most beautiful and largest Hungarian lakes. The question is whose side the government is taking in this case. All opposition parties have joined the proposal and are on the side of civilians. The question is whether the government is on the side of economic interest groups or civilians. Well, here's your chance: let's hear it, the government's representatives can do anything other than brisketing, serialization, gingerbreading, anti-vaccination? Thank you for the floor.
u2021-05-03-2	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, Mr Dömötör State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-05-03-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I understand that you feel uncomfortable reminding left-wing parties that there have been anti-vaccination actions in the last few months, but don't expect us not to do so because it has consequences. One of your analysts has made it clear that the support of the left-wing parties has been reduced. You have a heavy responsibility in this. We therefore speak to them, asking them not to listen to you, not to listen to these actions, for example, that the authorisation procedure was attacked, that signatures were collected against vaccines, that at some point they were even banned, that they should not take into account actions that were visible locally, the essence of which was to dissuade the people who lived there locally, saying that China was not a good vaccine. We could make a list of these operations. They were all extremely irresponsible, and you have a responsibility. Don't expect us not to make this sound. If you think vaccinations should play a major role in overcoming the epidemic, you may agree with that, but not all the left-wing parties, I agree with you. That is why it is a very important milestone that the number of vaccinees exceeds four million. It is right to think that this is a level of grafting in Hungary that leads to the reduction of new infections. If we look at the numbers, it's true. While there was a day in Hungary when the number of new infections was over 10,000, this number has now fallen to a little over a thousand, this is one tenth of the previous number. This is still not small, but much fewer people will get sick than before, and if there are fewer diseases, fewer people will be hospitalized and fewer deaths will be. It is a fundamental circumstance that we are now entering the stage of mass vaccinations. Not only do the GPs call the registered ones, but you can make an appointment. What you're referring to actually means that many vaccines can be used in this program in Hungary. [[11.10]] This is an opportunity that is currently not available in most European countries. I would like to draw your attention, honourable Member, to the fact that all vaccines authorised in Hungary are effective. Instead of insulting those involved in this, I would like to thank everyone involved in the vaccinations, doctors, nurses, administrative staff, drivers, policemen and soldiers. It's a huge operation, it's a huge job, so thanks should be great. In comparison, dear Member, in Hungary there is 41 percent grafting, the EU average is 24 percent, in Germany this rate is 27 percent, and they will provide every citizen from June to any age group for vaccination. On the other hand, everyone in Hungary can receive vaccination within a short period of time, and we will soon reach the point where people between the ages of 16 and 18 can receive it. That's what you call a collapse. That's all, but it's not a collapse. Over the weekend, I can say this: we were able to take slaying steps to get back to our normal lives, community and cultural spaces, services could be opened again, theatres, museums, cinemas, gyms, sports facilities, defining spaces of life. Of course, strict safety rules have to be followed, and a lot of people have waited for this phase of the reboot to start, and this is all due to the effective implementation of the vaccination programme. The fight against the virus is, of course, not over yet, but we are on track, and we have every hope that the summer ahead of us will be more like the summer before the epidemic than last year, and we believe that this will be reflected in economic numbers. I am truly sorry that left-wing policy has been characterised over the past year by a consistent attack on all measures that were of paramount importance at the time. If it was bed numbers, then if it was a ventilator, then if the government decided on tests, then it was attacked, and if it was the vaccination program, then it was attacked, all of which would have been open when we were in the rising stage of the third wave, and they wanted to close when it was possible to open. I think, honourable Member, that you cannot overcome an epidemic with constant denial and political bullets, nor can you build a country. I'm sorry you chose this path. They could have taken the path of responsibility. The political debates would have waited for all of us. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-03-4	Thank you. Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP, spoke before the agenda also with a title on current affairs. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2021-05-03-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I will also start today by thanking everyone who works to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people and, of course, I wish graduations good luck. Well, we need to talk about it after a serious parliamentary week, that you have proved once again that you are willing to steal from the nation at any time, even during a serious crisis, and are willing to betray and deceive the Hungarian people. We can say that in the period after the change of regime, what you have done last week is unprecedented, based on lies, almost all Hungarian higher education has been outsourced and placed under political guardianship, in addition to the fact that a huge part of the public wealth has also been outsourced to private foundations with fidesz leadership. But you lied to the universities, you lied to the university senates, you lied to the university leaders. Last week, in the middle of last week, Gergely Gulyás was Minister, and on Friday Prime Minister Viktor Orbán himself admitted that you lied here in the Hungarian Parliament for months. But let's see, first of all, Minister Palkovics started talking about the possibility of developing higher education in history sometime in January, as there will be 1,500 billion for higher education from EU development funds. On Thursday, Minister Gergely Gulyás simply announced that he would not make it; so there is nothing or almost nothing for universities from EU development resources. In effect, you have deceived and betrayed Hungarian higher education. One of the reasons that was said here for months turned out to be a lie, following Minister Gulyás's announcement. We have also heard from you here for months that you respect university autonomy and that it is not true that there are political intentions behind outsourcing. Viktor Orbán closed this debate on Friday but we obviously knew that you were constantly lying, lying to universities, lying to the Hungarian public, and lying to the Hungarian public here in Parliament, Viktor Orbán closed this debate, saying on Friday that he was very proud of the fact that universities, the entire Hungarian state higher education, were disorganized after political motivation. I didn't quite understand exactly what you said, Prime Minister, exactly what you were going to say, perhaps Mr Secretary of State will help you to explain this. First, we have heard from your fellow Member about the attack of aliens, the need to protect Hungarian universities from aliens, and the Prime Minister wants to protect universities from such globalist, internationalist defiance, that he is planning to organise them into fidesz hands and under fidesz guardianship for all eternity. How do you imagine it, Mr. Secretary? It's a huge lie in the first place that you'd be politics on a national scale. You're the only ones who lie to themselves as nationals. You are the globalists, basically at any time, signing any free trade agreement, signing at any time against the interests of the Hungarian people with multinational companies, and serving either Chinese or Russian great power interests at any time. But that's not the point, Mr. Secretary. How's this gonna work? How will Viktor Orbán say they will defend national perception in universities? So how do you try it? I hope you do not want to defend that false national and lying concept in this way. How's it gonna happen? Will the Board meetings decide how and who can teach at Hungarian universities? This is completely outrageous! You have proved last week that by outsourcing public wealth, by outsourcing almost all Hungarian higher education for false reasons, by deceiving universities, by dragging them into this process with lies and blackmail, you have proved that you have no respect for any tradition, no respect for any tradition, and, let alone respect university autonomy, but you have a special disregard for it. Earlier, the university senates said that they wanted a clear say and an opportunity to intervene in the structure of the Curatoriums that maintain universities when this change of model takes place. This isn't happening. You will appoint Fidesz Party Soldiers in a row and in a row in uninvited manner to the Curatorios that maintain universities, in Hungarian: above the universities. While you lied about development resources, and while you are not giving them away, you are not delivering this 1500 billion EU development resource to universities, so you have cheated universities, and you have concluded an agreement that will end up with you spending more money building the Budapest campus of the University of the Chinese Communist Party than you have spent a year to complete Hungarian higher education. That's pretty amazing. By the way, it is a good character for your ideological commitment, a good character for your political thinking, but it is the pawning of the future of the Hungarian people, the young Hungarians. What I can tell you is that after 2022, the new government will have one of the most important and urgent tasks of restoring university autonomy, kicking out Fidesz party cadets, providing universities with adequate and necessary development resources, and taking the very important step that you have been unable to take in 11 years to settle the humiliatingly low higher education workers, teachers and researchers' wages. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-03-6	Thank you. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Secretary of State, you have the floor. [[11.20]]
u2021-05-03-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, At the beginning of his speech, he thanked health workers and all those involved in the defence. Allow me to join in on this myself, for we can truly be grateful to everyone who has been doing the hard work of defense for many months now, for more than a year. And, indeed, good luck for the beginners today. We are interested in making them successful in their lives, careers, scientific work or the labour market. They are the subject of a change in the model of higher education, and they are in their interest in making higher education more competitive, which you are constantly attacking. You may wish graduations good success here, but you do not support the acquisition of higher-quality knowledge, higher-value degrees and better-use competences and skills at better universities. Honourable Member, we are working for the graduates and the future. We work and consider it important to change models so that we can create a better higher education, a more competitive higher education for them. And, honourable Member, I cannot go without saying that you have changed your strategy over the last few weeks, obviously in recent months. You began to sing from Ferenc Gyurcsány's music even more strongly, learning the words that we had heard from Peter Jakab, Ferenc Gyurcsány or Gergely Arató. Well, honourable Member, I have some bad news: this competition, who can shout louder, you will not be able to win it. I hope, honourable Member, that it is possible to go back to normal debates on what is better for the country, how to develop different areas of the country, how to even create a more effective and competitive operation in higher education. Congressman, I urge you to do this. You do not want to compete with Ferenc Gyurcsány and all those who now order you to make such angry speeches in Parliament. And, honourable Member, I also urge you to stop spreading false news. Stop repeating the misleading information we have repeatedly told you about in the Hungarian public, we have repeatedly told you here, we have repeatedly said in countless forums that it is not true. You claim that the government does not want or will not implement the improvements needed to strengthen higher education. But that's not true! That's not true. We have made it clear on several occasions that we will implement these developments, regardless of the source. The change of model is good, and it is also appropriate to make this decision at this moment because it is now possible to spend these development resources in a better, more competitive structure. Don't give me false news, Your Honour. And it is also clear that you are outraged at only one thing, because we are not taking on another loan, a loan that contains conditions that are not the best for Hungary, honourable Member. You're outraged because we don't owe you any more credit. You have arrived on the left, honourable Member, if you take just this one thought, this one sentence. You have arrived with your friends, those political allies who have indebted Hungary, who have ruined Hungarian economic policy with terrible IMF loans and other constructions. Mr President, you are a credit protégé, you are a debt protégé, you want to make bad improvements on credit, while we want to make good improvements either from your own resources or in any available financing arrangements. Honourable Congressman, Moreover, you are attacking the Hungarian government because we have made it clear that basically we need curators that hold national value, national interest first, who can think in a sovereignty way instead of what you are doing on the left. Your boss, honourable Member, is thinking in the United States of Europe. This is what you are fighting for, which is why you are fighting here in the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-03-8	Thank you. The next speaker before the agenda is Mr László Varju, representative of DK, with an address on current affairs. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-05-03-9	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. I would like to note to Mr State Secretary that they are not on the right track, so that they are not mistaken, and I think that they are also giving a visible sign because they are desperately protesting. This is what they do, among other things, in the area where the governing parties continue to churn, while three quarters of the Hungarian people clearly support the European Union, our system of allies. The Democratic Coalition, as the most European party, wants us to live in a free democratic European rule of law, where there is no need to be afraid of entering a hospital where there is no need to be afraid, afraid that our children will be taught from ten years of teaching material, where there is no need to fear that working Hungarians will be considered slaves. We want a European Hungary that does not belong to Viktor Orbán and some oligarchs, but to European Hungarians. We represent them, the Hungarians in Europe. In the European political alliance, Hungary closed its 17th year the other day, most of which, by the way, were controlled by you, while using HUF 20 000 billion and HUF 20 billion. It may also show that Hungary is one of the financial beneficiaries of this alliance. This fact is only mentioned at home when they boast that they have made the most money right now. Although they also act like an aggressive piggy when it rains heavily on the bike and responds to the anxious, helping hand to shut up, that's how I land. So that's how you behave. We could ignore your feelings, but unfortunately we also have to see that, despite such opportunities, the majority of the Hungarian regions remained in poverty after their decades of governance. Four Hungarian regions, the countryside, still belong to the poorest ten regions in Europe. You couldn't help them catch up, you only spent your money referring to them. And that's what they want to do now. Do they say honey words and keep stealing? Is this how you want to continue? Because not only has the US launched a rescue package, but Europe has also helped to alleviate the dramatic economic difficulties caused by the global epidemic of viruses, but also through unprecedented cooperation, solidarity and similar methods. It has set up a common support framework to help all countries, including Hungary, to reduce its difficulties. Yet you're sulking like the aggressive pig, that the Orbán government doesn't want to pay off the country. No, because they did it a long time ago. They've requested and used the Russian and Chinese expensive loan, which is what they're doing, and that's what you're developing, Mr. Secretary of State. The real reason for their sulking is, of course, that the Orbán government does not take on the guarantee of the non-corruption use expected in Europe, because we know not only in Hungary now that it is not enough to drain public money for people, but in the meantime, they will also be let down in a mean manner, without wage support, with a 90-day unemployment allowance, for ten years with an unchanged family allowance and with compensation for the disabled pensioners you have reduced. Instead of governing for the common good, they were raped by a party state using one-sided communication to prevent them from seeing how they were being stolen. But now not only did Hungarians have enough of this, but also their European party sororities, so they decided to stop being ashamed of themselves and push the Fidesz away from them. Enough of the Fidesz-KDNP pro-state system! Enough for the Hungarians, enough for their friends of principle, and enough for me! But don't try, Mr. Secretary of State, to play the IMF, and to refer to what was 15 years ago, because all Hungarians were shortened by millions. You will have to account for every signature you sign. [[11.30]] And that is why we recommend Dobrev Klára, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Democratic Coalition, to the primary competition of the opposition's electoral and political parties. [[Noise from the pro-government lines.]] The pre-election will be a real celebration, an opportunity for people to take back power, and so let's take a big step to end the urizing slurring of the Fidesz-KDNP state party. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2021-05-03-10	On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, wishes to respond to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-05-03-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Well, at the end of it, the nail came out of the bag, and it took more than four and a half minutes to wait. You said loud words about European cooperation, obviously public policy, effective use of money, but at the end it turned out that it was a political cortespoken speech, and that in our serious negotiations with the European Union in the middle of a coronal virus epidemic, nothing else was important except that you were married to Ferenc Gyurcsány, Klára Dobrev. [[László Varju intervenes.]] the opposition side, the Left Prime Minister's candidate. We have been trying to convince you for a year that perhaps, when there are serious national issues, what would really happen if you tried to deal with the people, what if you focused on the Hungarians, what would happen if the interests of Hungarian businesses were taken into consideration. But it seems that we are failing in this experiment, because you are taking every opportunity to bake your political steak, not to deal with what I think the Hungarian Member of Parliament should do to represent the Hungarian people. He spoke about the European Union and mentioned the 17th anniversary of EU cooperation. I would like to express my joy on this occasion. We are pleased that Hungary is a member of the European Union, a member of European cooperation. The country has made serious sacrifices, and has had some serious opportunities. We think that with these opportunities, the country was able to steward well. One element of this system of options and obligations is the use of resources from the European Union, Brussels. We are in a fortunate position from the country's point of view, but we are now in a fortunate position to compare that there was a time when you had the government's responsibility to manage EU funds, and there was a time when we were, so the two periods are comparable. This clearly shows that the 2007-2013 development policy cycle has put the country in a very, very difficult position because of your failed planning and process start-up activities, and that the risk of loss of resources was threatened, which we then had to resolve after 2010 by restructuring the EU institutional system. In the current development cycle, however, we are achieving major successes. 95 percent of the framework has already been paid by the government to the project executives, and Hungary's results for the V4 countries are outstanding in terms of grants granted, contracted grants and payments. And if you think that Hungary is misusing these resources, then you are not having a political debate with me and not with the government side, but with analysts and, for example, the Chancellor of Germany. Moody, for example, recently released its analysis: it said that the growth of GDP in Hungary was increased by an average of 2.6 percentage points annually by EU funds. This is the best result of the countries in the region; the average is 1.6 percent, so we can add 1 percent more in growth. According to Chancellor Angela Merkel, I quote that Hungary is making good use of EU funds, making smart investments and pursuing smart economic policies. Overall, I would like to draw your attention to the importance of this word: overall, you are using these funds to improve the well-being of people. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We would also like to use the resources available in the recovery fund in the next financial cycle, or in the so-called RRF framework. I would like to put an end to the misunderstanding that this is basically a credit facility. In the case of the non-refundable, supporting part, the responsibility of the States is clearly indirect, but in the case of the reimbursable parts, it is directly the responsibility of all nation states. So we are only willing to support and use a construction that will benefit the Hungarian people. On the other hand, you are talking about European united states. I have never heard anything from a Hungarian politician responsible in the history of parliamentarism for hundreds of years that he would have fought for less powers for Budapest, more powers for Vienna, Moscow and Brussels to choose his own headquarters. I think it's unprecedented. And given European Union policy, it is clear that if there is no strong Hungarian representation, there is no reduction in fees, there is no tax reduction. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] there is no anti-migration policy and no family support. That's what we're fighting for, and that's what you're fighting for. Try to take the side of the Hungarian people once! Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-03-12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, also spoke before the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-05-03-13	Thank you very much. Dear House, Fellow Members! The government has seen the light of day [[István Szilárd Németh: He is lying!]] the idea that pensions will be adjusted by 0.6 percent during the summer. What's happened so far? It's just that what everyone in this country knew after a year, the government found out. Last year, when the budget debate took place here in May, I myself drew attention to the fact that the central bank is already expecting a higher inflation rate than the government has submitted in the Budget Act. Consequently, the blind can also see that prices have gone wild this year, and that during the summer the government will be graciously giving away the money that should have been given already in January. Maybe we should do a little more. Look, last year, I checked, there wasn't a month where the inflationary rate of food would have been below 7 percent, I'm telling you, less than 7 percent. There were products and product groups where inflation was not uncommon at 20-30 percent. There is no better demonstration of pension poverty, either, that in 2010, my fellow Members, the poverty rate of pensioners did not reach 5 per cent, and this has tripled over ten years. You know these statistics. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: That's not true!]] They are also familiar with the KSH figure that, in the lowest income tenth, in 2010, there were 26 thousand pensioners and, by 2020, fellow Members, this increased to 270 thousand people. Thus, the number of pensioners living in the lowest income tenths increased more than tenfold. Well, we don't need a lot of stats here, because pensioners feel price increases on their skin. Fellow Members! 0.6 percent. You know, in the South Heves region, and no matter which settlements we line up, Pély or Visnek, or even Sarud or Kisköre, people there live from 70-80 thousand forints if they are retired, and there are many who are even less than that. They will receive the HUF 270-300 by 0.6 percent. Maybe they can buy 20 ounces of kissing sausage for it. But even with the average increase, the increase or increase in the average pension, this adjustment will not reach 800 HUF per month. However, my fellow Members, you also know that almost two thirds of pensioners do not even get the average. Of the nearly 2 million pensioners, 1.2 million people do not get the average. Well, they don't get this raise, or they don't get this adjustment, even though everyone in the store costs the same amount of bread, milk, or, as I mentioned, the kisser. Although those with a million-dollar pension are likely to buy Pick salami, they do not care about the inflation rate in Hungary. You know, this policy you've been pursuing has led me here, unfortunately. It has led to the result of the failed inflation-following pension increase, that so many people are forced to live in poverty. I have repeatedly called attention to the fact that this is a scam of the century, because with this inflation-following pension increase, all they say is that anyone who has lived on miserablely few pensions last year is guaranteed by Viktor Orbán that he will live on miserablely few pensions again next year. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Lajos Korózs took it!]] Because he's only raising his pension by the amount of money he's losing. The other measure enabled the existence of millions of pensions in Hungary. It's unfair, it's unacceptable! [[11.40]] I believe that all opposition forces are committed to adjusting pensions when they come to government, and low pensions must be caught up. For example, our proposal is to ensure that a single initial old-age pension is not less than 50% of the net minimum wage. We say that if, despite this, one person's household does not reach the minimum living limit of one person's pension, it must be adjusted through the social system. And we also say that we need to go back to the mixed indexation, we also say that we need to go back to the so-called Swiss indexation, and that everyone should be given an increase in the pension increased by inflation in January, but that the wage calculation should be given to everyone at the same amount. This would allow low pensions to catch up. This is our program. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-03-14	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, Mr Róbert Zsigó wishes to respond to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-05-03-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Well, how do I put this delicately? We sat here stunned. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] at the hearing of the talk [[Lajos Korózs: You don't have to sit through it. You can go outside.]] What you did here, and I didn't yell at you, so you can listen to any of them. Congressman, you've been known for the last few months, or you could say you're infamous. In videos and statistics people are constantly deceived, and I see that you cannot outgrow it, and you have done so in your speech here in Parliament. Plus, let's not forget that we're in an epidemic, you're anti-vaccination. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] You've been attacking defenses and defenses for the last year, and you've talked people out of getting vaccinated against the virus that has often killed them. But, Congressman, you are not only famous for this, but also for the fact that you have always promised everything verbally, but in your actions you have always made life difficult for families and the elderly. [[László Varju: Fake!]] You, honourable Member, were, in addition to being a Member of Parliament before 2010, also a Secretary of State for Social Affairs. If anyone had a say in the matter about what kind of care the pensioners would receive, well, you had a say, or at least you would have had a say. The fact is, I'm sure you remember that during the period when you were in this position, the amount of money was shortened, the support for home creation at the time was cut off, the expenses were skyrocketed, putting pensioners in a very difficult position, and, yes, Congressman, during that period you took away the 13th month pension from the elderly. And after that, you stand up here and pretend to be concerned about retired people, and here, who's a bit of a good person, you're amazed at what you think you're doing. But the thing is, in a sense, we can relax, because people know you, they know you can't really believe what you're saying. Dear Parliament, We, unlike the governments of Gyurcsány, Bajnai, are treating the crisis differently, we are not talking, we are acting, and in the crisis caused by the coronal virus, we have not abandoned people, families, or the elderly, pensioners. Within the framework of the economic re-launch action plan, the step-by-step retirement of the 13th month pension you have taken started this year, in the first year in a HUF 78 billion line, in February the pensioners received a weekly amount of pension and pension-like benefits. But you know that we made an alliance with the pensioners in 2010, and we agreed to do so, and we still believe that their pension, as long as there is a national government, cannot lose its value. Since 2010, the purchasing value of pensions has increased by 10 percent, in contrast, under your governance, the purchasing value of pensions has decreased by 4 percent. Over the past four years, pensioners have received HUF 220 billion in extra payments, and in the form of a pension premium, they too have benefited from economic success. In 2017-18-19, 2016-17 Christmas, and on Easter 2018 Erzsébet's voucher, and in September 2019 all pensioners were entitled to a pension, and by the end of the year 2020, more than 299 thousand women could retire after 40 years of entitlement. And it is also important that the law now guarantees the value of pensions. From January, pensions and pension-like benefits increased by 3 percent. Under the current provision, if the expected annual inflation exceeds the planned rate, the difference will be paid by the government in November, from January onwards. In view of the pandemic situation this year, the government decided not in November, but that pensioners could receive it earlier in June, also until the end of January... It is clear from what I have said, Mr honourable Member, that you have made the lives of the elderly miserable with austerity, and we will help, support and respect the elderly with all possible means. I can assure you that the government will continue to be depended on by the elderly. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-03-16	Thank you. Tamás Csányi, MP Jobbikós, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-03-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Let me try to clarify one thing with you at the beginning of my speech. True, we have said this many times, but somehow you have failed to understand this, so I will say it again: the opposition and therefore the Movement for Jobbik Hungary are not anti-vaccination. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Then withdraw the resolution proposal.]] You would normally refer to a proposal for a decision in support of this statement, in which we would have asked the Hungarian Parliament to set up a committee of inquiry to examine the unclear circumstances surrounding Chinese vaccines, such as why Hungarian taxpayers have gained much more of the Chinese vaccine than other vaccines. Of course, we've known why this happened since then, and you can't be particularly proud of it, gentlemen. This proposal did not receive any support, so its warranty period has expired, so to speak. Do you know when? Early March. Compared to this, you guys were in a choir last week to say that we were anti-vaccination, and in an extreme way, even the Secretary of State of Rétvári, they demanded that we withdraw our proposal. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] which has already been voted down. [[György Szilágyi: That's right! Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] It's locked. So there are two options: (a) you do not know how the system works, and you do not know that we cannot withdraw this proposal; (b) you intend to build political capital on a massive slippage. [[György Szilágyi: That's right! Dr. Bence Rétvári: If you had withdrawn it, you wouldn't have to explain now!]] I'm leaning towards the latter, Your Honours Secretary of State, and unfortunately, that's not very nice of you. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right!]] I also know that you are very much in love with the quotes. I brought you one from the President of the Republic to remember what János Áder said on Easter. I quote: "It would be good for everyone to be aware that the epidemic cannot be a time of political games for self-interest, political profit and competition in subpar speeches. It would be good, gentlemen of the state, if this imperialist from above were to be regarded as valid for themselves. [[György Szilágyi: That's right! Dr. Bence Rétvári: Take it back, and there will be no foundation.]] Give up your self-serving, incriminating policies. Believe me, they help the Hungarians a lot in their daily lives. And you know what else they'd do to help? If they were to implement a predictable and predictable education policy during the viral epidemic, because what they've been doing lately, how can I put it? You seem improvising, Mr. Secretary of State. You don't really know what to do? What's wrong? Is there a disturbance in the force? Consider, for example, the 19th of April when they wanted to open the school gates again and decided to teach attendance. Then came the ADOM Student Movement, who started organizing studenthood. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who are they?]] Let's just say that his opposition and trade unions have arrived, so the profession has also come, who have also asked that we wait for the opening, because the protection of teachers has not yet developed for this date. I would like to note in a low voice that is what we have asked of you in this House. So the Prime Minister blew a defeat-like retreat, and only the kindergarteners and juniors were bravely sent back to the front line, obviously in a completely thoughtful and professionally sound way. Have you even dealt with this issue, gentlemen? Minister Kásler gave his last statement on graduations in early March, and he predicted it! That there will be an oral graduation, and that there will be no classroom education. After all, we think it is better not to speak, because with such predictions they probably would not want to employ the Minister in any oracle, but the question is why we should. [[11.50]] Dear House, Written graduations began today, and it seems that the maturandians will not be able to speak, but what we do not understand is why, if every student can return to school from 10 May. Is there a professional reason for that? For this year, honourable secretary of state, neither prom, nor serenad, nor graduation, nor oral graduations have been taken away from them, which highlights the graduates, distinguishing them in a community. Think about it. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: But why are you arguing against the vaccine? Now you want to open without a vaccine?]] And speaking of May 10th, just for the record, the students are preparing for May 10th. [[Robert Szigó: You told me not to!]] Their petition has already been signed by over 20,000 people. We look forward to the revelation of the 133 bravest, much bravest leader on May 7th, whether he will maintain the full opening of schools or back down now. Dear House, In any case, in the name of the People's Party Jobbik, [[There's a grumble and a blur in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Left-wing Jobbik!]] I wish the graduates good luck... calm down! [[András Tállai: Gyurcsányist. Intercoms.]] In any case, on behalf of the EPP Jobbik, I wish the graduates good luck in this competition as if everything had been okay, as if this never-ever-ever-ever situation hadn't put a stamp on them for their preparation. You're gonna make it. They're our heroes today. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-03-18	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-05-03-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, it's hard to interpret popularism as such. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: No wonder you can't interpret it!]] Ferenc Gyurcsány had a pact a few weeks ago, and your party president was sitting next to him. After that, talking about ethnicism and conservatism and right-wingism is the political absurdity that has been achieved. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: It's high for you!]] About graduations and openings. You demanded an opening when we were at the beginning of the third wave. [[Interview from Jobbik: We did not organise consultations for billions!]] A few days ago, your allies, with whom you already form a unity, made a pact with a strong criticism of the reboot. I understand you're on a different line again. I'd like to ask you to agree with each other. They're gonna run together. You are already a political community, at least on this one very serious issue you should have the same position and then be honest and make a proposal. [[Tibor Nunkovics: We can have our own thoughts, unlike you!]] As regards the decision on graduations, I would like to make it clear to you that any such decision will be taken after consultation with the epidemiological experts. Last year, the decision on graduations was criticized, and then the graduations went well, we know that under extraordinary circumstances. We would also like to express our appreciation to the teachers, who, in these circumstances, have undertaken and completed the preparation, and we would like to express our appreciation and thanks to the students, who, in such an extraordinary year, are able and prepared. Good luck with today's graduation exams and beyond. As far as the resolution is concerned, this is a thin explanation, honourable Member. What's this about? A resolution has been submitted by you practically all left-wing parties have signed [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks, and Jobbik's!]] LMP, PM, MSZP, DK and Jobbik as new left party [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] On this basis, certain vaccines could not have been used in Hungary at the time of submission, and these vaccines could not be used now. Not then, but now. So this would mean that more than four million vaccinees could have been given more than one million fewer vaccines in Hungary instead of more than four million vaccinees. Look at this decision we have made, especially when it comes to such a serious issue, that decision is a gamble. The thing is, no left-wing congressman stood up and said that I made a mistake, that it was irresponsible, so I'm gonna withdraw my signature. There wasn't one of you. [[Tamás Csányi: We've never seen anything like it before! We've never seen anyone get up there before.]] So you agree with this resolution, its content. By the way, if we look at their other statements, they attacked these types of vaccines in the same way as the other left-wing parties. It's called Russian roulette, it's called a lab, it's an experiment for the vaccination program, it's a Chinese thing, it's the formulation of your party president, so they were very involved in the anti-vaccination campaign. They have joined the darkest and most irresponsible political campaigns in recent decades. The Jobbik could have decided to stay out of this, but he didn't choose this. This clearly indicates the size of your margin of manoeuvre in the new pact of Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] That's it. Nothing. They don't have the opportunity to participate in such a dark campaign. And you know it, too, because you know very well that the effectiveness of the vaccination program depends on when we can put this difficult time behind us. [[Intercom from Jobbik: That's what we talked about!]] And while you are attacking this vaccination program, and it has its effect, because left-wing voters are in doubt, Hungary is still 41 percent grafted, compared to the 24 percent EU average. I understand that you are in every detail, trying to make everything seem like a failure, but regardless, the Hungarian vaccination program is effective in international comparison, and logistics professionals, doctors, nurses, soldiers, police officers ensure that this is the case, and will continue to be the case in the next few weeks. We do not expect you to start a thank-you campaign, that is not what a left-wing opposition party is supposed to do, but at least do not argue that Hungary is at the forefront of vaccinations among EU countries. [[A saying from the ranks of Jobbik: And in the number of the dead.]] I would add once again that if we had listened to you, this would not have been the case, we would have to wait for the shipments ordered by Brussels as much as they are expected in most countries in Europe and will not come. Which, by the way, has a lot of political tension. Nevertheless, the aim of the Hungarian government is to ensure that as many Hungarians as possible receive the vaccine as soon as possible, even if you do not support this effort. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-03-20	Thank you. István Hollik, representative of KDNP, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-03-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to start by thanking the teachers for their sacrifice on behalf of KDNP. They had to prepare students for graduation under difficult circumstances, but they did it anyway, thank you for that. And for the students who started their graduation exams today, on behalf of KDNP, we wish you good luck. And the second word should be thanks. Thank you to healthcare workers for doing everything they can to help those who are infected with the coronal virus to cure them, and it is thanks to health workers that we can say that Hungary is at the forefront of vaccinations, thanks to them that more than 4 million, according to the latest data, almost 4.1 million people are protected from the coronal virus by having already received the vaccine. Thank you again for your work. By reaching this important milestone, we could get back another slice of life, and many services will be available in Hungary. Here, I would like to take this opportunity to call the right-wing Member, the right-wing Members who have a yellow star and concentration camp in relation to the immunity certificate. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame!]] I've been mentioned. [[Pointing to Jobbik's lines:]] You, as well as Congressman György Szilágyi. [[Tamás Csányi: Me?]] Yeah, shame on you. This proves that you continue to rub against Ferenc Gyurcsány, you remain an anti-Semitic party. Nevertheless, life, thank God, can restart, and it is not so everywhere. I would like to say that, if you look at the Western European countries, where unfortunately they have relied entirely on the purchase of vaccines in Brussels, and therefore there are far fewer vaccines than in Hungary, there are still serious, strict restrictive measures in place. To this day, for example, in France, there is no more than ten kilometers away from home. Most services in Germany are not available. In the provinces where they are, there are only very strict restrictions and strict rules. Compared to this, we are pleased to say that life has restarted in Hungary, and we have left behind an important milestone in the re-launch of life and the economy, and we have finally arrived at this point in May: finally, in Europe, in a unique way, but not in vaccination, in the amount of vaccine, the bottlenecks will depend on the fact that the Hungarian people make a responsible decision and will inoculate themselves and will not believe the anti-vaccinations. [[12.00]] And speaking of anti-vaccination, it's pretty amazing, and it says a lot about the left, that as long as everyone's busy with the vaccinations, the protection against the epidemic, what the left is up to. On the one hand, with this fuss called the pre-election, the play that Ferenc Gyurcsány choreographs, but you say that you wish to do so, but not only do that, but you attack the defense, as you have done in the past year. Last week, it was made clear that they still do not support the fight against the epidemic, and in this spirit they will not vote for an extension of the extraordinary legal order. And here we heard a good-looking speech protesting that they were anti-vaccination. Honourable Congressman, Look at what your ally has just said, László Varju, who is sitting in the benches. He said last week, not months ago, on a TV show last week, that the Eastern vaccine was a false solution, the Eastern vaccine, which, by the way, has now been used to inoculate over a million people. He called it a fake solution! Or your other ally, Klára Dobrev, lied to the Hungarian people that, by the way, no one examined the Eastern vaccines that were placed on the market in Hungary. So you're telling us they're not anti-vaccination? Well, what are they, then? ! Plus, now every person can see that they're anti-vaccination. Thank God, less and less people believe you, but regardless, please stop your anti-vaccination campaign and be ashamed of it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Such a lie...]]
u2021-05-03-22	State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-05-03-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would like to begin with a quote from Ferenc Gyurcsány:. As long as I am president of DK, I will not allow DK to cooperate with Jobbik for political alliance. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. What will we experience today? Ferenc Gyurcsány asks Jobbik to support his wife in the primary election to become the joint candidate for Prime Minister of the Left. And when do they do that? At a time when doctors, nurses, policemen, administrative workers are organizing vaccinations on weekends, and we should actually encourage everyone to get vaccinated and get through the epidemic as soon as possible. But this is not important to the left, and as we know from your backgrounds, the left wants the longer the epidemic, the more victims it has in terms of health and the economy, because they think that you've made a philosophy out of it, that if the epidemic is longer, if there's more loss, the greater your chances of winning the parliamentary elections in 2022. This is what the left is dealing with, and we can see that they are very active in this, because when the British virus mutant appeared in Hungary and began to spread, István Ujhelyi demanded that the government decision in force be too strictly limited... It should be opened... It was unthinkable to impose government restrictions in November last year, it should be reviewed by the government on the 11th of November decree..., This is what you said when the British virus mutant began to spread. Or András Fekete-Győr said at the same time that it is time to abolish the meaningless rules and start reopening Hungary. Or Peter James here in Parliament, when he wasn't hovering dry pasta or potato bags like a parliamentary culinary blogger, he said, "We have to open, or we'll close for good." When it began to spread from hundreds to hundreds, thousands of thousands of British viral mutants, you demanded that we allow more space for the spread of the virus, open not only wildlife parks, zoos, but also restaurants and hotels. At a time when there was still a fraction of the graftation compared to what is now, honourable Members and gentlemen, you would have allowed more room for the virus. It also shows how irresponsible it was for you. And while you were campaigning for opening in January-February, you were campaigning against Eastern vaccines. And it is untrue, honourable Member, that any left-wing Member cannot present in Parliament his statement that his previous proposal will be withdrawn. Any one of you could, but none of you will, because in fact, you continue to hope that people will reject Eastern vaccines. And we saw Ferenc Gyurcsány's statements on the weekend: he gloated and said that people do not trust Eastern vaccines, while WHO experts have confirmed that the Chinese vaccine is as effective as any. So one expert is the World Health Organization, and the other is Ferenc Gyurcsány. And Ferenc Gyurcsány continues to try to turn people against Eastern vaccines, and we can see how tragic the consequences of this, even within his own party, are, but it doesn't matter. Nothing is important, because only the acquisition of power is important for the left. [[Intercom from the benches of opposition parties: This is what you are...]] Therefore, he will do whatever he can: he will attack vaccines that are otherwise recognized by everyone, or when the third wave of the virus rises, when the British virus mutant appears, he will encourage restaurants to open. But let's really look at this left-wing internal competition. Agnes Kunhalmi, behind whom the Jobbik proudly stands, well, what did he say about these goodies a year or two ago? Each vote cast on Jobbik is a vote in the trash. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's how he spoke then, and now he's asking you to vote for Agnes Kunhalmi together. Or Szabó Timea, on behalf of the left-hand side, always said that the point has come when I take it, even if it depends on one vote, I will not cooperate with Jobbik. He went on to say: "The whole Jobbik boycott is off to work, on my part there is no more cooperation on matters, total quarantine," said Szabó Timea a few years ago, and now all he does is court Jobbik. But this is also true on the other side, Dániel Z. Kárpát said a year or two ago: Ferenc Gyurcsány should be the main subject of accountability, who should be responsible for all his crimes at a later date. Now, however, they are working only for one thing, so that it can be as late as possible; that Ferenc Gyurcsány has the right to immunity as long as possible; that he should be the leader of the country. And the Jobbik that was created [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] To account for Ferenc Gyurcsány, he is now working on never having Ferenc Gyurcsány accounted for. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2021-05-03-24	Thank you. On the basis of personal concerns, I will give the floor in order of business for two minutes, Member György Szi-lágyi, representative of Jobbik. Here you go, Congressman. You're on for two minutes.
u2021-05-03-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I have just heard statements made by Congressman Hollik, which I would not like to repeat, because what Mr Hollik said is outrageous. [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties, among them: Who mentioned it? When did it happen? Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Shame on you!]] He put things in my mouth that I didn't say, so his statement to István Hollik was a lie. I will not repeat it because what you have said with these sentences is, in my opinion, outrageous. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.]] What was the fact, dear fellow Members, I had a Facebook entry about our day, and unfortunately it was misunderstood, and I used an inappropriate analogy. Therefore, if I have offended anyone's sensibilities, I, unlike you, who cannot ever apologize to anyone whose sensitivity I have offended. [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties: We do not say that. We don't do that.]] But here comes the but you have issued a statement on this, because you know more about what I was thinking than I did myself. [[Németh Szilárd István: Na!]] In this post, in my Facebook post, I dealt with daily politics, and I dealt with daily problems. At the metaphor, I referred to a day's horror, the reeducation camps of your great friend, where I am talking about China to this day, yes, Congressman Hollik, where people are locked up because they think otherwise than dictatorial power. [[Interjection from the benches of the governing parties: How does this come about, the order of business?]] So once again, I didn't make any statements that you put in my mouth. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.]] Your statement, at all what you said, I think it's outrageous and offensive, and once again, if anyone's sensitivity, because I was misunderstood, has been offended, I apologize to everyone. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: That's all I should have...]] I think that every life counts, every action that can be made of religion or race. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] or has crippled people in view of their origin, or [[The president's ringing again.]] You sent me to my death, that's a sin. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-05-03-26	Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor. [[12.10]]
u2021-05-03-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, For more than a year, we've had the crown virus on our life. At the end of the week behind us we arrived at another stage limit: since Saturday, the curfew has been changed to midnight, shops and catering units can be open until 11:00. The hotels, leisure facilities, zoos, museums, cinemas, theatres, gyms and sports events have been opened to those with immunity certificates. Children who have not yet been vaccinated can, of course, accompany their parents to these places. A week after opening the terraces, we could get a piece of our old life back this weekend. It is important to stress that there are now enough vaccines in Hungary, which is enough for all adults overall, so anyone who wants to be vaccinated has the opportunity. The vaccine is available, the vaccine is organized, and now it's up to the people to check in and get themselves vaccinated. For now, we are talking about adults, but from next week, May 10th, this opportunity will also be open to people over the age of 16. So we encourage everyone to take advantage of the opportunity to protect themselves and their loved ones, and if for any reason they haven't done so yet, come forward and pick up the vaccine. Ladies and gentlemen, This favourable situation, i.e. that all adults would be vaccinated, would not have been possible if we had relied solely on Brussels for the purchase of the vaccine. While we inoculated 50 percent of the adult population, those who were waiting for Brussels reached only 20 percent. Unfortunately, many in the West have made politics of this issue, watching vaccination through geopolitical glasses rather than looking at people's health. Unfortunately, there is a result. The bureaucrats in Brussels have fatally failed to purchase the vaccine. We're good with vaccinations because we didn't listen to people who wanted to talk us out of buying separate vaccines, we didn't let them tell us what to do. All this time, we have only considered one aspect: the interests of the Hungarian people. Hungary is among the first to turn to alternative sources of supply, but if everyone is already doing this, we might as well say that it is imitating us. Germany wants to order 30 million doses of the Sputnik vaccine, and the German Chancellor also said that it would be worth recognising each other's vaccinations with China. According to press reports, the World Health Organization, WHO, may approve the Sinopharm vaccine this week. Clearly, then, the concerns about Eastern vaccines were unfounded, the alarms were unfounded, and it would end with the same vaccinations in the West, much later than we were. Dear Parliament, According to a poll last week, 71 percent of the pro-government people would be vaccinated, while the left is only 59 percent. This is the result of the left-wing anti-vaccination campaign. Unfortunately, these campaigns have not been ineffective, and they have the result: there is a significant difference between people in terms of their willingness to be vaccinated based on party political sympathy. The left-hand side was chasing the vaccines all along, and a political action plan was set up, first at Christmas a strategist said that people's willingness to be vaccinated should be undermined, and later another analyst urged them to get votes out of the grief of those who mourned their deaths. The left has talked others out of vaccination, but they've been vaccinated, they're regularly looking for an attack against the government, they're trying to defeat us, the pro-government, not the epidemic. It's almost impossible to list the actions they've come up with to mislead people. There was fake news production, Kamuvideo, there was also a petition against the Chinese vaccine, and with the leadership of Ferenc Gyurcsány, a decision was submitted against the vaccine, which has not been withdrawn since. Fidesz repeatedly rejects this harsh attitude because human lives cannot be turned into politics. The new tactic on the left is to question the effectiveness of vaccinations. László Varju, vice-president of the Gyurcsány Party, called it a false solution to the vaccination of people in Hungary with an Eastern vaccine. He believes that this is why his party, the Democratic Coalition, is doing the right thing by criticizing the Russian and Chinese vaccines. We reject this, ladies and gentlemen, and we urge everyone to come forward and pick up the vaccine, because this is the guarantee of combating the epidemic, and finally of defeating it and getting our old lives back and having a free summer. Thank you, therefore, for the vaccinations, the organizing participants and our countrymen who took the vaccine. And finally, on the margins of today's graduation, I would like to congratulate all teachers and wish all graduates good luck. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-03-28	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Vargha wishes to respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-05-03-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, few vaccines are coming from the purchase in Brussels, and what is coming is also coming slowly. And why is that? It is simply because Brussels contracted late and concluded bad contracts. Moreover, these bad contracts were also concluded without taking into account that problems might arise during transport and that they failed to impose the usual and mandatory sanctions at this time. The Hungarian Government, the Hungarian Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister recognized the situation in relation to the acquisition of vaccines in the world, in Europe, long before last autumn, and with timely recognition and immediate response, we obtained the Russian and Chinese vaccine and enough vaccination, as we believe and believe that those who gain time will gain lives, save lives and jobs. This vaccine project in Brussels started a good business, and we joined it, but then the bureaucrats in Brussels ruined it badly. If we had listened to them and listened to political, anti-vaccination left-wing politicians in full service of the interests of Brussels, then by the end of May 3.5 million Hungarians would be less vaccinated in Hungary. On the other hand, the number of vaccinees is approaching 4 million to 100,000, and 2 million to 100,000 to the second vaccine. We can conclude that Hungary had the fastest vaccination rate in April, and the WHO leader in Europe acknowledged this. The Hungarian government's firm position is that we are not a colonial country of Brussels, and the country's leadership is ready and capable of making independent decisions if this is in the interests of the Hungarian people and protects and saves the lives of Hungarian people. We trust Hungarian professionals and the responsible decisions of Hungarian professionals. We do not think that the lives and health of Hungarian people can be exposed to any political, geopolitical or business, power games, as Hungarian people's lives are the first. The Hungarian grafting rate and the Hungarian vaccination rate are double the EU average, we have heard the number from the Secretary of State: 41 percent of the vaccine is grafted, whereas the EU average is only 24 percent. Out of the EU countries, Malta is the only one who precedes our country in terms of grafting. If the Hungarian government hadn't bought a Russian and Chinese vaccine, we would be around the EU average in terms of grafting, and this is a difference in human lives, not just a difference in numbers. The vaccine director of the European Union said that by the end of the summer, the population of the Union will be grafted 70 percent, so they will target the end of the summer, this result will be planned and calculated by the Hungarian government in Hungary at the beginning of the summer. Thus, shipments of Eastern vaccines are constantly arriving, and we have a good hope of preventing countries such as America, Britain or Israel in the foreseeable future, or at least of catching up with them in terms of grafting. This result is, of course, a joint success, and we should thank the nurses, doctors, general practitioners, volunteers, everyone who has contributed to this. I would like to thank the health care workers and volunteers in my town, Fehérvár, and the volunteers in the city. Hungary has committed 7 million doses of Russian and Chinese vaccines, so the total amount can protect the lives of 3.5 million people. We all remember the deepest points of the anti-vaccination left: Sándor Saniszló XVIII. The mayor of the district, the same as Gy. Erzsébet Németh, along with the DK mayors, said on a videotape, then on Klára Dobrev's password and slogan that Eastern vaccines would not help. I ask you, my fellow left-wing Members, to stop this lousy politics, to stop the anti-vaccination mood, to recognise that you are putting people's lives at risk, and to join my fellow Member, Mr Barna Zsigmond, I would like to ask all Hungarian people to sign up and get vaccinated. Let's take care of each other. It's in our mutual interest. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[12.20]]
u2021-05-03-30	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2021-05-03-31	Dear Parliament, Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Csaba Gyüre, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Gergely Farkas, independent; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Anita Kőrösi, Jobbik; János Stummer, Jobbik; János Bencsik, independent; László Varju, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Gergely Arató, DK; Z. Kárpát Dániel, Jobbik; Bősz Anett, DK; László Hajdu, DK; Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik; Ander Balázs, Jobbik.
u2021-05-03-32	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12:20 p.m., we'll start questioning. Ladies and gentlemen, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Can't you make one real, defenseable argument in addition to the outsourcing of Mezőhegyesi Ménes estate? It's an address. Congressman Zoltán Magyar has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Their relationship with the state lands is quite controversial, I think we can say that. Most of it was privatized, doing exactly the opposite of what was promised in opposition. What's left of it was boosted with public money, and then it was put out into foundation property. We are talking about the Mezőhegyesi Ménes estate, which is one of the last great agricultural assets of the Hungarian nation. For the sake of anyone who hasn't been there, I'm telling you that there's an extremely impressive built heritage group in the stud estate itself. In a unique way, the world has had four species of horses, so we should be proud of it. And, by the way, it has 30,000 hectares of state land, a large part of which can be irrigated. But it was the same as it was last week's universities, castles, resorts, public shares and countless other national assets: that is, they were organized into fidesz foundations. We're about to have a few questions, Mr. Secretary. Why, though, do they change their attitude to Mezőhegyes, for example? In the first round, these lands were privatized, bought by the local president of Fidesz, and then they transferred him with such a terrible amount of public money that he returned it to the Hungarian state, and he did not even go to trial, even though he had legally acquired these lands. How much did this local Fidesz driver get? How much public money has been invested in Mezőhegyes since then? This is a specific question. You've got it in time, Mr. Secretary. You might be able to answer that. If this was a bad construction over the years, then why put so much money into it? And if it wasn't a bad construction, why did you have to reorganize the entire estate into Fidesz foundations now? What are the arguments, Mr. Secretary? Of course, we are not going to let it go, and we are going to turn to the Constitutional Court, just like the rest of the foundational assets, and we hope that, like the slave law, it will be established here as well. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It doesn't work that way. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-03-34	Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-35	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, According to the figures for 2019, the state's assets amounted to HUF 17 000 to HUF 18 000 billion at the time of the previous government change in 2010 compared to HUF 10 billion. Thus, unlike the Member's suggestion, in the last ten years, the level of state wealth has clearly increased. The governments before 2010 were kept alive by the HUF 1 000 billion from privatisation each year due to their failed economic policy decisions, with the end of the IMF loan, the drastic increase in public debt and the dramatic rise in unemployment. It is precisely the chariot of those who made these decisions: they sold the airport, the state companies were privatised, and this is the most important, the National Farm and the Economy. That way, we shouldn't have to account for that either. We decided to save the company and its land assets, which is not 30, but 10 000 hectares, if we organize it into model farms, which can help the entire Hungarian agricultural sector. If I recall correctly, honourable Member, [[Turning to Hungarian Zoltán:]] You also voted in favour of the Law on the National Farms of Mezőhegyes. In the case of Mezőhegyes, we laid down guarantee rules. We want to exclude all forms and possibilities of privatisation, and, of course, the state fields of Ázőhegyes must serve a public purpose in the field of public education and the organisation of the model economy. State property will remain state-owned. The Foundation receives a right to manage assets, but the trust is subject to a disposal and debit ban. As regards the capital increase, Zrt received a capital increase of HUF 45 billion in recent years from 2016 onwards, which was spent on several investments. At the same time, he won some 800 million forints last time. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The Tourism Agency's application also includes hotel development. I ask you, honourable Member, to accept my reply in the light of these. Because of the shortness of time, I can complete it orally. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-03-36	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Office a question: why does the government give up EU funds that can be used for important purposes? What can higher education institutions expect? It's an address. Congressman Sándor Szabó has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-37	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The Prime Minister made it clear to the President of the European Commission that Hungary is submitting its re-launch plan to support the EU's Restoration Fund. It is more than incomprehensible why the government renounces 57 percent of HUF 5800 billion, while we know precisely that the government takes on thousands of billions of Russian and Chinese loans, which are likely to cost more than EU funds. The government's plans also show what funding would be for, but the Fidesz Cabinet does not want to spend money on this, including transparency of public procurement, unemployment contributions to extend his time or even to fight corruption. It is also well known that the Restoration Fund would also want to provide funding for the renovation of universities, a figure that was mentioned earlier, some HUF 1500 billion. However, I believe that as the government renounces a significant proportion of EU funds, it would be best taken from the budget for the development of universities in the limited plan. This is also due to the fact that the European Commission has indicated that the organisation of universities in the Foundation will make the use of EU funds difficult to transparent and trace, which is not acceptable, so that the government would rather resign from a significant part of the funds allocated to universities than go into such an important, politically sensitive battle with the Commission; although the main argument of the university model change to both the institutions and the public was that an unprecedented EU resource of HUF 1500 billion would flow to higher education. Therefore, I have two questions: why does the government give up EU funds that can be used for important purposes, such as extending the period of unemployment benefit or strengthening the independence of the judiciary, or fighting corruption? As well as after the significant resignation of EU funds, how much can higher education institutions, including the University of Szeged, expect against the 1500 billion forints previously announced? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-05-03-38	The answer is addressed to Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-05-03-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I can inform the congressman that your information is incorrect. Universities themselves formulated their own development needs and made them available to the government. This is broadly equivalent to the amount you mentioned in your speech, and I can inform you that these development resources will be obtained either from the universities or from the Hungarian budget source, or from the EU budget source for the next period, mostly from GINOP, or from the so-called RRF, the Restoration Fund. In this respect, we will choose the solution that is most important for Hungary and the Hungarian budget, and we believe that it is important for universities that these funds arrive as soon as possible. We can achieve these two goals at the same time. As regards the RRF, it is also public what the government's priority list is, what it would like to spend these resources on: demography, public education, the renewal of universities, catching up settlements, greening, digital development, health and the items referred to by you, such as public procurement, are also packaged as compliance with so-called horizontal conditions. You just asked me why we don't charge RRF with payroll and contributions. I would like to tell you that we would like to account for it, so if you and your party have lobbying powers, use it in Brussels. For example, we are trying to account for medical raises, but at the moment we are facing resistance from the direction of Brussels. So, for example, this could be a point where we could work together to improve Hungarian people's wellbeing, not in our disagreement. By the way, I would like to ask for your cooperation in order to succeed in implementing the entire plan. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] [[12.30]] However, what we've seen so far is that we're most likely to encounter political mischief on your side. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-03-40	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. The SZFE has already broken the Data Protection Act. Is that what the other Fidesz colleges are up to? It's an address. Mr. Gergely Harvesto, the floor is for the notary. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-41	Dear House, The rather outrageous and unusual case occurred in the newly fideszed institution of the SZFE that the admissions were sent to the admissions staff by sending a letter informing them that the e-mail address of all the other admission students was immediately included in the address, which is an absolute school mistake, and of course this is a strict or serious violation of data protection laws. In addition, applicants were informed that they would be able to audition in 2011, which seems a little late in 2021. In the following letter, applicants were informed that they would provide all their data and the documents required for admission from the university within three days, and that they would later be informed that, yes, this is not the case, but that the original deadlines would apply. Dear Secretary of State, These are serious mistakes that have occurred in state higher education in the past, and I don't know how long, but maybe in 30 years, they didn't happen. It is amazing that they have managed to reorganize the SZFE in such a way that they can no longer function normally. I could ask you with the classic joke, is this communism or is it gonna get worse? Because you justified the restructuring of the entire higher education by giving students a much better opportunity. Yeah, well, they can't even ensure elementary function. If the SZFE is the sample, can we expect that the other universities, privatized for Fidesz, will have complete administrative collapse, chaos and confusion in the near future? Thank you very much.
u2021-05-03-42	I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The thing is, I have to inform you that the University of Theatre and Film has been a maintainer for the University of Theatre and Film for eight months, and I guess you missed that. [[Gergely Harvesto: Not at all!]] Right here in the middle of all the hysterical shit. While we are making improvements and changes that help the future and competitiveness of Hungarian universities, you do not support these changes. It's a shame, Your Honour. It can also be seen that this change has also been good for the University of Theatre and Film Arts, as we have raised its budget by HUF 3 billion, and the plan for their new campus is also 30 billion. He also prepared and prepared this together with the university and the university, and the government also supports this development, as they can get better conditions from unworthy, miserable, poor buildings and classrooms, under international conditions, with much better funding. By the way, as a first step, honourable Member, you have forgotten to report this here and in the public, the former headquarters of Duna TV will be the new centre of motion picture education. And it is also clear that the students voted in confidence for the changes, as this year more people applied to the University of Theatre and Film Arts despite your hystericalisation, as last year, 1827 people applied to the university. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-03-44	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question. Is the LEADER programme important to the Government of Hungary? It's an address. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Let's talk about LEADER. The government also considers meaningful dialogue important, don't you think it's important to develop the countryside? I would like to know that the Minister knows that the first phase of the calls for proposals to meet the needs of civil and municipal citizens in the local rural areas only appeared with a three-year delay. And do you know that the Kecskemét branch of the Agricultural Ministry has been failing to meet the approval of the second, often identical calls for proposals for months, often for more than six months, and that rural people are waiting for the opportunities to apply in vain? Does the Minister know that the LEADER organisations have repeatedly contacted the Minister with procedural proposals, but so far they have either rejected all the initiatives, or have they simply failed to respond? Do you know, Minister, that the representatives of LEADER organisations have initiated dialogue with the competent State Secretary several times over the last few months, but the initiatives have been ignored and not even appreciated in response? Do you know, Minister, that LEADER organisations have not been involved in the development of the 2021-27 rural development programme, to be more precise: have they been tacitly excluded from it, while the programme is also about them and the population in their territory? Do you know that the Government of Hungary has violated Article 8 of the regulation of 2014/240? Is it true that the LEADER programme and this rural demand based on local decisions are being excluded from the increased funding framework that the government intends to provide for the Hungarian countryside? Does the countryside mean only 200-300 thousand farmers for the government, who live directly from agriculture, or the four million voters who live in the Hungarian countryside? Thank you very much.
u2021-05-03-46	Thank you. Sándor Farkas, State Secretary, will answer on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-47	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You are well aware that the Government of Hungary strongly supports Community initiatives based on local organisation that are created for the economic development of the countryside, including the LEADER programme, which is part of the rural development programme. So far, the LEADER calls have been decided by 8814 supporters, which represents the grant of nearly HUF 36 billion, and more than half of the proposals have already been implemented. The operation of the LEADER programme is an obligation based on EU law, so the government does not know and does not want to exclude LEADER from the increased rural development funding framework. In fact, the government further increased the available resources from HUF 63 billion to HUF 80 billion by amending the rural development programme in April. This amount is now about 60 percent higher than it was when the program was launched. The Ministry of Agriculture has already dealt with the management of LEADER calls for proposals, as you mentioned, at the Kecskemét State Secretariat, a separate department, and local action groups' own rapporteurs deal with LEADER calls for proposals. In addition, there is a regular consultation between the LEADER groups and the Ministry's staff on calls for proposals at a regional meeting, so it is not true that proposals rationalising the procedure will not be heard and, on the contrary, many of them will be included in the application system. I would also like to mention that the planning work started in the summer of 2019 with the participation of around 600 people on 21 occasions with the participation of the Chamber of Agriculture, and eight consultations, with the participation of 1700 people on different programmes, will continue, and another consultation process will be launched on 7 May. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-03-48	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister:. Will the government devote the resources of the Rehabilitation Facility to genuine green and crisis management measures? It's an address. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The government's plan to spend the European recovery framework in Hungary has been made public. We had three major problems with the plan, but now it seems that there is a fourth one, that the plan was not delivered to Brussels until 30 April. I don't know if I'm wrong, then correct me, Mr. Secretary. [[12.40]] The first problem is the lack of coordination: while the EU requires this, there was no meaningful consultation. The eloquent evidence of this is that none of the proposals of the City Council have been included in the plan. This is definitely not a negotiation. Our second problem is that the plan is not to help the losers of the plague. In the past, it was unthinkable that such EU funds would not go to development. It is now also possible to do what the EU would point out that Hungary should extend the duration of the job search support to at least nine months. This could not be described in the plan, even though it is here for the shortest time in the European Union. And the third is the climate targets. You too feel that this is the weakest point of the plan. And they've really worked hard, reading the proposal to make it look like they're following the EU directive. Of course, they look good on paper, but it may not lead the EU. Most of the climate targets are construction projects, and we know who benefits. But if there was at least the possibility of launching a gang program from these construction projects, it would be possible to renovate old gang houses without any part of it, the local residents would be able to make heating upgrades, doors and windows switch, then this program would be climate friendly. So my questions are, have you submitted the plan yet? If not, why? When will they? Will the government accept at least one proposal from the capital? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Are you willing to provide resources for the losers of the epidemic in this program? Are there any gang programs on this plan? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-05-03-50	Thank you. The answer will be given on behalf of the government, Mr. Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-05-03-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In the context of the so-called RRF recovery framework, we are talking about a little over EUR 16 billion in total. This has a so-called support part and a credit line part. The government has decided, of course, to use the support part, this is also an indirect credit facility at EU level, but we still want to finance our developments from this, and we decide on the drawdown of the credit line on a project basis. You are certainly aware of the EU's debates on the design of these constructions. This is specifically about reducing the negative economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic and certain infrastructure, including the 21st century. This is about supporting the technological transition in the last century. Within this framework, we have identified ten priority axes: demography; university renewal; catching up settlements; water management; sustainable green transport; energy and in this context greening; circular economy; digitalisation reform in the field of competitiveness; health and compliance with so-called horizontal conditions. In this, the priorities you have challenged are there. Unfortunately, I think we should agree that these types of developments and transitions require major investment in infrastructure, without which Hungary could not achieve the goals that are needed. There is continuous consultation with the capital, and there is continuous consultation with the local governments. We want to support as many of these projects as possible. And actually, the government's decision, as I said in my previous speech, is not affected in a negative way, so we would like to ask you for support in implementing the programme. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-03-52	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mária Kállai, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Where is the section between M4 Abony Törökszentmiklós? When will the Abony-Törökszentmiklós phase be delivered? It's an address. Congresswoman Maria Kállai has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The dynamic development of the Hungarian motorway network, we can say, is a serious result of the Fidesz-KDNP governance. The special pleasure for me is that the surroundings of my constituency, Szolnok and Szolnok are also part of this development through the M4 road, because by building the road to the border of Szolnok, the airport itself is practically closer to the seat of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, Szolnok Airport itself, and it is shorter and not to mention that the journey to Budapest has become safer. It was a pleasure for us to have the day, 23 July 2020 when a significant section was handed over; and we could already see that it was being built, the northern side of the M4 Szolnok to Turkish bypass continues with steam. Of course, we know that this section of the road, which is being built right now, which requires most of the artifacts, because it has to be passed through flood areas, I could tell you more. But it must also be said that the construction of this road section is important not only for Szolnok, of course very important, but it is very important for those small settlements in the constituency, Zagyvarékas, Beseny nail, Battle angle, Kőtelek, Hunyadfalva, Nagykörű, which, with the proximity of the road, can become more connected to the development of the economy, their retention power, the development of the Hungarian village, and the strengthening of the road network makes life more attractive in these small settlements, and I think that this is also a very, very important issue. Not to mention, it is also easier to get there with the bypass road and the possibility of connecting small settlements, who do not know these beautiful areas. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you how, with the progress of the investment, we can see from Szolnok to Budapest every day, how the developers are progressing, when the Abony-Törökszentmiklós section is expected to be handed over, which I think is very much expected in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-03-54	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In 2010, 14 county-righted cities and three national borders were available on four-track roads, by the end of 2020 they were able to move forward to 19 in the connection of rural settlements and 7 in the international connections of the domestic network. According to our plans, with further improvements, we will be able to reach every county-righted city and 9 border posts in 25 by four lanes. In 2021, road development continues with unbroken momentum throughout the country, even in the face of a coronal virus epidemic. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The construction of the M4 motorway also contributes to these goals; the already passed sections allow drivers to drive faster and safer. The M4 is already available in Pest county, while the motorists can use the second highway connection to Transylvania and Romania by handing over the road near the border. The missing parts of the expressway are still under construction, and between Abony and Törökszentmiklós, the two-track car is built about 25 km long, which is expected to be owned by road users at the beginning of next year. A new Tisza-arter bridge will be built on this section, as you have mentioned, honourable Member. Dear Parliament, Thanks to the outstanding work and performance of Hungarian people, Hungarian companies, the implementation can be carried out using domestic resources, and thanks to them, as M4 will make a significant contribution to the development and competitiveness of both the region and Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-03-56	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, an independent representative, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-57	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The graduation exams started today. I would also like to wish all the young people who are testing themselves from this day forward. At the same time, we know very well what a stressful situation this alone is for a young person, but this year, in addition, they have to face the fact that despite being asked for by many people, and even though it would make sense, the government does not provide a replacement for all those who are coronal virus infected, don't give, as contact persons can't attend one of their exams. But let's start from the beginning. Contrary to what many have asked, the government has decided that in October this year, those who are unable to take one of their graduation exams can take the exams for the reasons stated above. In addition, Zoltán Maruzsa said that he saw the photos taken after the opening of the terrace, and hoped that the graduates had the responsibility to avoid such mass scenes, because it was in their interest to participate in the written graduation exams. [[12.50]] Well, I would like to draw the attention of Zoltán Maruzsa and the other decision makers to the fact that it is quite narrow to think that young people can only catch the coronal virus on the terraces. In view of the current epidemiological data, it is possible that they will be at home, despite all their attention and caution, with a crown virus, because the little brother is already in school, parents have to work, public transport, shopping, parents can take home the coronal virus, so that he can become a young person or contact person, and from now on he can't take the graduation exam, and if he can't take the graduation exam, he can't get a certificate, and without a diploma, he won't be admitted to the higher education institution. This affects many tens of thousands of young people, not only those who are 18 years old this year, but also those who are going to improve their graduation exams. I therefore believe that, in this exceptional situation, it would be particularly justified that, in view of the epidemic, students who catch the virus should not be punished plus, but should be given an additional date. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] My question to the Secretary of State is why there is no replacement date for coronal viral infections or for students who are quarantined as contact persons at the written graduation test. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-05-03-58	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In the following weeks, 111 750 students will begin their graduations at 1159 locations, for whom we wish very good success and good results. Let's hope they can do well in difficult times. You can still graduate under very strict safety standards, so for example, you can stay in a room with up to 10 testers, you have to keep a distance of one and a half meters, hand sanitizers are centrally provided this year, just like last year, for every school, every test site. We also centrally provide the protective mask and gloves to the supervising teachers, and it is only recommended that students use the protective mask during their written time. So we've been trying to ensure the safety of students in all areas, by measuring entry temperature, by keeping distance and everything else. That's what we did last year. Last year, you, the entire Hungarian left, would have abolished graduations, and there would have been many, tens of thousands of students in Hungary in complete uncertainty. Fortunately, we didn't listen to you, we didn't pass the exam, but these students could start their studies in the chosen higher education institution or start working. All the information about the exams can be read on the Education Office website, all the rules have been published in advance. Last spring graduation, which you attacked in every way, has produced the same result as in previous years, with a 3.61 percent average. [[Zoltán Balczó: Him? Independent congressman!]] and the number of repeats decreased by 40 percent. It was also very important to ensure the safety of teachers, which is why 200,000 people in education have been extradited in order to make it as safe as possible to return to schools. You know that the WHO leader, when he was in Hungary, repeated his previous proposal: schools should be closed and opened for the first time during an epidemic. So you are arguing with the WHO, I see, honourable Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Gregory Farkas: You're pathetic!]]
u2021-05-03-60	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Finance: This year it is also appropriate to extend the deadline for submitting balance sheets! Why delay the decision? It's an address. Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, According to the Ministry of Finance's website, there are 514 thousand social enterprises in Hungary and nearly 100 thousand non-profit organizations with legal personality that are required to prepare a balance sheet report. Also, according to the information, there are 53 400 registered accountants in our country today who are responsible for ensuring the transparency of economic organisations and for making them available to all economic operators. Last year, in the first wave, you rightly decided to change the deadline for submission of balance sheets and tax returns from 31 May to 30 September. Now, in the third wave, the accounting offices have also fallen into the restriction that they have not been allowed to receive customers in the past period for months, so personal meetings have been cancelled, and important discussions on the 2020 tax year could not have taken place. A civil society organisation also came to you and asked for a further extension of the deadline until 30 September, but the answer was that members' meetings could also be held online. Indeed, members' meetings can be held online, but in order for these reports to be prepared and presented to members' meetings, owners can approve the 2020 annual closure, very serious professional work must take place in the accounting offices. Not to mention that the vast majority of accountants are women, and in recent years, during digital education, they have often had to stay at home with their children, so it was particularly difficult to prepare balance sheets, not to mention those who personally direct the inventory. We consider it justified to extend the deadline for reporting for the year 2020 and therefore I respectfully ask Mr State Secretary how you feel about this. I trust a positive decision. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-03-62	Thank you. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, last year, following the outbreak of the pandemic, we extended the period of reporting and filing together with the closure of the country; this also covered the balance sheet report and the submission of the tax return, instead of 31 May, it became 30 September. I'm glad you're supporting this in hindsight. However, we see that the situation is different at the moment. The situation is different, because the goal is to restart the country, to recover normalized life, and to return it, which includes fulfilling obligations by the deadline. We acknowledge that accounting professionals and accounting offices have done a great deal of work in recent years, and they are doing a great deal of work right now, thanking you for your persistent, sacrificial work. This year, 31 May will remain the general deadline for submission, but if anyone, any company, any accounting office has a problem or difficulty in fulfilling the deadline, which was created in connection with the Covid epidemic, they may request that they fulfil their obligation not on 31 May but in the subsequent period. The Ministry of Finance has asked the IRS to consider the reasons for the coronal virus epidemic in the applications submitted as particularly worthy of the circumstances and to assess the applications so submitted in a totally positive manner. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] The option turns around: it doesn't automatically apply to everyone, the extension is granted if you apply for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-03-64	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Zita Gurmai, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology: It's an address. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-65	Thank you very much. Dear House, The South Korean SK Innovation, one of the world's largest battery companies, laid the foundation stone for its Komárom plant in 2018. The investments revealed that the industrial park needed more water, so it was suggested that the karst region of Tata and Tatabánya would also be turned into the water supply. The project was also supported by the government, which allowed the creation of 1050/2020. Government decision, in which significant amounts are allocated to the implementation of the Tata-Komárom plumbing. At the same time, signs of the adverse effects of the investment on the Tata region have started to multiply. The county government found that a detailed environmental impact assessment was necessary in the case, since the planned water expansion significantly reduces the water flow of the Bright Bath and other urban resources in Tata, and it is estimated that up to 40 percent of the water could disappear from the sources of Lake Military. This would cause extreme damage to the wildlife of the source region and endanger the surrounding nature reserves. Based on what has been done so far, it is much more justified to ensure the water supply of the Komárom industrial park, in addition to the development of the existing Komárom water base, by building the Győsei power line, since the involvement of Tata resources would cause far more damage than it would profit. To my written question so far, the wallet merely said that the investment would meet the environmental aspects. [[13.00]] This unsubstantiated statement is all, but not at all reassuring. Therefore, I ask again why the government supports an investment that is clearly dangerous to the resources of Tatabánya and Tata. Why not withdraw the decision to build the Tata-Komárom pipeline because of the foreseeable environmental risks? I wonder, Mr. Secretary, how you can answer me that. Thank you.
u2021-05-03-66	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. You have the floor.
u2021-05-03-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government is committed to developing and modernising high quality drinking water. Our aim is to ensure that all Hungarians have clean and healthy drinking water. This is also the purpose of the investment you mentioned, and I do not understand why you are attacking the access of residents in the area to natural and healthy drinking water. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The aim of the development is to build a high-capacity drinking water pipeline between the municipalities of Tata and Komárom, through which 10 thousand cubic metres of drinking water can be delivered to the drinking water system in Komárom every day from the karst water bases of Tata and Tatabánya. This water is of higher quality and healthier drinking water than water from the Danube, the Kopánymonostor wells, whose primary area of use is the industrial park. You're attacking this. It's completely incomprehensible. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Investment in the industrial park in Komárom is of particular importance for the national economy, not only regionally, but also nationally has a positive impact on the competitiveness of the economy, and it also creates jobs for the people living there, which is why it does not attack this investment! Believe that the government will pay particular attention to ensuring that everything is in line with the regulations in force, so it will also monitor strict compliance with environmental requirements. The authorities and the bodies carrying out the investment are currently in the process. I therefore ask you, honourable Member, not to try to influence these processes simply for political reasons, let the professionals work for once. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Although we know that this kind of attitude is close to the successor of MSZMP, it still brings back unfair and bad times when politics wants to tell professionals how to do their job. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-03-68	Good afternoon. We'll get back to work. We will continue our work by warning you from time to time to respect house rules in terms of time frame. So I wish you all a good job. [[Tamás János Schanda: Thank you very much.]] Zoltán Varga is now taking part in this because DK's representative wants to ask the Prime Minister what help can the Hungarian citizen expect from his government if the country is in trouble? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda will respond if he accepts it. [[Dr. Zoltán Varga: Thank you very much.]] Here you go.
u2021-05-03-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I find it infinitely embarrassing that I have not been able to meet the Prime Minister, but it is likely that the sour pickle season at the Castle has begun, and so it has a million things to do with it. Speaking of the Castle, obviously there is no poverty in the Castle, and the Prime Minister has long forgotten that when he and his buddy Lőrinc were eating sausage-fat bread sitting in the kitchen of a small house on the side of the village. So he couldn't understand what a pound of chicken breast was doing on the handle of his office. Therefore, I would like to translate it from Hungarian to Hungarian, so that he, the proud, arrogant and pompous Prime Minister, understands how much the humiliating HUF 900 monthly pension increase is worth. We can see very well that the Prime Minister has been very fond of Russian things lately, so let's watch Russian beluga caviar. About half a gram of this would come from the 900 forints pension increase to a pensioner every month. I see that he also lives for the Chinese Communists, the Prime Minister bows to communist statues regularly, so let's see the Chinese nest soup. A cup of this would be about 25,000 forints, half a spoon for each pensioner from the 900 forints pension increase. Orbán says we know the pálinka is a basic food. Congratulations on that, and the only battle he ever won in his life was a schnapps-freedom fight. So perhaps you can understand that a pensioner could drink less than a quarter of his favorite T9 fig line, which he gave to the nation's cockroach. I hope this will get to the mind of our Prime Minister as well as the humiliating average pension increase of HUF 878. This drama, ladies and gentlemen, as you deal with economic and social problems, is even more deplorable than the failure of the fight against the epidemic, despite the fact that we know very well that 27 thousand victims have died so far. Not only did you not help pensioners, but you have left your job to the losers with Europe's most ferocious unemployment benefits, and this could be classified for an infinity. Is it really normal for Hungarian society to rely on you in this kind of insanity? Thank you very much.
u2021-05-03-70	Thank you. Secretary Schanda, please.
u2021-05-03-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Gergely Arató, Sándor Burány, László Donáth, Ferenc Gyurcsány, László Hajdu, István Hiller, Lajos Korózs, Attila Mesterházy, Csaba Molnár, Gyula Molnár, Zsolt Molnár, Lajos Oláh, László Szakács, István Ujhelyi, Ágnes Vadai, László Varju. Do you know why I listed your old-new partymates? Mr. Congressman, do you know that? Because they all voted to take the 13th month's pension. [[Intruders from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] You were, by the way, a proud municipal representative of the Communist successor party. Are you going to stand up in Parliament and talk about pensions, honourable Member? While it is the national civilian government that is correcting your mistake and restoring the 13th month pension; what you have taken away from pensioners, we will return it. Honourable Congressman, You did nothing to help the Hungarian people when they had the chance. Your party is led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, who has scratched the Hungarian families and who has brought our country to the brink of bankruptcy. You represent the left, honourable Member, which taxed the family allowance, reduced the duration of the child, raised the general rate of VAT by 5 percentage points, took a month's wages from the public sector and raised the retirement age. Congressman, shame on you, shame on your entire party. Honourable Congressman, You've already had a chance to make yourself laugh with your performances. We all remember when he wrapped his head in tinfoil and made himself laugh. Allow me, Congressman, to say that I would not follow this path if I were you. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes!]] and it would have been better if we had a real debate here on real issues rather than such crazy performances. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-03-72	Dear Parliament, Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. How do you intend to reduce the loss of more than 100,000 children in the digital agenda? It's an address. Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Congresswoman, please.
u2021-05-03-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Children have not only changed their normal lives but have also been affected by the enforcement of their educational rights during pre-school and school closures imposed as a result of epidemiological restrictions. Last May, about 10 percent of the children were virtually lost in digital education. Unfortunately, there are still no detailed public surveys of how many children have not had access or have not had access to digital education properly during institution closures. Specialized in child protection, in children's homes, in foster care networks, where there are probably not as many computers as necessary, and in disadvantaged settlements, this is the case. In many cases, the lack of tools is not a problem, but rather a lack of digital competences or simply a lack of physical space at home, in the apartment, the ability to provide the child with at least 3 square meters of his own area, where he can study online. On April 19th, kindergartens and elementary schools opened. And for the others, the school gates open on 10 May. Opening may be questionable in the light of epidemiological data, but it can facilitate the enforcement of educational and child rights, especially in disadvantaged areas. Nevertheless, only opening up institutions is not enough to fill the gaps and reduce the harm caused by them. I would therefore like to have the answer to this question as soon as possible. By what means do you intend to create the chance for all children to face the enormous disadvantages of education restrictions that have lasted for a year and of digital divides? Thank you very much. [[13.10]]
u2021-05-03-74	Secretary Bence Rétvári, here you go.
u2021-05-03-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In all countries of the world, it is difficult to solve the education and education of students when there are restrictions on viruses. In this digital education Hungary, when compared to other countries, has passed the exam well. But this shows that the most important thing is obviously the issue of vaccines, that the more people are vaccinated, because the sooner we reach the appropriate level of grafting, the more it is possible to return to schools at low risk or without danger, and this does not pose a future threat to students or teachers. The fact that 200,000 educators and school workers have been inoculated out of order can increase their safety and the safety of the students. All of our measures concerned the minimum possible disadvantage for schoolchildren in these months. That is why we opened up the possibility of personal or small group consultations during the third wave. So if someone at school wanted to meet their teacher or students, they could do this in small groups, while minimising the epidemiological risks. If you look at the OECD's studies of how much access to the Internet is available to Hungarian students, 98,5 percent of Hungarian students have Internet access, we are in a group with Denmark, Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Austria, Finland, Germany or England, and we are ahead of France, Spain or Italy. This is also due to the recent rise in the number of households with the Internet from 51 percent in 2010 to 86 percent. In this, too, the Digital Prosperity programme could also provide additional support for those in a more difficult situation for whom she was also concerned, and the family background is now less decisive in terms of differences in performance. From the PISA survey, it is clear that while it was 26 percent at the beginning of our governance, it has now fallen below 20 percent, 19.1 percent. So it's less negatively affected by the more difficult family background. So we tried to help the more difficult in schools and in all other ways. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-03-76	Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, Would you like to take the government's own authority to ensure that the economic victims of the coronal virus are not on the streets and extend the moratorium? It's an address. State Secretary Pál Völner will respond. Congressman, here you go.
u2021-05-03-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On 23 March, the Fidesz majority of the Parliament's Justice Committee rejected the bill for the extension of the eviction moratorium, so the moratorium will end tomorrow, i.e. on 4 May, and the eviction proceedings will start again from this day. People in distress, civilians dealing with the housing crisis and opposition parties have been begging the government for months not to put people on the streets at least in view of the Crown Virus crisis when the problem is greatest. Now there are a lot more people who have lost their jobs, almost half a million people who cannot find jobs, and it cannot be possible for them to be on the street now or in crowded homeless facilities, because of such situations it is much more difficult to get back on their feet. Procrastination of evictions alone is certainly not the solution. The government needs to do much more than that, a housing policy that makes housing affordable for everyone and prevents the most vulnerable from being indebted. In addition to maintaining the moratorium, act without delay on the re-introduction of housing and debt reduction aid terminated years ago, otherwise masses may become homeless in May. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the petition to extend the moratorium has already been signed by nearly 10,000 people. I therefore ask Mr Secretary of State why the Government and the pro-government representatives did not support the opposition proposal to extend the moratorium. Would the government have the authority to avoid the economic victims of the coronal virus and extend the moratorium? I look forward to your reply.
u2021-05-03-78	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State Pál Völner has the floor. Here.
u2021-05-03-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The government, assessing the impact of the emergency on the national economy and changing living conditions of the population, has taken a number of exceptional measures, including measures of a financial and social nature within the framework of economic protection measures, which together are capable of supporting citizens and their families in a difficult situation as a result of an emergency situation. In this context, it should be pointed out that, like last year, the Government's decree on the re-introduction of certain procedural measures in the event of an emergency once again made a difference in court enforcement proceedings. According to the Government Decree, from 8 March 2021 until 4 May 2021, the executioner shall not, inter alia, arrange for the auctioning of the property belonging to the natural person, and for the evacuation of any property in that context, nor shall it take action to carry out an on-the-spot procedural action to evacuate property. A decisive aspect in the design of all implementing procedures is to strike a balance between two conflicting interests, in particular the interests of the applicant for enforcement and the interests of the debtor. When limiting these interests against each other, careful consideration is needed, since the main way of civil rights claims is judicial enforcement, including child support claims, the return of which cannot be suspended in the light of the emergency situation, as it would already jeopardise the living conditions of the child in need of maintenance. However, the payment of debts to debtors is a heavy burden, and therefore the law on judicial enforcement contains a number of provisions taking into account the interests of the debtor. Overall, I can tell you that you will be able to vote again on our bill on maintaining an emergency, then the government will be in and is in a position to take positive action with regard to the eviction moratorium. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-03-80	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Demeter, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question: what means does the Government intend to use to support the economic opportunities of people living in Borsod? It's an address. Secretary Tamás Vargha will answer you. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The negative effects of the coronal virus pandemic can also be felt in the economy. In the media, we can see that factories have closed in several countries, companies have gone bankrupt, and people have been massed out. This has not happened in Hungary, because during the epidemic, we have also taken decisions that allow our own economy to restart. In my constituency, in Edeleny, as Minister Péter Szijjártó said, one of the most robust investment incentives in Hungary's history was launched by the government in order to make Hungary one of the winners of the world economy through the capacity created here. With the support of HUF 100 million from the government, Eclipse Print Kft. It will invest 200 million forints in the printing industry, which will secure the position of 64 employees. I would also like to add that in Edelény there are 10 hectares of industrial land built on state and EU spinning of HUF 724 million, where four companies have already indicated their investment intention. This investment will provide jobs and a stable livelihood for many families in Borsodi. The Government of Hungary rightly recognised that instead of aid, austerity and tax increases, we need jobs, investments and tax reductions. Thank you to the government that, during the period of the virus, it has always been in the interests of the Hungarian people, the economy and the country, and let us trust that Hungary will be the winner of the fight against the economic crisis. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what means the government intends to use to support the economic opportunities of people living in Borsod. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-03-82	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Tamás Vargha, here you go.
u2021-05-03-83	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As a result of the corona virus, the world economy has started an incredibly intense competition for the redistribution of released capacities and the filling of market gaps, and this situation, like any new situation, has winners and losers. It is clear that the winners will be the countries that have taken the decisions that will enable their economy to be restarted. With this in mind, the Hungarian government announced one of the biggest investment incentives in Hungarian history to create, come here and come to our country with the capacities that will make Hungary one of the winners. [[13.20]] The results have already been encouraging, with an investment rate of 28% last year, making us third in Europe. The government has never supported so many investments in one year before. This represents 1435 support, and 270 000 jobs have been saved. And the vitality of the Hungarian economy is demonstrated by the fact that 80 percent of the supported small and medium-sized investments are carried out by Hungarian companies. It is beneficial for the economic prospects of the county of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén that the county plays an important role in the competitiveness-enhancing programmes carried out by HIPA and the KKM. A total of 56 investments will be made in your county with two programmes, representing HUF 51 billion in investment volumes and 24 thousand retained jobs, and the state aid totals HUF 17 billion. HIPA affects your county of 13 out of 97 key operating capital investments last year, and 13 projects represent EUR 450 million in volume and 1300 new jobs. I think the government is proving its support for the people of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-03-84	Thank you. Congressman Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister responsible for innovation and technology: what does the government intend to do to reduce the number of fatal train accidents? It's an address. State Secretary Tamás Schanda will answer. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, we often find that Hungary is a leader in many statistics with negative ratings in the European Union. For example, the subject of corruption, but also the number of fatal railway accidents. We both have EU statistics, and we cannot be proud of that. In 2019 almost 9 people, with 1 million inhabitants, were killed in Hungary, and 8.9 were killed in a train accident. On the other hand, the EU average was 1.8 in the same year. So ours is five times the EU average. Thus, 8.9 people died in our country as a result of a train accident, 6.8 people in the EU in Latvia, 5.7 in Slovakia, 1.6 in Germany, 0.7 in France, 0.3 in Spain per million, and no fatal train accident in Luxembourg at all. While the number of fatal train accidents in the EU is constantly decreasing, it has decreased by one third in ten years, unfortunately this trend is not seen in Hungary. A slight wave of stagnation was observed during the same period. Almost 60 percent of fatal accidents occur when a person enters or stays unauthorized on the rails and a further third occurs at the intersection between the road and the railway level. This happened, for example, in our county, in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, two weeks ago, where a tractor drove on the tracks at New White Lake. Only 2 percent of fatal train accidents occur in the case of passengers on the train, and I must stress that these statistics do not contain the number of suicides. I therefore ask the honourable Secretary of State what they intend to do to reduce the number of fatal train accidents. Is there a government plan to prevent such accidents? I look forward to your meaningful reply. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-03-86	Thank you very much. Secretary Schanda, please.
u2021-05-03-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Before I say anything, allow the Honourable Parliament to express my condolences to the relatives of the New White House accident, and I wish the injured people a speedy recovery. Honourable Congressman, I also think that it would be worthwhile not to use tragic accidents for political purposes. I would ask you not to do this, even if it has a tradition on the left. Honourable Congressman, You are well aware that the government and the railway undertakings are doing their best to prevent traffic accidents in railway crossings. We support the implementation of improvements to road safety. Regular and extremely strict inspections are carried out by the authorities and we also draw the attention of road users to the importance of compliance with the rules by keeping joint actions. As a result of these developments, honourable Member, transport safety has improved in Hungary over the last few years, and, contrary to your speech, it is also clear that, thank God, the number of railway accidents has decreased. It is also a very important thing, honourable Member, that rail transport is still one of the safest modes of transport. The data clearly show that only a fraction of accidents, compared to road transport, end in injuries or even worse cases of death. Honourable Congressman, Of course, it must not be forgotten that rail is a dangerous plant and that individual responsibility is also important. We therefore ask all road users to comply with the rules of transport. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-03-88	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice a question with the title of the new hidden victims of the Government's failed crisis management. Mr Róbert Zsigó will answer your question. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-05-03-89	Thank you very much. Dear House, Unfortunately, the closeness caused by the epidemic has brought to light the existing problems that have resulted in a significant increase in the number of victims of domestic violence. At the end of last year, the president of the NANE Association said that the number of notifications to them had doubled. This phenomenon draws attention to the relationship between violence against women and housing problems. According to Habitat for Humanity, 2-3 million people are affected by the housing crisis in Hungary. In addition, the disadvantage for women is increased by the fact that they are already receiving lower salaries, and their chances of working are reduced by 37 percent by childbearing. There is a particularly high risk of poverty among women raising their children alone. The extra work within the household, the care of children, and the unsolved housing situation force women into a situation where even if they want to, they cannot leave the abusive relationship. Unfortunately, it is very common that not the rapist, but women and children, have to leave the common household, and the social system institutions only provide assistance to victims for a temporary or even less. To date, no long-term housing strategy has been developed within the supply system. The remedy for the situation would be precisely the municipal system that you have sabotaged. Ferencváros is a good example of solving problems at local level in the absence of a state organisational background. The crisis housing network makes it easier to restart and create housing for those fleeing from an abusive environment. In addition, these women need a specialist psychologist, an environment that helps to process trauma. In view of all this, I am asking what long-term housing strategy the government has for eliminating violence against women. How did the Hungarian government contribute to reducing domestic violence during the pandemic? I hope that I will get a concrete answer to my question from the Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-03-90	Thank you very much. Mr. Róbert Zsigó Secretary of State, here you go.
u2021-05-03-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'll try to comply with your request. The Hungarian government is committed to protecting families, children and women. Our goal is to make as few victims as possible, and where there is trouble, help will arrive as soon as possible. We've turned relationship violence into a criminal act of its own. I note that many left-wing Members did not support this at the vote in June 2013 here in Parliament. Since 2010, we have increased crisis centres from 12 to 20, from 1 to 8 secret shelters, from 4 to 21 halfway houses, we have created 7 crisis clinics, we have spent 3 billion forints of development resources for the expansion and training of the help network, and we have quadrupled the funding of the free help line throughout the day. The supply system has not occurred once since the expansion of 2018-19, even in the period of the epidemic, so that we can't place the victim in a shelter without a place to stay. The capacity of the supply system is not only adequate, but it can also bear additional burdens. During the epidemic, the supply system was continuously functioning, crisis centres and secret shelters received the victims in the same way while complying with the epidemiological rules, and the clinics provided all their assistance services in the online space. [[13.30]] The person who talks about the lack of space created tension where they shouldn't. Unfortunately, the victims are the victims because they believe that there is no help, and the danger of this can be measured primarily in human lives. The results listed above clearly show that we do not only in words but also in actions against violence in relations [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the opposition, on the other hand, did not even support the fact that I mentioned that more severe penalties should be imposed on the abuse of relatives. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-03-92	Dear Parliament, Member László Sebian-Petrovszki, representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question. It's an address. State Secretary Balázs Orbán will respond. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, the regulation on vaccination certificates has been adopted in Brussels, the main point of which is that each country must make the entry of vaccinees in its own country or in Europe mandatory, and in addition, each country can decide for itself how to further expand it. Although this is a fair regulation, opposition representatives in Brussels did not vote for this, despite their better conviction, because it would have caused millions of Hungarian citizens to be excluded from free movement within Europe because of your Chinese vaccine adventure, or at least the possibility, that would have happened. The Sinopharm vaccine is not authorised anywhere else in Europe but in ours. This would have led to, or will result, a number of countries likely to allow only those vaccinated with a vaccine authorised in the European Union or authorised in their own country and others not. In Hungary, the number of people affected by 5 million imported vaccines is 2.5 million, but as we are now moving towards a third vaccination of the Chinese vaccine, this means that it affects about 1.5-1.7 million people, so that as many people will not be able to visit their children or grandchildren in Europe. You have also concluded that the Hungarian vaccination certificate does not contain the vaccine that was given to the person, that is, even those who are not vaccinated with a Chinese vaccine will have to prove what they were vaccinated with in order to enter the country. I will then ask you, Mr Secretary of State, who was worth the Chinese vaccine and, in this way, who was responsible for issuing the vaccine card. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2021-05-03-94	Thank you very much. State Secretary Orbán, please.
u2021-05-03-95	Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Mr President, They really are like the Bourbons: they have learned nothing, they have forgotten nothing. I think that posture and tone are incredibly irresponsible, the way you keep talking about this issue. Aren't we in the middle of a coronal virus epidemic? Isn't the scientific consensus that the virus is the only effective weapon against the vaccine? It wouldn't be anyone sitting in this room, regardless of what we think of politics, it wouldn't be in our interest that as many Hungarians as possible decide. [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: We are talking about the vaccine ID!]] to register and to receive the vaccine as soon as possible [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: We are talking about the ID!]] and that as few people get sick as possible and that as few people die as possible in Hungary as a result of the epidemic? Compared to this, as a result of the European Union negotiations, the outcome of which will be and will be the outcome, you know perfectly well that every vaccine approved by the WHO and used in a widespread way in the world will be approved by each country, and we ourselves, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs has said about it, will ensure that Hungarians come abroad in bilateral agreements; you will stand up and create uncertainty. He says if people accept Eastern vaccines, they won't be able to travel abroad. Think about it, Congressman, because it's really about our voters, I'm telling you, they don't take you seriously, so it doesn't matter what you say from the point of view of right-wing voters. But the Democratic Coalition has a voting base who looks up to you, who consider you a credible politician. Now he stands up here in front of Parliament's public opinion and creates uncertainty that these people will not be able to travel abroad, which is obviously a lie, obviously it is not true. If this isn't anti-vaccination, then what is it? I'm sorry to use such strong words, unnecessary speech in this House, but I don't know what to say: shame on you. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-03-96	Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Minister without a wallet in charge of the families:, Will you help parents with extra leave in case of miscarriage? It's an address. State Secretary Tamás Schanda will answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-03-97	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, New Zealand has introduced this year a system of supplementary leave for families where there has been a miscarriage, at any moment of pregnancy, according to this regulation. On the other hand, the position of the EMMI is that the Hungarian system is correct, according to the current rules, there is only a supplementary leave for parents if pregnancy is advanced and they think that when it is not advanced, it is sufficient to provide only sick money and only the mother with such assistance. Clearly, if the government is serious about being family-friendly, then at such a tragic moment, families need to be helped. The fact that we set a date within a pregnancy, when this supplementary leave is due, in my opinion, is not an appropriate regulation. This means that there are people in their lives who are so tragic that they have to go to work the next day, because we know that this is up to employers, and employers do not always behave humanely. I think that there may be a national consensus that in the event of a miscarriage, there must be a longer extra leave for mothers and a shorter one for fathers. I don't really see what kind of argument they can make to bring this in. I think that this would not be a significant burden on the budget, and that would not mean that the structure of the Hungarian economy should be transformed. This would be a humane step for people who have had a terrible tragedy in their pregnancy. I hope that the Government will support the LMP legislative proposal on this. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-03-98	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, here you go.
u2021-05-03-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In recent years, I myself have been nervous about being pregnant, and unfortunately, I have seen the loss of a child that was expected at close range. I share the pain and grief of everyone who lost their child before or after childbirth. If a man loses his parents, he will be an orphan; if a man loses his wife or husband, he will be a widow. It is neither a coincidence nor a coincidence that our child's death has no words, no words, a tragedy that cannot be expressed in words. The processing of these personal dramas, believe me, honourable Member, does not depend on legislative amendments and not on two-minute oral questions. This is the most serious, cruel human drama, and believe me, whoever has been in this situation does not care about our debate, your bill or the exact amount of freedom. If the subject allows me at all, then allow me to stress what we agree on. You speak of life from conception, the loss of which is a tragedy. I agree with you: for the respect and protection of a conceived life, we must do everything we can. And we can also agree, honourable Member, that the Government of Hungary is a family-friendly government. Honourable Congressman, Since the entry into force of the Labour Code, the employer has made it possible to exempt the employee from the obligation to work for reasons of incapacity for work or due to a personal and family reason which is particularly appreciated. There can be no debate between us, there can be no debate anywhere, that such a tragedy is such a cause far away. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-03-100	Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister without a wallet in charge of managing the national assets:. Why has the military plant promised by Attila Móring József for 3 years with 200-220 employees not been completed in Marcali? It's an address. Secretary of State János Fónagy will answer. Here you go. [[13.40]]
u2021-05-03-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Marcali is a famous military city that we are proud of, as well as the former soldiers who settled and founded a family in the city. That is why it is painful and sad that the barracks of Sándor Petőfi, who had been home to 1,500 soldiers, has been allowed to die for 20 years now. The use of valuable state assets is necessary because where there is work, there will also be livelihoods and development. Three years ago, just before the elections, József Attila Móring said that the barracks should be converted into a military plant, which would give work to 200-220 people. He didn't say it for nothing because he wanted to win elections. And do you know what's happened since then? Nothing! Nothing, but if we were to convert the barracks, as I said, there would be work, there would be a livelihood, and the area hasn't been owned by the defense wallet since 2003, as it turns out. What will the congressman promise the voters next year? Anyway, they're not gonna believe him. However, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State: why has the military plant promised by Attila Móring József three years ago to employ 200-220 people in Marcali not been completed? Why doesn't the Fidesz government help make the Member's promises come true? And now that it turns out that they're going to be producing tanks not in Marcali, but in Kaposvár, I respectfully ask what concrete plans they have for the outside barracks. Let's wait for an honorary answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-03-102	Thank you very much. Secretary of State János Fónagy responds. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-103	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The owner of the property in question was correctly referred to by the National Industrial Park Operator and Developer Zrt. In December 2015, the company received about 38 hectares of real estate as a contribution. This NIPÜF group's primary objective is business efficiency, thus achieving its corporate objectives at market prices. The housing stock of the group is nearly a thousand hectares of development, the area of the halls rented to date is more than 188 thousand square meters, so there is plenty of work to be done. Several forms of real estate exploitation have been examined and investigated by NIPÜF, which has also been negotiated with market and public operators. I note here, too, that what Congressman Moring said three years ago, I believe, is also the aim of your questioning to win elections, and I find nothing wrong with that, so the property is brown-fielded due to its previous functions. It's a brownfield property, ergo it's a lot harder to find an investor, I'm guessing that's why the applicants from three years ago didn't choose this property. At the same time, as has been the case, the company is prepared to cooperate with all the actors, naturally with you, in order to achieve this goal. As far as investments in the military industry are concerned, we have indeed first laid the foundation stone for a unique artificial intelligence investment in Europe, and otherwise we are also negotiating with other companies. By the way, it will not be Kaposvár, which you mentioned, but Várpalota, where they will produce various war materials. By the way, for the personal address, Congressman Moring [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm authorized to encourage you to contact him personally. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-03-104	Dear Parliament, László Hajdu, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. What about the reduction of the loss suffered by the business tax with their promise to the municipalities? Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, will answer your question. Congressman, please.
u2021-05-03-105	Dear Secretary of State, The government withdrew 130 billion forints from the districts of Budapest and the capital under the pretext of protecting against the epidemic. I would like to ask you, because we are part of a series, it started with the withdrawal of personal income tax, in 2017, the introduction of a solidarity tax, the establishment of a utility tax, the creation of a kukaholding, and a number of other withdrawals, such as a car tax with a business tax. This is the most important edition, the trade tax, in which the promise was made that the lost income caused by withdrawal would be negotiated with the districts and the capital. Out of the 23 districts of Budapest, only one is not over 25,000 inhabitants, so I ask the Secretary of State how such negotiations have taken place, what is the outcome of the negotiations, and indeed some sort of compensation and compensation has been granted to the districts and the capital on the basis of lost income, as the operation of the city is at risk, which is why I consider it very important to have a professional response to this. Thank you.
u2021-05-03-106	Mr. Secretary.
u2021-05-03-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Member, I am trying to meet the increased expectations. There will be a certain debate between us on exactly how the situation of the municipalities stands. I would say that the situation of the municipalities is stable from a financing point of view, let us say, compared to 2010, when the current government started operating, although it can be considered particularly better. We all remember debt consolidation, we all remember the restructuring of tasks, and we all remember the numbers that were mentioned here several times before the National Assembly, the tax revenues, so the tax revenue increases without tax increases, which the municipalities, thank God, may have booked. We are in the middle of a coronal virus epidemic, which, of course, uses the ability of the authorities and the state to control the burden, and the funding of everyone has been reduced, but it can be said, however, that the funding of the municipalities remains stable. The central budget for 2021 has 17 percent more support, and it is true that the government has decided on tax reliefs worth HUF 400 billion, which are financed partly by the state circle and partly by the local government. The business tax relief mentioned by you, I would stress this, because here we should agree that this helps the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise sector, worth approximately 150 billion forints, here the government has decided to compensate the settlements below 25,000 people one at a time, and in terms of tax power in settlements above 25,000 people, they are the most likely to decide on compensation as a result of individual negotiations. These negotiations took place under the leadership of Minister György Balla and Balázs Fürjes, and the government will soon make a decision. We will support all basically development-type needs, but the day-to-day operation of municipalities is not at risk regardless of party affiliation. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Unless the city manager's abilities are the same, but that's another question. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-03-108	Thank you very much. Congressman Péter Ungár, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: Why do social workers not exist consistently in the head of the government? It's an address. Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I think it can be said, now that the homes are largely protected, the elderly homes because of vaccinations, the social workers in this third wave have performed excellently, and we thank them for their work, and I would especially like to thank those social workers who did not receive early vaccination, but had to sign up for registration, those who worked in home assistance, child protection and other basic services. However, the fact remains that it is still incomprehensible why they did not provide the one-off HUF 500,000 salary supplement for social workers, which was rightly received by healthcare workers. Almost a year ago, all Hungarian social workers have not understood why their work is estimated to be so much less than that of healthcare workers, with the wages of those working in the social sector constantly falling short of the average wage, they are the worst earning Hungarian workers. [[13.50]] Without the work of the social sector, the country would stop. We can see this when we think about the coronal virus epidemic, and we can see it anyway. According to one research that wasn't done by EMMI, it turned out that social workers felt the coronal virus epidemic was a very, very heavy strain, a lot of extra hours. If you think that there is a work-based society and that the work has to be paid, then you have to pay for the extra work done by those working in the social sector. So once again, I would like to ask the Secretary of State not to talk about the nominal increase in the wages of social workers compared to 2010 and not to talk about what the Gyurcsány government was like in 2009 when I graduated, but to talk about why you did not give these heroic Hungarian workers the one-off HUF 500,000.
u2021-05-03-110	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
u2021-05-03-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, At least we already agree that in recent years there has been a wage increase in the social sphere, and this is indeed an area where there has been a great demand for it, because whenever you graduate, for those who worked here, it was not possible to take a month's wages away from them. You are still surrounded by your allies, fellow politicians, who voted here in Parliament to reduce the wages of all social workers in Hungary. Honourable Congressman, We are here at a time when there is a very difficult economic situation in all countries of the world, and last year, despite the crisis of the Crown Virus, we have raised the wages of social workers by 14 percent. While it was the previous crisis, did they raise the wages of social workers? No. Did they at least keep the wages of social workers at a level? No. Have you reduced the wages of social workers? Yeah. Are you campaigning with those who have reduced the wages of social workers? Yeah. And now you're gonna come into Parliament and ask for a raise for social workers? Yeah. We're in the graduating area, so maybe this could be given up to a logical puzzle. There's no logical explanation for this shape. His desire for left-wing power is only to resolve that he is saying the opposite of what the people you speak with here in Parliament. Honourable Congressman, Talk to fellow Members who have reduced the wages of social workers, why they have done so and why they have not followed social workers since. On the other hand, as you pointed out, we tried to increase the wage as many times as possible, in 2014, with a social sector wage supplement, this increased the wages of 90,000 people, and in 2015 it increased the wages of 66 thousand people, and in 17 and 18 we spent an additional HUF 9 billion on a wage increase, on the one hand in the form of a nursery allowance, and on the other hand as a social sector supplement, which increased the wages of 14 thousand people... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] And I'm running out of time to name all the raises for you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-03-112	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The questions are over. We now turn to the item on the agenda for immediate questions. Dear Parliament, MEPs Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. I'll ask the person present. [[For signal:]] Yes, it is just difficult to see you in this situation, Mr Szilágyi, to accept the person of Mihály Varga, who has been put in this position because of Mr. Prime Minister's absence, and the Prime Minister's right to reply. [[Mihály Varga: Is this described in such a circumstantial way?]] In English, do you accept the person of Mr. Mihály Varga or not?
u2021-05-03-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We'll wait for Viktor Orbán. [[Mihály Varga: Best of...]]
u2021-05-03-114	Understood. I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. So I'm going to go to the next right-wing congressman. Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long will the government spend the taxpayers' money on their own cosmetics? I repeat what I just said: Mr Prime Minister, because of his absence, he gave the right to reply to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take it. [[For signal:]] There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-05-03-115	Mr President, Dear House, Good wine doesn't need the company, says the saying. Against this background, it is surprising that, in the middle of a pandemic, in an economic, socially tense crisis, the Government of Hungary signed a HUF 3.4 billion framework contract to advertise itself for some HUF 9.6 million per day that it is a family-friendly government. We believe that this amount should not be spent on self-advertising or propaganda, but on grabbing and putting it all into a trust for families in difficulty. We also see that out of this almost 10 million forints a day, the fate of a family that is about to be evicted could be settled permanently, or that new concepts could be invented that would allow these families to enter a sustainable course. However, we also see, Minister, that in 2018, when around half the money was spent on advertising the year of families, there were 3212 evictions in Hungary. In 2019, when the family-friendly Hungary campaign was painted on the billboards, and they spent a lot of tax-paying money on it, 3117 evictions took place in Hungary. In my view, and Jobbik, of course, feels the same way as a Christian, socially sensitive right-wing party [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Whoo!]] Family friendship shouldn't be advertised on billboards, it should be treated like one. And don't hoot, Mr. Secretary. Wake up! Notice where he is. We are talking about the fate of Hungarian families. Your condescending, flagma style has resulted in more than 18,000 evictions in Hungary since 2010. Shame and shame! There is no government certificate in Europe, so my question is clear, Minister: are you willing to give up your ad and help the Hungarian families, especially those in difficulty, with this amount? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-03-116	Mr Mihály Varga, Deputy Prime Minister, shall have the floor. Here you go. Please turn on the Vice Prime Minister's microphone. [[It's happening.]]
u2021-05-03-117	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, In his immediate question, there are two things that I do not know that are deliberately or beyond his intentions: support for families, their situation, and the question of eviction. Allow me to start with the support of the families. The advertisement you mentioned is not about the government wanting to polish itself, the advertisements are about how this government considers families as valuable, the organization within the family, the value of making it easier to start a family in Hungary, to have children and raise children. This is why, since 2010, support for families has been increased to two and a half times, and the support for families has increased significantly. Supporting families means not only narrowly taking care of babies, baby care fees, family tax incentives, but also programs such as home support, the possibility of renovating homes, which are also intended to help and aim to make it easier for families to thrive, making it easier for families to get to home. To this end, the government has taken decisions that restricted eviction several times in the last ten years, and almost every year. I would like to remind Mr President that you were here in Parliament at the time, and you may remember that the government started helping those affected by foreign exchange by making it impossible for the banks, or for the liquidators and executives, to use eviction in this regard, and by allowing families to be easier to deal with by amending banking systems and programmes. So the eviction moratorium has been used by this government, and it intends to continue to use it, but it also helps families who are in difficulty because of some kind of lending. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-03-118	I'll be back in a minute. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, He tells us all about the government's home-building programme, Minister, that with a ministerial salary you can receive a 10-million-dollar non-refundable grant for the Balaton construction, and in an average life-time situation, the preferential loan will remain for a Hungarian youth. All the families are affected by what has been said. The minimum wage has already been taxed, while it has not previously been taxed, 27 per cent world record VAT, Minister, is also included in child-rearing articles as a kind of penalty tax with the highest key in Europe, while the executioners have 33 per cent and 50 per cent bans on both minimum wage and minimum pensioners. [[14.00]] So what we're seeing is that the government that calls itself family-friendly lets the families sabotage. The question I asked was very simple: are you willing to take down the billboards and turn the price of the stencil into support for families? Mr. Secretary, speaking of eviction moratorium, it's up to five. You will give your name to a CDC. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In the middle of an emergency, for the mass eviction of families? Because if you don't do anything, in a few days, this process will be brutally restarted.
u2021-05-03-120	One minute rejoinder, Deputy Prime Minister. Here.
u2021-05-03-121	Thank you, Mr. President. I listened a little sadly to Congressman's comment. The party that once included support for families in his programs today seems to be against the support of families. It's attacking campaigns, programs that want to strengthen families. I find this odd, Your Honour. The smallest, smallest element of the nation is the family. Support for families is needed, and the government will not withdraw from this. He has again confused the issue of the tax system with the support of families in his second comment or question. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian constantly intervenes.]] Congressman, over a million families use the family tax incentives that we are giving for this purpose. Mixing this with the VAT through which we finance our community spending, health, education, defence, public security, I think it is not worthy, so I ask the Member to support the families and not attack them. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-03-122	Dear Parliament, Member Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister without a wallet in charge of national asset management an immediate question:, Another abuse of the extraordinary legal order? What will happen to the state's wealth? It's an address. The Minister authorised Secretary János Fónagy to reply. I'd like to ask the congressman if he'll take it.
u2021-05-03-123	Mr. Secretary of State, I'm very honored to hear your reply, but I don't accept it. I'll wait for Madam Secretary, thank you.
u2021-05-03-124	I understand, thank you very much. In that case, I would like to inform you that the Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Since the Member did not accept it, the next in line representative of the MSZP may ask questions. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "How long will the conversation take? It's an address. Due to his absence, Minister Balázs Orbán gave the right to reply. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll take it. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita nods.]] Yeah. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-05-03-125	Thank you very much. Dear House, K/15274. I submitted a written question to Minister Gergely Gulyás about why the town centre in Tata was not renovated on the basis of a common concept. Unfortunately, on behalf of Minister, my dear Secretary of State, he simply did not respond to what I asked, because I was not interested in the election of the mayor of the town of Tata or the modification of the local settlement arrangements. The people of Tata want to know why the Fidesz government says otherwise and why. What happened was that while the Deputy State Secretary for Architecture and Construction of the Prime Minister's Office spoke about the fact that according to the announced architectural tender, investments are not planned individually but in a unified way, the design contest focuses only on a small section of the historic city. Many buildings have been left out of the plan, without which we simply cannot speak of a unified mindset, although not only the municipality, but also the Hungarian state, has significant real estate in Tata. In addition, only six weeks have been left for the preparation and submission of the documentation of the Tata Szévere.The deadline is 10 May. This calls into question the professionalism and seriousness of the label. Please respond to what I'm asking and what the people of Tata are interested in. If the Deputy Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office believes that the city centre cannot be dismembered during the renovation, then why are important buildings excluded from the design contest? Why is the Tata Heart so truncated that it makes it impossible to develop the area in a sustainable and economical way? Mr. Secretary, I am confident that you will actually answer my question now, and you are not fooling me.
u2021-05-03-126	Thank you very much. Have faith, Congresswoman, because it is now time for Secretary of State Balázs Orbán. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-127	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The values of Tata's city and region have been seriously damaged in the four decades of socialism, thanks also to the forced modernisation efforts of the era. It is in our interest to preserve and develop the city's architectural values. The city and the citizens of Tata can count on the government or their mayor, who has been re-elected for a reason, for the third time. Since 2008, the city has had a comprehensive urban development strategy, called the Magyary Plan, which has already been revised once in 2015, and if we are aware, the next update is also being made. So the review of Tata's urban development concept and settlement planning is ongoing. This includes a single concept that harmonises the individual development ideas that the Member has asked about. All Magyary plans were born through social debate and consultation, with corporate approval. The materials are now public. In the case of the design contest referred to by you, it is not intended to trigger a single renovation, but it is the first step of a single whole reconstruction development. It's not isolated, it's just the two public buildings, it's a project that's drawn out of context. Candidates are also expected to look at wider urban fabric contexts and propose proposals. In the case of the design contest, the deadline laid down by law appears to have been announced by the city on 10 March; the upload deadline is 10 May and the result will be announced on 17 June. Professional interest surrounds the application, already more than 70 official registrants [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] has replaced the tender materials. So confidence is greater than what the Member's speech suggested. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-03-128	Rejoice, Congresswoman Gurmai, please, one moment.
u2021-05-03-129	Thank you very much. I'm glad you got some answers after all. I did not succeed in this written question, because this time would not have taken place. However, in any case, I would like to be assured in the immediate response that when buildings that are an integral part of the Tata city centre will be implemented. For example, the Cifra mill was left out of the renovation of the state-owned Esterházy castle, but I could mention the municipal-owned piarist house or the synagogue building. So I think, in any case, that, for the whole historical city core, the individual properties will then remain unfunctional, while maintaining them will continue to be borne by the community. So I'd like an answer to that, too. So I would like to know exactly when there really is going to be a change in this, so if you were to make a schedule, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to say that this is a way for the citizens of Tata to really calm down. Thank you.
u2021-05-03-130	Schedule in a minute, rejoinder, Secretary of State.
u2021-05-03-131	Thank you very much for the opportunity, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and What I can tell you, if I may, is that this is a moment, only in general, that the improvements you have mentioned are in progress. I am always very pleased if there is a Member of Parliament interested in the region, especially if he does so from the left, and with such parliamentary speeches he supports the work and the ability of the municipalities to assert their interests. The problem is that in their governance before 2010, when they were in government positions, they were not so enthusiastic, or perhaps the enthusiasm was there, but their part of the support was missing, because the work started from the point where, as in all settlements, we had to carry out debt consolidation first, then we had to raise the support of the settlements in question, and this was the case with Tata. We are constantly supporting individual development needs, and at the moment the city's budget is stable. And we are talking here in Parliament about the developments that have been made over a period of 5-10-15 years. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We can make it happen. I wish that had been the case before. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-03-132	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anett Bősz, representative of the Democratic Coalition, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. The construction of autocracy is successful, isn't saving lives? It's an address. Because of his absence, the Minister authorised the State Secretary, Pál Völner, to reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept... [[Affirmative Anett: Yes.]] You have the floor, please.
u2021-05-03-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The Deputy Prime Minister justified the extension of the scope of the Coronary Virus Control Act by ensuring that the exceptional and temporary legal framework previously adopted served well the fight against the health and economic effects of the epidemic. That is a shocking argument, because while most of the people in our country died in proportion to our population for six weeks until last week, we have seen that you are contradicting yourself. [[14.10]] The Prime Minister said on September 4th that he measured the effectiveness of defence in human lives. Nevertheless, we have seen that even the 300 dead people who died a day did not wake up and say that this epidemiological defense did not succeed. Two weeks ago, we got to the point that since the outbreak, there hasn't been as much population-related casualties in the world as we have. On the other hand, to further argue against this proposal, there is no need for a special legal order or authorisation to organise vaccination. So why does the government need this when we see that grafting is going well, otherwise they argue that we can open soon? Dear Secretary of State, I think it's either a special mandate because we're still in danger or opening up because we've been so good at dealing with the epidemic. I can't do both. So why do we need this law? Perhaps I should ask you to continue to maintain the assembly ban or the procrastination of interim elections? I ask the Secretary of State that the new virus variants may be infected only in protests or rallyings, and not in full-time soccer matches. I don't think you want us to remember these years by building autocracy. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the disease management is not. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2021-05-03-134	Thank you. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-05-03-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House of Representatives, Dear fellow Member, If we look through the emergency periods that have been accompanying us since last spring, we can also see that they were absolutely justified, because the epidemic has not ceased in Hungary or in the world. It can also be seen that the government has used this type of entitlement in terms of health protection, health protection and economic protection in a useful way: it has been able to provide funds for health protection, protection of elderly homes, whether if we think about using the military or how many jobs we have been able to save with job protection and investment promotion, how much effort we have made to get life back on track, and how the economy can start again. It can also be seen that the kind of rating that the government needs to be able to obtain flexibly breathing appliances, masks, other protective equipment, medicines, or, as in the last period, vaccines. It is a very hypocritical position when you refer to the fact that, first of all, you said that Parliament does not meet. We all knew it was a lie, and it was proven abroad. Then they want to discuss operational matters in front of Parliament that, for example, we do not get enough vaccines from the West, because the joint procurement in the EU has not been sufficiently successful if I want to put it mildly. The government was in a position to decide on the purchase of Eastern vaccines. And what we could have expected of you is confirmed by the draft resolution in Parliament, which clearly states in its explanatory statement that it was signed on the left with Jobbik, and it is in their view that vaccines not authorised by the European Agency cannot be vaccinated in Hungary. That is why we need a mandate for an emergency. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-03-136	Rejoice, Congresswoman, please.
u2021-05-03-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Secretary, thank you for trying to give me a meaningful answer to my question. There is a strong difference of opinion between us, however, that we still need a special legal order for what you have listed. I'm saying no, and I've brought a few things here to this House that you've used the special legal order for the last year. Friends and business partners continued to invest in which they could otherwise build fabulous wealth instead of helping small businesses. They brought together a deficit of $5,500 billion last year. Churches were given breathtaking amounts of money, violence organizations, cross-border, relatives and friends travelling in tourism, but people hardly experienced a substantial economic rescue package, especially among small businesses and workers. So once again, I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether, on the basis of the economic rescue package and the mortality data that I have listed, disease management has been successful. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-05-03-138	Thank you. Secretary of State's rejoinder?
u2021-05-03-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I mean, on an almost normative basis, for example, each owner could obtain a million HUF per room to provide support in order to be able to renovate the accommodations during the period when he could not receive guests, and then receive the guests; that those who met the criteria received the job-saving subsidies. Let us consider that, even in May, when these subsidies may be limited, they may still be available, then I think the kind of accusations you raised here appear to have been made entirely out of the air. It also seems that in investments, for example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is my constituency, and I am also an individual representative of the EUR 800 thousand support has had an incredibly good impact, helping precisely the medium-sized enterprises that need it. As far as mortality data are concerned, I would suggest that you also look at Eurostat data, which includes additional mortality and is also seen in the EU context, which is also a major tragedy, but also in the middle field. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We're in the show. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-03-140	Dear Parliament, Mr Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Minister Mihály Varga, Deputy Prime Minister, was entitled to respond. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take it.
u2021-05-03-141	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2021-05-03-142	Understood. In this case, Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What is the government planning?" It's an address. The situation is similar to that of 43 seconds ago, because, due to the absence of Prime Minister, Minister Mihály Varga, Deputy Prime Minister, was entitled to respond. Will the congressman accept it?
u2021-05-03-143	I'd be happy to accept it.
u2021-05-03-144	We're so glad you're happy. [[Defiance.]] Here you go.
u2021-05-03-145	Thank you for the floor. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Parliament, On the day after the municipal elections, several government leaders said that they would cooperate with all local government leaders regardless of their party political colour. It is very important to support the municipalities during the coronal virus epidemic, as the municipalities were given to the municipalities in Austria, which Viktor Orbán considered to be a laboratory, and everyone living in Szombathely County City knows precisely that the municipal leadership could have been expected during the coronal virus epidemic. Unlike Austria, this withdrawal was withdrawn from the municipalities in Hungary and, surprisingly, this withdrawal was criticized not only by opponents, but also by Győr's pro-government mayor. At the same time, before you will tell us that half of the business tax has remained with entrepreneurs, I would like to point out that if they really wanted to help entrepreneurs, they would not have allocated HUF 68 billion of wage support according to their own data, which is exactly one billion forints more than they spent on the hunting exhibition, but would have given us real wage support, in which we are currently the rush drivers in the European Union. However, this withdrawal was compensated last December. But who made it up to you last December? In the Fidesz cities, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Zalaegerszeg received HUF 1.38 billion for free use last December. My question will be infinitely simple: will Szombathely receive this 1.38 billion for free use, not labeled, transferred as Zalaegerszeg, or can it be said that Fidesz is more important to the people of Zalaegerszeg than the ones of Saturday? I want your answer to that.
u2021-05-03-146	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister, please.
u2021-05-03-147	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for asking. First of all, let me remind you that there are no two kinds of citizens in Hungary. So every person who lives in a settlement can count on the Hungarian government, and obviously citizens, no matter what kind of settlement they live in, should also count on the local government. What Mr President has raised is the question of how the crisis can be dealt with well and effectively. It should be recalled that the Hungarian Government has taken a number of measures over the past one and a half years, slowly two years, and we have tried to prepare those opportunities, and I say that in almost two years, because the budget for the 19th is good, that we have calculated a larger reserve and that we have increased the amount of reserves significantly. So from these, it was possible and successful to launch grants that supported businesses, people, families, regardless of the settlement they live in. Interest-free fast loan to entrepreneurs, wage subsidies are just now extended to the month of May, honourable Member, and this obviously also concerns the operator of the cafe, restaurant, tourist unit or pension in Szombathely, he can also make use of these grants. [[14.20]] What obviously hurts the municipalities is that we suggested leaving part of the business tax to businesses, and I think it's also good for businesses in Saturday, and now we've suspended the terrace charge. I have also heard from the Mayor that he has also planned this measure, so this seems to coincide with the intention of the municipalities. That is why I can say, Mr President, that Szombathely did not suffer ill, because it is also about keeping jobs and protecting families that is the most important. Please note here that the program of modern cities is continued by the government; we have an agreement with Saturday and this [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We want to keep every single point of it. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-03-148	Good-bye, Congressman, in a minute.
u2021-05-03-149	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. I didn't get an answer to my question. So last December, in the Gazette, Zalaegerszeg received 1,38 billion for free use, to compensate for the take-off of the business tax. Will Szombathely get the same money? That's the question. If the answer is lorem ipsum or blablabla or Ferenc Gyurcsány, then we know that you will not receive it [[Defiance.]] ; if the answer is to get it, then we know that they did not lie when they said that there are no two kinds of citizens. And I would like to say that you will respond in vain to working groups, working committees, and other things like that. This is an extremely simple question: will this 1.38 billion be transferred or not? It is not inspiring that Commissioner Balla said that there is no need to compensate for this budget reduction. So my question is that you will receive the same money from Szombathely that Zalaegerszeg received. Yeah? No?
u2021-05-03-150	Thank you very much. Deputy Prime Minister's reply will follow in a minute.
u2021-05-03-151	Honourable Congressman, Life isn't just black and white. So I know that you really like to put things out there. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] But the situation is a little more complex than that. On the one hand, as I said to you, we are continuing the program of modern cities, and Szombathely plays a prominent role in this. By the way, I am very much in favour of the development in Szombathely myself. I spent a year there as a soldier, and I have very good memories of the city, so I'm in favour of Szombathely getting all the support he can get. But he's comparing apples to pears. There are two settlements between which I am sure there is a kind of rivalry in this part of Transdanubia, but when I look at the power of tax, Zalaegerszeg is in a different position, and Szombathely is in another position. Szombathely's opportunities are favourable in this respect. And I would like to assure the Member that, if not in such a direct, direct form, but either in the form of domestic or EU support, Szombathely will also have support opportunities from which the city and the wider region can be developed. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-03-152	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Members of Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is going on? It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, he has given the Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga the right to reply. I ask Congressman Tordai to accept the response.
u2021-05-03-153	Listening to your previous response, I do not accept the identity of the selected responder. [[Rumble in the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]]
u2021-05-03-154	Understood. I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Thus, Honourable Parliament, Member Tamás Mellár, representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is going on here? It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2021-05-03-155	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2021-05-03-156	Yes, the floor is yours. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, A few days ago, his name appeared in the central newspaper of the governing party, and I do not wish to pronounce it, but I am sure you know which article was written by the Deputy President of the Central Statistical Office and in which he attacked the opposition. This has not been the case in the last 50 years. Even during the socialist period, the heads of the Statistical Office did not strive to publicly attack the opposition. With this step, the KSH violated the principle of impartiality to the official statistical service set out in the statistical law. You know, this is the statistical law that you adopted in 2016, so you can't claim to be the product of the cursed Gyurcsány era. But if someone takes the trouble to read this article carefully, they can also find that it is full of errors and slips, i.e. KSH has repeatedly broken the statistical law: the principle of reliability enshrined in the law has also been violated in this regard. I have three questions about this. How will the Ministry of Control of the KSH punish the violation of the Statistical Office? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It's the '50s!]] The other is what measures the government is planning to take to prevent such unfortunate cases from occurring in the future. Third, what does the government intend to do to stop the rapid loss of authority and mistrust of the Central Statistical Office's data? Thank you very much.
u2021-05-03-158	Thank you very much. Deputy Prime Minister, please.
u2021-05-03-159	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It was interesting to hear your suggestion, as well as that of the former President of the Statistical Office. Perhaps the question is that the government is handling the epidemic well, the economy is getting back on its feet, we are saving jobs, and as it hurts somewhere, in the heart of the congressman. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] Look, the fact that someone is writing an opinion article and it's coming out, I don't think it's a criminal act in Hungary. There are already countries where there is an abuse or a loss of job, see Germany, a certain football coach's discharge, Hungary is fortunately not such a place. And certainly not a place where, after opposition accusations, an opposition demand is immediately made by the government and someone will be punished. I don't understand your question, Congressman. I think that there have been very important points in this opinion, and that the first word here was not for KSH either. Let's remember, what are you guys gonna do for weeks? For months now, they've been attacking the Statistical Office for how, let's say, the average wage data is being manipulated by KSH. So I can tell the honourable Member that the grapes are a bit sour. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] I don't think it's right for you, as former President of the HCSO, to condemn and accuse the colleagues you worked with at the time. I ask you to respect the independence of the HCSO, respect the sovereignty of this institution. It is this institution who can also warn us if, where appropriate, the macroeconomic path differs from the draft. I think that it is an important institution of the Hungarian public administration, therefore, to respect the operational autonomy of this institution. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-03-160	Thank you very much. The congressman's rejoinder will follow in a minute.
u2021-05-03-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, You misunderstood me, I did not come to you for a job interview in the case of the HCSO, but as a Member of Parliament I asked you three very well-structured questions; so I would like you to try to answer these three questions. Obviously, his response showed that the government is unaware that statistical data is worth what they believe and trust. And if that trust is lost, it will take a very long time to restore that trust. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.]] And if you look around the country for a little while, you can see that today there is very little trust in the data of the HCSO, and that fewer and fewer people will accept it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Here we have Eurostat data.]] , whether inflation or real earnings, because it is already a category of joke that HUF 449 thousand is the average monthly gross earnings in Hungary. Let's go to the market sometime. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and ask people: is that really it? Thank you very much.
u2021-05-03-162	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President's reply will be returned. Here.
u2021-05-03-163	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, That's what KSH employees do on a regular basis. I think you are aware of this system, because as President, you have supervised, led this institution, and you know very well that the thousands of employees who work in the KSH are not only doing their job according to Hungarian legislation, but also to the expectations of Eurostat and the European Union. So I'm gonna have to decline the accusations you've made here in Parliament. The Hungarian Central Statistical Office is very good at its work, it does this work on the basis of Eurostat guidelines, so it provides reliable data. [[14.30]] The fact that you have a problem with the staff of the Statistical Office, with some of your colleagues or managers, I'm sorry, but behind this I'm sensing that you're no longer the head of the Statistical Office; as I said, the grapes are a bit sour. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-03-164	Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs an immediate question. It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Tamás Vargha granted the State Secretary the right to reply. I ask the congressman: do you accept... [[For signal:]] You have the floor, please.
u2021-05-03-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We can say that there is a very effective week behind us for the control of the coronal virus epidemic. Vaccines kept coming in, the number of vaccinees increased by more than half a million, we reached four million on Friday, even 4 million 73 thousand. In Hungary, the rate of vaccination remains approximately double the EU average. Since more and more people are gaining immunity, it is possible, step by step, to return to our old, normal lives. This also confirms that it was the right decision to provide for other effective and safe vaccines after Brussels failed central procurement. If we hadn't bought vaccines ourselves, we could still be waiting for EU bureaucrats. On the other hand, we told you from the very beginning that human life is the most important thing for us, which is the only important criterion in the purchase of vaccines. It doesn't matter if it's east or west, all that matters is that it's effective to protect people. The situation is that Western Europe is now waiting for Eastern vaccines, but almost six months have passed. The reason we're good with vaccinations is because we didn't listen to those who wanted to talk us out of acting on our own, we didn't let them tell us what to do. All this time, we had only one aspect in mind, the interests of the Hungarian people. Dear Secretary of State, As we've heard, there's no stopping this week, the transporters are still going to turn around a few times in the near future. How will the vaccination programme continue in the next weeks, how many more doses of vaccine are coming to Hungary? Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-03-166	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary Tamás Vargha, here you go.
u2021-05-03-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian government realized very early last year that a safe and effective vaccine is needed to protect the lives of Hungarian people; no matter where it comes from, if it is safe and effective, it saves life and means life. The Brussels procurement project, which you mentioned, was basically a good initiative, and we are also involved in it, but today the President of the European Commission has acknowledged that this procurement has been ruined, so we had to act immediately. Through our consistent and mutual respect-based foreign policy, we came among the world's first Russian-made Sputnik and Chinese-made Sinopharm vaccines, which, after the responsible decision of the Hungarian authorities, came to the Hungarian people and saved lives in the form of vaccination. On the other hand, the anti-vaccination left is constantly attacking and attacking these vaccine purchases. The mayor of DK accused the government of human trials, and risking the lives of Hungarian people, he simply sent the vaccines back. Thanks to the Hungarian acquisition, we will be able to inoculate 3.5 million more people by the end of May than those countries that have not chosen Eastern vaccines. According to the contract, there is still another 200 000 Russian shipments to be delivered in the coming weeks; 2.1 million doses of Sinopharm have been delivered so far and 2.9 million more will be expected in May. It is crucial that the vaccine is available to everyone, as it is the only way to restore our former lives. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-03-168	Thank you very much. Congressman, rejoinder in a minute.
u2021-05-03-169	Thank you very much for the reassuring information, Mr. Secretary of State. At the same time, we have heard in Parliament today that the opposition is now trying to find a catch on the Hungarian, very successful defence in relation to the protection certificate. Germany is now getting 30 million doses of Russian vaccine. I am sure that, regardless of any political pressure, the European authorities will acknowledge in a matter of seconds that the Russian vaccine is excellent and suitable. WHO's looking into Chinese vaccines right now. I would like to ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the apparatus, to do everything possible to allow Hungarians to travel with this immunity certificate, because it is quite obvious that there is only one thing important to the world, whether it is effective or not. Let us not follow the European practice of error in this regard. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-03-170	Secretary of State, return your answer, please.
u2021-05-03-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, That's what we're gonna do. This is what we will do, because I believe that it proves the success of the Hungarian road, as you have mentioned, that the leading countries of the European Union have already seen that they should have carried out a vaccine purchase similar to that of us, since they are also negotiating the purchase of the Russian vaccine. It is the anti-vaccination left that, in the hope of political gain, makes people insecure. It proves this, I think, also last Friday, because so many people thought that the Pfizer vaccine was the only effective one, because the left constantly believed it to people. This is not the case: each vaccine is effective and all people vaccinated with vaccine will be protected against the virus. I think that, as in the procurement case, the Hungarian people will be able to travel with the vaccine passport after the responsible decision has been taken. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-03-172	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. After all, for which framework of the EU's recovery fund does the Government submit Hungary's plan? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán granted the right to reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take it. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, please.
u2021-05-03-173	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Hungary receives HUF 5800 billion from the European Union's loan-backed recovery fund of EUR 750 billion. Of which 2,500 billion are aid and 3,300 billion are loans. That's a huge amount. It is an exceptional opportunity for the country to use it. When government members have spoken about this recently, they have spoken about the total amount. To use this amount, Member States should submit a so-called recovery and adaptation plan, in principle by 30 April. This plan is complete. 426 pages with a financial coverage of 5800 thousand billion HUF. In view of all this, we have not understood the announcement by Viktor Orbán in Brussels that Hungary only needs the support part. Gergely Gulyás said that Hungary is among the first to present its plan, which covers HUF 2500 billion in funding. Here you can see the plan and the table that was supposedly discussed with 500 organisations, as well as online and personal conferences. It contains nine components, 5797 thousand billion the amount. What's going to happen now: you're going to start this big negotiation again for the $2,500 billion amount? It has been said that the government does not use the loan because it does not want to increase the public debt even further. This would be understandable, since under the governance of Fidesz, the increase in government debt, corrected by inflation, is also 46 percent. However, the decisions of the past six months do not prove that you have considered this important aspect to be fundamental. After all, Mr Secretary, what plan did you send or send to Brussels for what amount? Thank you very much.
u2021-05-03-174	Secretary Balázs Orbán, please. [[14.40]]
u2021-05-03-175	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, If you'll allow me, I'd take the situation from somewhere else, approach from the RFF's point of view. What is the EU's aim of this recovery and adaptability fund? It is to increase the restoration of the coronal virus epidemic and, by the way, the resilience or adaptability of European states. It's a financial opportunity. We had an argument, but it's quite clear that this whole construction is a loan. The fact that it is now paid directly by the Member States or paid only through the EU is a semantic issue, in our view. It makes sense to use this credit facility if we can create more favourable conditions than if we can finance these investments from domestic budgetary sources, otherwise from sources available on the market or from other EU sources, such as the MFF Fund. What is now apparent is that the support part of this RFF framework, as you said, is a little over EUR 7 billion, HUF 2500 billion, the use of which is reasonable. By the way, the vast majority of EU countries, typically those in a better market and financing position, have likewise decided to use this part of the fund. Moreover, until 31 December 2023, it is possible to decide on the use of the other part of the Fund, the part of the aid to be recovered. Here, too, we will consider, if the construction is positive, that we will finance these developments individually on a project basis. But what is important is that these improvements are in Hungary's interest, these improvements are in the economic fight against the Crown Virus, and they will therefore be implemented. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-03-176	Thank you very much. Congressman's rejoinder in a minute.
u2021-05-03-177	Thank you for the floor. I didn't get an answer to why this plan was made for EUR 5800 billion, if that's what you think. Secondly, in November you took out a loan, to be more precise: a government bond issue of EUR 2.5 billion, and for this purpose. Then what is the difference between the two options, the positive joint recording and the output behind this? There is a very big difference, that one of them will be checked by the European Union, not based on ideological criteria. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Yes, you can.]] It's based on the fact that it's properly spent. And you are free to spend the other one, so that you can continue to fatten your own oligarch, because in the case of the other, you only knew it by using the unconventional use of EU money. Besides, this could be very useful for the future generation if they have such an economic policy, which György Matolcsy said Hungary does not have a unified and clear vision today. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-03-178	Thank you. Secretary of State's rejoinder.
u2021-05-03-179	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, This isn't the way you said it would be. So the problem is that the use of this EU resource system is tied, and indeed there are expenditures that we wanted to support from this EU use fund. I'll give you a specific example: medical raises. And the European Union will not contribute to this. So I think that there can be no debate in Members sitting between the two sides of Parliament's horseshoe that increases in medical wages during a pandemic are important things. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] The European Union, Brussels, has decided not to support it. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] I will say to Mr Arató, which is why we have decided to finance it from the Hungarian budget, and we will not take the details of this. So, contrary to the pre-2010 situation, I assure you, there will be a funding platform for the expenditure that is important for the national strategy, either from a Hungarian budget or from an EU source, or from the markets that are the most favourable for the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-03-180	Member László Szászfalvi, representative of the KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question, who is in favour of vaccination and who is against it? In response to Mr. Minister's absence, he appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Will the congressman accept it? [[On the signal of László Szászfalvi:]] You have the floor. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-181	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Last week we reached another milestone in the fight against the corona virus, reaching the first four million inoculated people, which is a truly unique performance not only in Europe but also worldwide. As a result, by Saturday we arrived at another stage of the gradual opening. The hotels, leisure facilities, zoos, museums, cinemas, theatres, gyms and sports events have been opened to the guests, and these can be accompanied by minors. It is important to stress that this is possible because more than 40 percent of Hungary's population received the first vaccination. Dear Secretary of State, As early as the second wave, it became clear that the virus cannot be overcome only by means of restrictive measures, the only effective solution is the vaccine. Recognizing this, the Fidesz-KDNP government sought alternative solutions as quickly as possible in order to achieve as much grafting as possible. Compared to this, the Left will focus on its own party policy goals rather than on joint cooperation and overcoming the epidemic as soon as possible. While left-wing politicians campaign against vaccination, they give you the vaccine. Even at the beginning of the epidemic, they tried to call for dictatorship and did not want to give the government the necessary emergency authority, and then they started spreading false news, producing chamomuvides, and constantly campaigning against vaccination. Dear Secretary of State, So, based on the above, I'm asking you how you see who's in favour of and who's against the vaccine. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you.
u2021-05-03-182	Thank you very much. Secretary of State of Rétvár, please.
u2021-05-03-183	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In recent months, we have witnessed an unprecedented left-wing behaviour here in Parliament, and since November, the left has said that he will do nothing in Brussels but try to prevent Hungarians from being vaccinated with either Chinese or Russian vaccines. In fact, here in the Hungarian Parliament, they still have two unretrieved decisions, which would also make it impossible to say that millions of people can now be said to be millions, because at least one and a half million people are protected from any consequences of coronal virus infection by receiving Chinese or Russian vaccines. Fortunately, many people do not listen to the left in Hungary, only in April 800,000 registered on the coronal virus site. We encourage everyone to register again, as in the next few weeks there will be enough vaccinations for everyone to be vaccinated immediately after registration. And you can see that there are no side effects like what the left was trying to scare me with, on the one hand, not to protect the Chinese or Russian vaccine, or to have side effects that are dangerous. None of this has happened, even though tens of millions have already been vaccinated with these vaccines worldwide. If we look at the proportion of infected and vaccinated in April, we can see that with 126 thousand new infected, 15 times as many people were vaccinated, 1.9 million people. So Hungary is making good progress in this area. This has been acknowledged by WHO, and I quote literally Hans Kluge, the WHO regional leader:. They are conducting an exemplary vaccination campaign in Hungary [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] the vaccine is considered to be a life-saving tool, the question of which goes beyond geopolitics. On the other hand, the Hungarian left sometimes challenges registration, sometimes questions the effectiveness of vaccination. And since Congressman Arató has yelled here, let me quote Gergely Arató Gergely Arató:. We do not ask for vaccines that have not been tested by European experts because according to Gergely Arató, the Hungarian professional is not a European specialist, and according to the news, their effectiveness is less than 50 percent. Well, you've been openly caught lying about that, too. [[Mihály Varga: Shame!]] Congressman, twice. [[Mihály Varga: Shame! Gergely Arató: The Chinese, too... a round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-03-184	Congressman! I'm glad more of you took it personally. [[Defiance.]] It was addressed to Mr Szászfalvi, who could speak legally on the one hand.
u2021-05-03-185	I'm honored, Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, It is a pleasure to announce to the former Prime Minister on Friday that, after graduation, vaccination will be launched for those aged 16 to 18. In the meantime, thanks to the government's supply of vaccine, there are enough vaccines in Hungary for everyone who wants to inoculate themselves. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, In our view, vaccination is a national matter, not an instrument of party politics. The left should not doubt its own voters, but rather help the mass vaccination so that we can live our lives within normal limits as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your reply. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-03-186	Thank you. Mr. Secretary's rejoinder. [[14.50]]
u2021-05-03-187	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Is it possible for some parties to tell people not to give their children a few days' worth of vaccination? Is it possible that when children are in line at school to be vaccinated against various former diseases, left-wing parties will stand there and say that because one or another child may be vaccinated from Russia, or may come from China, they should not be given, while more than 70 medicines from China are still licensed in Hungary, which are still on the market? Is it possible for someone to cheer on these past, many hundreds of thousands of deaths and try to dissuade people? Because that's what happened now, just not in connection with the vaccination of children, newborns, and schoolchildren, but in connection with the vaccination of adults, even chronic patients, or elderly people, in many cases. The left was trying to persuade them not to hire you, not to give you the Chinese or Russian coronal virus vaccine. This is unprecedented and incredibly irresponsible! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-03-188	Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question: "Where has the HUF 1338 billion due to Hungarian universities been added? The Minister granted Mr. Tamás Schanda State Secretary the right to reply because of his absence. I'm asking you to accept the congressman.
u2021-05-03-189	[[While he's standing up:]] That's what I got.
u2021-05-03-190	You have the floor, please.
u2021-05-03-191	Thank you very much. Dear House, I was impressed to hear this previous dramatized Hungarian National Leader article, but I would like to continue to state that you are lying like a river on this issue. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I quote you literally!]] The opposition is not against vaccination! The quote you're talking about is very accurate. [[Mihály Varga: Shame!]] that vaccine has been approved by you on the basis of the Secretary of State's opinion, based on non-existent Chinese investigations. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Aren't there any Chinese tests behind it?]] However, there is a very important lesson: the opposition has always been pro-vaccination, but it has demanded that people have a choice. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's not what you said!]] And what did he show you on Friday? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Embarrassing explanation!]] That when you guys got Pfizer out of the warehouse and allowed people to take a vaccine approved by the European Union [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He wasn't in the warehouse, that's the problem.]] Then they stood in line. Well, I don't want to ask you about that lie, I want to ask you about another one. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Embarrassing explanation!]] It was the same facial toaster lie when they told universities to undertake restructuring, a privatisation called a change of model [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You had the tuition!]] The fact that Fidesz foundations hand over their universities in exchange for this will give them EU development resources. After that, just as the law was announced, Gergely Gulyás admitted last week without any interruption that they had no intention of taking this money from the European Union, and had no intention of giving it to the universities. They pushed the restructuring and the privatization in Hungarian through universities by knowingly lying to them the whole time: they were promised development aid that they had no intention of giving. The justified question in this situation would be that you are not ashamed, but I will not ask that, because I know you are not ashamed. I would like to ask what was more important to you than the fate of Hungarian higher education, our children and the country.
u2021-05-03-192	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Tamás Schanda, please.
u2021-05-03-193	Thank you very much for your attention. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is always an honor for me to answer you, so allow me to try to do so now, even if you have only accepted me as an answer in an emergency. So, Your Honour, the thing is that whatever you say is anti-vaccination. The text you have just pushed down here in Parliament, in front of the Hungarian public, was an anti-vaccination text, honourable Member. To this day, you and your fellow party are working to dissuade people and dissuade them from giving themselves life and health vaccine. Honourable Congressman, It's quite shameful what you're doing on this subject. You're against vaccination on the entire left, and you're dissuading people from injecting the vaccine. That's what you did now, and that's what your party partner did last week on ATV, and that's what they do in every single one of their speeches. Quite amazing, Your Honour. And it is also amazing that you stand up and want to talk about higher education issues here in Parliament, so, honourable Member, that during the period when you were in government, and when you were in a position to be responsible, you have introduced a tuition fee, you have owed the institutions PPP schemes and, moreover, you have also lost the wages of instructors, honourable Member. On the other hand, the civil-national government provides wealth to the institutions, provides opportunities to the institutions, and continues to provide free higher education to young Hungarians. I can't believe he's coming here after all this. We have said that several times today, he was here in the Chamber, but he did not pay attention to the fact that we were going to implement the improvements. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-03-194	Thank you very much. Congressman, we have a rejoinder.
u2021-05-03-195	Thank you very much. I must say that, although I am always happy to hear from the Secretary of State, the Minister has a duty to speak to Parliament sometimes and to reply to Members, this is part of his very little salary. As far as the specific issues are concerned, first of all, I can definitely say that you continue to lie about anti-vaccination, and you were so taken by the government propaganda that you barely had time to answer the question. He is not telling the truth, of course, about the government before 2010: today there are much higher tuition fees, but it is called otherwise, but the fact that it has been re-labeled makes it pay ten times as much as it used to be. By the way, you seem to have forgotten to answer the question of what is more important than higher education. I would at least achieve the level that we have spent on higher education from EU funds before 2010, but you are currently [[As he shakes his raised fist:]] That's what higher education is meant for, exactly zero. I don't know if this is a forbidden illustration.
u2021-05-03-196	Mr. Secretary of State will be rejoined.
u2021-05-03-197	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The thing is, whatever you're saying, whatever you're saying, if you say an anti-vaccination text here in Parliament, you're against vaccination. If you want to dissuade people that the vaccine can save lives, you're anti-vaccination. We're asking you to stop acting like this. As far as the second half of your question is concerned, it is clear and clear: whatever you say, no matter how loud and whatever you point out, there is no tuition today, young people today have the opportunity to participate in higher education free of charge. [[Gergely Harvester: Less than...]] You wanted to take this away from young Hungarians. And we have also made it clear that I am confirming once again that we are going to take the steps that we have promised in the development of higher education. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-03-198	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, That concludes the immediate questions. This is the end of the debate on our agenda. Among these, because there are many, first of all, the representative of Jobbik, Mr Róbert Dudás, can say after the agenda: "I am not looking for those responsible, I am looking for solutions! It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I am bringing to this House, after the agenda, a subject that we can safely say may not be seen from the cities. I speak and plan to speak on several occasions in the future about the situation in the countryside, about catching up in the countryside, and to this end, I urge and bring to Parliament the essential things that are the basis for rural life. I have also talked on several occasions about the fact that infrastructure developments, especially road development, are the basis for everything, both in the countryside and in the city, but in the countryside there is a huge lag, much more so than in the urban environment. As long as large companies are unable to approach the settlement at the right time, no serious improvement is expected. I have said this on several occasions, and I will most probably say it until we reach the goal and these investments are made. But now I'm going to go on and talk about a problem around a service that might shock the city's ears. These are the most basic services that are often in rural areas, especially in small villages and small pulverised districts, which are at great risk: electricity supply and water supply. [[15.00]] Although it is built everywhere and works theoretically, it is enough for a larger wind, a small storm, enough for a greater rain and electricity supply, or the water supply will cease for several days. I would like to highlight the water supply. In connection with the discussion of the European Union's seven-year financial cycle ahead of us, it was also mentioned here in Parliament from the mouth of several Members, and I also urged that the full renovation of our water network system, which has been used by some experts for renovation costs of up to HUF 3000 billion should be included. This deadline for the European Union, which is of particular importance to us, must be indicated in the period ahead, and last Friday, is particularly important because it affects hundreds of thousands of people. However, in order not to go to the seven-year budget cycle of the European Union, in the present situation with regard to the Restoration Fund, Prime Minister announced last week that he would not call off the entire framework, the only part of which could be used without control. However, from what is left in Brussels right now, the water system and the water supply system in the country could be renovated. I think that failure to do so is a historical sin because we are talking about huge money. At this point, we'd have the frame for it, but we're not gonna call it off. But why should this be done? It's extremely simple: because it's outdated. Even in my mayor's day, I spoke on several occasions at county assemblies, at several other forums, about the need to use them both to help municipalities, but above all to protect the interests of the population. I am now bringing this problem before this House as a Member of Parliament and, of course, by consulting Members, representatives of local governments and mayors on this issue. But to make it clear otherwise, because it may sound strange that there are settlements where there is no water, yes, because of the rains on the weekends in Mátra and Mátraalján are settlements where the water supply has been out of service for two days. Maybe these XXIs sound weird. century in Hungary, but unfortunately, it's real. We can't just sit here and think that the framework should be there, we should call on the amount of the EU's Restoration Fund, we shouldn't spend it on unnecessary visual investment, we shouldn't spend it on 67 billion-dollar hunting exhibitions, we shouldn't spend on these services. In the event that this basic service is available and clearly available to the urban population, I think that the countryside is also available to people living in Hungary, because it is no different, we must give this opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-05-03-200	Thank you very much. On 6 May 1745, MEP Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, asked to speak after the agenda, the day of Jászkun Redemptio. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-201	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, on May 6, 276 years ago, Queen Maria Theresa signed the privilege letter of the jasians and the Kuns, the so - called redemption. This was countersigned by Chancellor Lajos Batthyány and Chancellor Ferenc Koller Xavér and certified by the great royal secret pendant seal. In most of the jasies and kunes, the XIII. They settled in Hungary in the first century. Anonymus already writes in detail about the kuns in his work Gesta Hungarorum as a people who fought with the Hungarians before the Hungarian occupation, but after the occupation of Kiev by the Hungarians, many of them joined the Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin. However, most of them went from the Mongol conquest to Central Europe and in 1239 IV. They moved to the central regions of the Hungarian kingdom on the basis of King Béla's permission. The Jasians were Iranian-speaking nomadic people. They're putting their homeland in Central Asia. They were also exposed to the Mongol conquest, as in 1223 they were defeated by the Mongols in the battle next to the Kalka River, so they joined the kuns seeking Hungary and settled together in Hungary. Their rights and obligations were laid down in the Treaty of Bajmonostor in 1240. According to this, the Jász and the Kuns received territorial self-determination and partial tax exemption in exchange for their military services. However, just before the Tartar journey, they left the country, and IV. On the call of Béla, they returned from the Al-Duna area only in 1246. From this moment on, the life and history of Jászság and Kunság have been intertwined with the history of Hungarians. CHAPTER IV László Kun confirmed their privileges in 1279 and gave them an independent legal right. Their supreme judge was the reed. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: In the first century they were still guarded by their language and their particular culture, but they were also gradually influenced by the host nation, that is, the Hungarian. Annex XV is amended as follows: The formation of the regional administrative units, the chairs, organized according to the non-blood principle, ended in the century. In Jászság, the Berény-szek, the Trenches' seat, the Light-saru chair, the Four-Saru chair were established, while the Kolbáz-saly chair, the Holy See, the Halas-sa chair, the Kecskemét-sa chair, the Kara-sa chair, the Mizse-sa chair, and the Hantos-sa chair were established in the Kiskunság. In 1498 II. Jagelló Ulaszló's laws already mention the Jász and the Kuns together, and from then on the two groups of peoples have always been mentioned together. The Turkish occupation has a negative impact on the Jász and the Kuns, since their territory is under Turkish control. Many of their settlements are depopulated during the 150 years. After the Turkish occupation, in 1696 King Lipót Habsburg I still strengthens the privileges of the Jász and Kuns, but in 1699 he suspiciously orders the population and property census of the Jász and the two kun territories. Then, in 1702, in violation of all previous privileges, without the approval of the Parliament, he sold the territory to the Order of the German Knights for HUF 500 thousand. ANNEX II Ferenc Rákóczi repealed the rights of the German Order of Knights in the Landlord already in 1703 and a year later, so it was no accident that the Jász and the Kuns took part in a very large number of freedom fights. Following the end of the War of Independence in 1711, the issue of restoring privileges was once again on the agenda. Since the Parliament did not approve or even deny the sale, the German Order saw it better to sell its rights to the Pest Invalidus Order. From 1741 Jász and Kunok launched a movement with the support of Count János Pálffy to restore their ancient rights, which led to results in four years. But it cost a lot of money. They had to create 500 thousand Rajna forints, their interest rates, 15 thousand forints, as well as the equipment of a thousand knights, as well as the assurance of the annual salary of the Rádor. After paying for this, Mary Theresa gave them a degree in redemption. It restored the ancient rights of the Jászs and Kuns and gave them phallos rights. Redemption was a new legal status for all jas and kuns after just 40 years, the status of being cast into the ranks of the serfs ceased, they won the status of a free man, and they were not dependent on any landlords. As a representative of the Hungarian Parliament, I thought it important to commemorate this anniversary here. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-05-03-202	Thank you very much. Congressman Lóránt Keresztes, the leader of the LMP group is:. Our city, called Pécs. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-203	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, After the agenda, I am always talking about the current affairs of my narrower country, Pécs and Baranya, and now I have to talk about the closure of a really terrible and, you can say, a series of serious events in historical aspects. A long, several months-long process ended with last week's vote, which the government and the pro-government representatives lied about changing models. It is quite clear that what happened to Hungarian state universities is not a change of model, but the outsourcing of universities, university wealth, university property and university decision-making and political direction and political guardianship. This process was justified by lies, universities were practically blackmailed into it, and last week both Prime Minister and Minister Gergely Gulyás made it perfectly clear that practically everything they said about this was a lie. This is absolutely amazingly irresponsible of the fact that in this lying process the largest rural universities also took place, i.e. Debrecen, Szeged and Pécs, and these universities and institutions, which are extremely important for their region and city, have also been outsourced, and it is now clear that the government press has practically ventilated what political figures, what political cadres they intend to place them under their irrevocable control. [[15.10]] I think it is absolutely necessary to remember here in the Parliament that the Fidesz MPs of Pécs and Baranya forgot once again that their mandate was not given to them by Viktor Orbán, and they are not party loyal to Viktor Orbán and not Fidesz, but are responsible to the people they represent. Péter Hoppál, Erik Bánki, Csaba Nagy and János Harghitai betrayed the people in Baranya, and with their vote contributed to the outsourcing of the University of Pécs. We know exactly who is expected or under whose direction the University of Pécs is placed. Here we are talking about two former Fidesz Vice Mayors, a former Speaker of Parliament who, let's say, is now politicalising as a model-shifting politician on the other side as a prime minister. We also know that the most prominent Secretary of State Bódis, the former Rector of the University of Pécs, is the State Secretary, the State Secretary responsible for higher education, who has not set foot in the Parliament in recent weeks, and has done so as the State Secretary responsible for higher education, to leave this shameful process as a distinguished stranger. It was a lie that we are talking about more efficient use of development resources. Each university, not only the University of Pécs, but all universities, was led by 1,500 billion European Union development funds. Gergely Gulyás simply made sure last Thursday that there was no developmental resource coming from the Union for the university. On the other hand, this is where the pro-government politicians have lied over the last few weeks, that they respect university autonomy and that there is no political intention behind curatorial appointments. Well, we should have a long list of ministers, secretary of state, who have been appointed. Orbán closed this debate on Friday. He said that he was proud that there was basically a political calculation behind the whole process. It is therefore their intention that, in the coming decades, fidesz politicians should run these extremely important institutions, the institutions whose fate is intertwined with the respective regions. I can tell you that the University of Pécs, with its nearly 20,000 students, is one of the most important universities in the country, one of the best universities in the country, and by far the largest employer of Pécs, the livelihood of thousands of families in Pécs depends on the university. So not only did they steal the university itself, they not only made such a Fidesz faith trust out of the university itself, but they practically put Pécs' future under fidesz guardianship in many ways. I repeat, with his vote, these four traitors, these four pro-government politicians, who were once again interested in the instructions they received from their party, the instructions they received from the Prime Minister, and they did not review it, they did not think about the weight of their shameful decision. I can say that personally, and as I look at it, thank God, on the opposition side, I also see that one of the most important tasks we consider is that this disgrace must be destroyed, this decision. The university autonomy must be restored, the fidesz cadres must be replaced, and an important reform process must indeed be launched in the case of the University of Pécs and, in general, in Hungarian higher education, which will really bring about the necessary efficiency gains, the important development resources really must be provided. But this, such a process, such a reform process, can only be started by considering those involved as partners, we consider the participants in higher education, the leaders of the University of Pécs and the city itself as partners, as I repeat, the fate of Pécs and the University of Pécs are intertwined. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of DK and Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-03-204	Thank you very much. Mr Gergely Farkas is the following independent Member:. Finally, he can get rid of hazardous waste by saying his speech entitled Kiskunhalas. Here.
u2021-05-03-205	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the centre of my constituency, Kiskunhalas, there has been a serious waste dump on a secluded and peri-urban property in the last ten years, but fortunately, I can now say this in the past few days, because in recent weeks, there has been a serious improvement and I would like to report this in the walls of the House. So let's start with the beginning of what happened around 2010 when this unblessed state developed! Strangler smell, rust-cut barrels, cracked concrete reservoirs, leaks such unblessed conditions dominated Bács-Reál Kft. at its former premises, which was taken over under these circumstances by the new owner of the property. The former owner of the plant failed, and for years the various authorities only passed the case against each other, should have waited for various court proceedings, official investigations, fines, while the barrels of paint, oils, solvents, acids and chemicals continued to leak, and there are areas 100-150 metres away from the site. The presence of such substances is not desirable even if it does not directly cause harm to the people living there. I also dealt with the subject a lot, I had a speech in Parliament, I submitted a number of written questions on the matter, and we were in a meeting with Secretary of State Tamás Schanda with the new owner of the property concerned, and even a few years ago, my fellow Member Lajos Kepli and I initiated the setting up of a parliamentary committee on this matter, so I think I really did the things I could do in this particular case. However, environmental organisations have also done a lot of good work, which have shown, for example, tens of times the limit values for a number of metals and mineral oils from soil samples. Now it looks like it's finally gonna work out. The NAV has issued public procurement to carry out the work, which was won by a waste management company, so they have, after all, been the ones who have started transporting hazardous waste in the last few weeks. It would also be important, in addition to transport, that complete remediation be started, so as not to leave any pollution in the soil. Recently, I visited the site myself and looked at the work that took place there. I have found that cleaning is going well, hundreds of tons of waste have already been shipped away, but it remains a problem that it is not possible to know what these leaking barrels contain, which often explode when moved. So there is no easy business for the people we worked there with. The good news is that, hopefully, the area will be cleared soon, but it would also be desirable that, by applying the polluter-pays principle, the owner of the previous crime should be charged for the restoration of the territory, and not for taxpayers to pay hundreds of millions of HUF. I ask the competent authorities to enforce this, and I urge the Government to do whatever it takes to ensure that the state register is freed and that the polluters pay for the damage caused. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of DK and Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-03-206	Thank you very much. Member Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, vice-president of the Parliament, spoke after the next agenda: Mr. Vice President.
u2021-05-03-207	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Lake Fertő is ours, the citizens of the region and the tourists. Compared to this, what do we experience these days if we could go to the shore of Lake Fertő, which, by the way, has not been available for two years? Why is that? We find that pile houses are being demolished, most of the reeds have already been wiped out around the beach, and the natural and cultural heritage that belongs to ours, the citizens of the Sopron region is being continuously damaged. Interestingly, we can't find environmental permits for the demolition of pile houses. Interestingly, their demolitions do not comply with nature conservation regulations. Interestingly, they use an exploding motorboat, which is now being demolished, and I am well aware that my father had a boat on the shore of Lake Neusiedl that only electric engines can be used there. They don't separate the demolition materials. During the entire construction process, it is practically impossible to penetrate the construction site, and anyone who wants to do so is ordered by security people who speak the Sopron dialect. But let us see why I should again mention this giga project here, within the walls of this House, in which the local Fidesz governor Attila Barcza, assisted our joint national treasure and natural treasure, Lake Fertő, is at risk. In November 2018, as a representative of the EPP Jobbik, I held the representative forum where all the stakeholders suddenly came together, because no one knew what was going to happen on the shore of Lake Fertő, despite the fact that the plans had already been made in 2015. [[15.20]] Then, in 2017, they changed these plans in an interesting way, and suddenly nobody knew how a huge hotel, apartment houses, and so on, and so on, from the gánti stones of Viktor Orbán's father, and the gigantic investment to be built by Lőrinc Mészáros, against which we, the inhabitants of the region, have protested from the beginning; moreover, in the middle of and near a Natura 2000 area. We speak from the UNESCO World Heritage Site, together with the Austrian part of Lake Fertő, which is part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site. On the other hand, as Vice-President of Parliament, I have already sent a letter to the relevant European Union and UNESCO bodies. After all, the Freunde des Neusiedlersees association, which was founded on the Hungarian side, is the territory of the historical Western Hungary, where we have always, for centuries, jointly cherished Lake Fertő with the request and demand for the appropriate bodies that this huge investment should be considered. We have detailed plans that the beach in Fertőrákos must, of course, be renovated; of course, this area needs all sorts of improvements, but in a way that is consistent with local traditions. No one can tell me where the reed-covered piles are going to go. We also know that they will no longer be anything, because they will be demolished, and instead there will be no reed-covered building, which is the tradition of the region. What happened to the nurturing? For many years, the Fidesz ruined the nading with hard-working mines, even though the nading remembers this, because my first job was the sopron newspaper of Kisalföld, and I was always the one to report on them as a journalist. In summary, we know how to develop, but we need more minor improvements so that the other settlements can get involved in this regional tourism, and we will put an end to this huge investment, if not at other times, when we hope that the new government of national unity will stand up in April 2022, which will bear the fate of Lake Fertő, as well as the fate of our other large lakes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-03-208	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, will be following: the voice of the countryside! It's called the 9th. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Without a living country there is no strong Hungary. That is what we Jobbikians say, and we also believe that the complex rural development strategy cannot be exhausted in precise investments that you are otherwise making in small settlements. During the trip to the countryside, in connection with the opening of the pubs, I thought I'd visit the small settlements and see what community life is like in the most important places of community life, the pubs are open. Well, I've had a sad experience that nearly half of the 71 settlements in our constituency have no pubs at all. This is a problem because it is an organic site of community life, but unfortunately it shows the depopulation of the countryside, shows the ageing of the countryside and shows the situation that you have created. We also remember the time when so - called national tobacco stores created a tramp dog and set foot in small settlements. This was the project that launched the pubs towards the slope, and that is why now there are stubbles, padlocks and all kinds of bars in community places that have lived better days in the past. This trafikmuty led us all the way to the bankruptcy of local businesses, local family pub operators, all in order for your governors to get rich. It is therefore not a question for us that the sale of tobacco products, which previously accounted for almost half of the revenues of the pubs, should be restored to allow communities and people living locally to have some entertainment opportunities in the smallest settlements. You have to go and walk through these settlements! When I was there now, and I went to several circles in a settlement to search for the press, the pub, and I rolled down the window of the car, and I asked, "Oh, ma'am, we've been short for a very long time, and the pub closed. So there's work to be done. We could say that the Traficans have taken over this role, but we can't say that, because there will never be a community place like pubs that understand better days. Therefore, I will also present a proposal for a decision on this subject, and I will ask you, the government, to take steps to ensure that, under certain conditions, tobacco products can be re-used in small pubs in small settlements, so that we can take steps to ensure that locals and local hosts can receive more revenue. I will ask for your support for this because I think it is in all our interests that the countryside live, because without a living countryside there is no strong Hungary. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the last week, every fisherman has been waiting for the night fishing ban to be lifted so that they can finally go fishing and hang out on the shores of Lake Balaton and in other waters before the catfish catch ban. Well, we got to the point that Mohos' announcement was made that from 28 April to the release on 1 May, yes, only the decree, which came out in the night hours on 30 April, contained that now it was only possible to fish with an immunity certificate. This is quite amazing, because between midnight and 5:00 p.m., so in those five hours without a protection certificate, fishers can be out by the waterfront, and in this period only and only with a protection certificate. We got to the point where you discriminated against the fishermen. We don't understand, but the anglers don't understand why we had to make that rule. In addition to compliance with the epidemiological measures on the waterfront, in the open air, this restriction is unacceptable and is otherwise incomprehensible. In this whole situation, which has developed around night fishing, measures have been taken that do not help fishermen's everyday life, and even such a series of outrages that it can be said that Mohos has repeatedly failed to do their job, has not protected the interests of fishermen and has failed as a representative body. We continue to ask the government to change its mind and make the night fishing available to everyone and not discriminate. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-03-210	Thank you very much. János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting address with the title "Rechange of the Age." Here you go.
u2021-05-03-211	Thank you very much. I have a dream. My dream is that with the people I grew up with and the people I spent my childhood with, in the near future, I will live in the same place again. And in the place that we all recognize as our homeland, in the place from which so many thousands have fled in recent years and decades, so many tens of thousands have fled, and I hope that these tens of thousands will return in the coming years, not by compulsion but by free will. In a peaceful county where not brother-in-law, mate and good friend prevail, but the most talented, hardest and capable. To a Peaceful county where people don't return to vegetate, but to grow, to a Peaceful county where no one feels lonely, who returns home, but everyone will be able to join a united community. I know that hearing this dream and this confession at the Fidesz headquarters there, in the county of Peace, there are many giggles of comrades now, but I don't care. I am still proud of this dream, and I am also proud that not only do I hope and desire it, but many others in Békés County too. [[15.30]] There's a lot of people in this county who want to give back the honor of the job and the wages they deserve. A lot of people in Békés County want to give back to the village and the city the feeling that it is good to live here, to give back to the elderly and young people the opportunity to prosper and live peacefully, to give back the future, the future that you have stolen from us in the last thirty years. I'm proud of the people who are there standing next to me and around me. I am proud that they believed that now is the historic time when we can turn our fate around and turn it around. We know, we know the things that you've had 30 years to realize, that the tens of thousands who left this country will not come home to the Rudi Tourist Campaign and come home to the image films, but will come home to the perspective. And, you know, the perspective is that these returning thousands can live in modern and modern homes, because the mama hotel and the saltpetering nursery aren't. Just like the minimum wage isn't perspective. The perspective is that if a person is decent at a job that he or she knows, he or she receives a salary that he or she can grow from. And the perspective is that you can spend the money you earn under quality conditions. So, comrades may giggle, but we believe that we will build such a county from 2022, even if we Peaceful County know very well that we, when such a situation exists, somehow have the hardest of all possible careers to go through and how hard it is to create value from nothing. We believe that we can build a better and more lovable Peaceful County even if you don't like it. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2021-05-03-212	Thank you very much. He applied for a post-meeting speech, honourable Parliament, Mr János Bencsik, an independent Member: Here you go.
u2021-05-03-213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There is only less than a year left until the legislative elections in 2022, and this is seen not only from government measures that have completely driven government measures and vaccination plans into propaganda steels, but also from the opposition. The pre-election, which is usually about conflicting arguments and counter-arguments in countries with better historical development, is mostly about who can disparaging the other in a more minor style and who can push a longer parizer into the voters' faces. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the European Union, They claim that the pre-election will be a celebration of democracy. But I ask how it could be something democratic, which is only in the interest of a narrow political circle, and that is the only way to get a say in it. First of all, you have made it impossible for independent representatives to run for the primary election, more precisely, if you sign a paper in advance, which of the six parties you will then sit in. So much for independence and democracy. Secondly, the majority of the districts have already been divided in advance, and each week new districts are revealed, where it is practically decided who will win the opposition pre-election. Most of the people involved do not deny this, but are proud to do so. Thirdly, the truly new, clean and credible candidates must immediately face the trap situation, who might run the opposition pre-election, that it will not be decided locally who is the best and the most credible candidate in many cases, but who has more money, who has more media and who has more mobilizing power. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the European Union, This is not a celebration of democracy. It's a hoax, it's a hoax. Preventing the current political slime from getting so clean that you'd get dirty. For people who don't get in line, the O1G media and combat commentators from various closed Facebook groups immediately tap on their heads. If anyone has any doubts about this, then look at the comments during this video. Don't you mind that the idea of a camp, the principle of a flag, is the logic of self-consciousness? Well, that is exactly what Viktor Orbán recognized and took over, which is precisely under this principle and logic, which Viktor Orbán cut the political right-hand side before 2010, it is no coincidence that this is Viktor Orbán's favorite strategy, and you are now following the same strategy, which is the continuation of the same ignominious policy. The pre-selection is not to 2022, but to XXI. It will send us to the century, but back to 1985, when, of course, in the then elections in 1985, everyone had the opportunity not to run as pro-state candidates, but finally the few independents who won their own district, and who got into Parliament, could not represent the majority of what the voters had sent him to. This is exactly what will therefore happen then, and to those right-wing opposition candidates who will win their own district as a six-party candidate for cooperation: they will assume the responsibility of joint governance with political actors before 2010, including many thieves, and dissolve themselves in this new Patriotic People's Front. There's no other way for them, there's no other way. But those who take democracy seriously, who consider politics for values, principles and programmes more important than the moment, can choose the third way, they can choose the Civil Answer. The right is more than a party, and the opposition is more than a list. The lines on the right are now equipped with far more organizations than the government side states. We are therefore waiting for everyone in our ranks who do not want Hungary to have a two-party system and to join and cement the current political elite for years. We are waiting for young people who do not want to grow up in a country without consequences. We look forward to those taxpayers who feel that they are now receiving nothing in return for their paid-up tax forints, and we look forward to those educators, intellectuals, who have been waiting in vain for thirty years for sufficient financial and social respect. We await every man responsible for his country, who respects tradition and performance. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-03-214	Thank you very much. Member László Varju, representative of the Democratic Coalition, is the following speaker: What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-215	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Our lives continue, as in the world, in Newpesten, the corona virus epidemic. Although the alleviations have started gradually, epidemiological data are slowly improving, Hungary is ranked first in the population-related death rate, so I urge caution and encourage vaccination. I have repeatedly said that the best chance of knowing our own family members safely is to use the possibility of vaccination. Its well-functioning site is also the Újpest specialist. I have been happy to tell you for weeks that Újpest has become an important stage for organized mass vaccination. Now, however, a new situation has emerged, because, unlike the previous days, vaccinations and outpatient care have taken place at the same time, with the participation of professionals who are already working nonstop. This requires discipline and attention from both the employees of the specialist clinic and the residents of Újpest, but I am sure that neither of them will be lacking. At the same time, I believe it is justified that the government, thus Minister Miklós Kásler, should take the necessary steps to allow doctors and nurses removed from the district to return to their original jobs. In addition, I believe it is necessary to give back to the maintenance of professional control rights, which are excluded from the district; and this includes the government's obligation to recognise fairly the work of doctors and health workers who have participated in the vaccination. But in this context, I clearly support and welcome the initiative that Klára Dobrev, Vice-President of the European Parliament and our opposition MEPs, nominated Hungarian health workers for the European Citizens' Award. I think that what these people have done is incredibly important and valuable, and even if it is not possible to express all recognition in words, we must make every effort to do so. I think they know that I think it is important to develop health services regardless of the epidemic, so I would also like to share a joyful future development that is taking place here with us. [[15.40]] The design of the loco rehab centre, which is carried out in the newpest specialization center, within the framework of the program, is ready. The implementation will, of course, take place through public use and, of course, under public procurement. As the parliamentary representative of the district, I believe it is important that we slow down our progress as much as possible with the coronal virus epidemic. However, the economic consequences of the health crisis also affect municipalities and businesses. Therefore, I believe it is important that the government not only compensates the settlements below 25,000 people for the abstract resources, but also returns what is due to our district, and that the next period should be planned accordingly. Finally, I would like to welcome the graduation young people in Újpest. I'm joining Katalin Bedő, Deputy Mayor of Újpest, who said, "Go, young people!" Take your exams successfully. We know that graduations don't have a simple year. After unusual teaching and learning, accounting will not be easy, but even graduation has been cancelled. We're all sorry, but despite all the difficulties, the completion of high school studies is an important moment, and for each and every one of us will change their lives in different ways. The virus is not the last obstacle to be overcome. I know you and your family are doing everything you can to succeed, but if you have to, you can count on us. For example, we initiated with the government to allow students who are sick or quarantined to pass their graduation exams at a later date, but still during the same exam period. It is difficult for those who are unable to take an exam now because of the epidemic or quarantine, because they may lose the opportunity to start their studies in higher education in the fall. The student, the child, is more important than the rigid rules. In an exceptional situation, flexible measures are needed. So come on, young people, we're all rooting for you. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-03-216	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK:. The international school of the billionaire, Fidesz Debrecen, for the reason of the epidemic, gives a new million-dollar support with the title of the mayor of Debrecen. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, If someone is now remorseful to talk about the international school in Debrecen again, then they are right to do so. I've only talked about this school three times in the House walls in the last year. School itself is a wonderful thing, a real XXI. It's a hundredth-century, camouflage-turning institution. Debrecen is in the most beautiful place in the heart of the Great Forest, bird chirping, huge oak trees and all that can be measured by a good school: the state-of-the-art equipment, the perfect course, very good teachers. The only problem is that the international school in Debrecen is the iron circle of wood. The international school in Debrecen is a typical case of Fidesz robbery innovation. The international school is the vet horse of Fidesz, and the reason I have to talk about it again is because there's more spins growing on it, more boils, which shows that it's not a normal thing, it doesn't work like a school. How else could it work like that? Now let's go over the history of the school quickly. It is memorable that within the framework of the programme "Modern Cities" Viktor Orbán himself encouraged the establishment of the school. They then referred to the fact that the children of the management of the BMW plant that was to be established would be coming here, and that is why this school is needed. Orbán took the school's fate to heart so much that he himself decided to allocate HUF 4 billion to the school. And as I said, with a stormy speed, very soon, very good quality, in the most beautiful part of town, this school is finished. A camouflage rotating, equipped with state-of-the-art equipment, equipped with separate bodyguards, and unfortunately protected by a system, cameras, hermetically isolated, but real XXI. We're talking about a century-old institution. It is a miracle where the inhabitants of Debrecen and their children, so practically no one except the selected Fidesz economic and political elite, can enter their feet, even though not only the 4 billion HUF construction fee and investment fee were public money, but since then the municipality of Debrecen has been providing hundreds of millions of HUF a year, so they are hand-in-hand taxpayers of the city of Debrecen for the operation of this school. The formula is simple: how else can a public institution actually be built with public money to create a real elitist, closed educational institution? By introducing the tuition fee. That's what happened here. They're picking up applicants with millions of tuition fees. An apparent scholarship system has been developed, even at the special request of the DKs in Debrecen, and despite all this, the students at the international school in Debrecen are lurking around, and its utilisation is barely at 20 percent. We know very well that the BMW factory has not been built since then, and the operation of the school, let me tell you, leaves something to be desired, but according to the mayor, according to the Fidesz governor, this is the most natural thing in the world. Just as the mayor believes that the government has taken away its educational institutions from the city, like the other settlements, with the cry that the municipality, once again, is unable to run an educational institution well. This is natural for the fidesz political elite who dominates the city. After that, this school appeared here, and it seems that this school, on the other hand, can be taken under their name and run well. What are we looking at? We see that a public-funded and mostly public-funded educational institution with almost unique facilities and quality in the country, although it is built out of public money and maintained by public funds, is treated as a private school in all its tastes. The tuition, as already mentioned, could reach more than HUF 5 million a year. And after that, the news came out of the sky that, taking advantage of the health emergency under the guard of the pandemic, László Papp, Fidesz mayor of Debrecen, whose child is also a student of this institution, practically self-destructive, with the complete exclusion of public opinion and the general assembly, provided rent support to the institution without any particular justification. The municipality of Debrecen now pays HUF 31 million to keep this school richer. There have been a lot of questions about this. We put it in writing to the mayor, and, of course, we haven't received an answer since. Let me just say it's okay, he'll answer not only that in 2022, but all our questions. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-03-218	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Arató, representative of the Democratic Coalition, notary of the National Assembly, is as follows:. Kőbány and Kispest need a title for non-governmental visual investment, stadium building, but good roads, reliable buses and family parks. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-219	Thank you very much. We could say that we can no longer be surprised when we are watching the government's decisions on the Economic Protection Fund, but the fact is that we did have a bit of a struggle when we saw that the government decided in the middle of the coronal virus epidemic to provide more than HUF 330 million in additional support to build a covered Velodrom, i.e. a race bicycle track in Stone Mine, and, of course, to cover the costs of this from the Economic Protection Fund, because this is clearly the most effective way to combat the epidemic and the economic effects of the epidemic. To understand, honourable Members, this is not just a matter of anything, because the total investment of 620 million HUF is a metal-structured tent hall with 4500 sq m of related public works, lighting, bathrooms, walking tunnel, which seems to be indispensable at a sports facility today, as well as a 200 m long, 6 m wide, curved track. What you understand is that entrepreneurs who are in a difficult situation because of the epidemic, to help and support people who have lost their jobs, and to restart the economy, will build another sports facility and stadiums. [[15.50]] It's amazing that in the middle of the epidemic, the Orbáns are throwing millions and billions of the Economic Protection Fund into sports investments, hunting world fairs, church renovations as if there were no tomorrow. In addition, the site of the construction is an area at the back of the Sportliget, which is linked to the Sportliget. In other words, the Kőbánya people will also lose the opportunity to expand the Sports Grove in this area, create a new public park and provide sports opportunities. I would like to make it perfectly clear that Kőbány and Kispest need non-governmental visual investment, not stadium construction, but good roads, reliable public transport and buses, good social services, family parks, maintenance of green areas. The organizers were so kind, and seeing a Facebook post, I was invited to this project's press conference on Wednesday. I will not be able to go to this meeting of the Parliamentary Committee, but I also sent them three questions in writing, and I would like an answer to that. My first question is how it will serve the objectives of the Economic Protection Fund, i.e. re-launching the economy, helping businesses and workers in difficulty, this HUF 330 million, this construction. My second question is that you asked people in the area, anyone in Kőbány, about whether they needed another sport investment, or if I wanted to spend this money on something else, such as roads, public transport or parks. Thirdly, I would also like to ask you if you asked the people in the area, asked anyone to expand the Sports Grove in this area, and to create a public park in this way, and to grow the area where leisure sports are possible, where families and people living in the Stone Mine and even in the wider area can play sports and practice a healthy lifestyle, or rather this Velodrom is needed. I wonder how you will answer these three questions, but if you do not have a reassuring answer, I have a very simple suggestion. Give this 330 million HUF to the Municipality of Kőbánya instead. They can't even say I'm talking home, there's a fidesz mayor right now. Believe me, the Municipality of Kőbánya will know better what the district needs, and it will use this money for far more useful purposes. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-03-220	Thank you very much. The representative of Jobbik, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, is as follows: It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-221	Mr President, Dear House, When it comes to economic issues, the current government of Hungary is always acting as if he is a warrior defender of domestic economic interests, as if he were pursuing some kind of patriot economic policy, and today he bled before the Parliament's Committee on Enterprise Development the opposition proposals that would provide substantial assistance to Hungarian families and small Hungarian businesses. Let's take a look at these. There has been a lot of talk in this House about the replacement of lost wages. Now, according to one proposal, there would have been 90 percent wage support, including, where appropriate, backwards for those who have lost wages, wages, income, and we consider it important to say here that 41 percent of people in Hungary in the last year have lost their income and income in a measurable manner, which is a brutal number. This means that almost every second of our countrymen have been affected in some way, indirectly or directly, by the crisis. This proposal was not only voted down by Fidesz but also prevented us from discussing it in a much broader context at the plenary session of Parliament. The same was the case for those who were forced into their homes because of Covid's infection, and at that time we had not even talked about those who had to deal with babysitting because of a sick family member or for any other external reason. In all similar cases, the bettery-goody, but I think that all opposition parties are committed to providing 100 percent of the sick money to our typically ill-fated compatriots, not forcing anyone to choose between the interests of protecting the health of their family members and preserving their salary. These opposition proposals were therefore bled to death, because a government calling itself a national would not not only defend its Hungarian citizens, it did not even dare to argue about this before the plenary session of Parliament. At the same time, when they go out to Brussels, Strasbourg, as presented at great length and press conferences, the one-time television viewer would think that these gentlemen are fighting for Hungarian national interests, those gentlemen who may have turned from young Democrats to old Bolsheviks, because when it comes to the interests of large multi-company companies, they begin to take the most sluggish approach to this issue, completely betraying Hungarian national interests. A few months ago, in relation to large multinational companies, a draft legislation at European level came to light, which was to say that these megacompanies should publish, by country, how much profits have been made, thus making it possible to see which budget has been freed from billions or hundreds of billion forints by tax avoidance, so how much is missing from the revenue side. Not so interestingly, the Government of Hungary was one that tried to prevent this proposal, and tried to prevent the activities of these companies from becoming visible by country. They did this in the midst of a climate and a period when the net value of the Hungarian average payment is almost exactly halfway between Slovenia and Kosovo once again: Slovenia and Kosovo, and that is why expert studies are being conducted in the analysis of the G7 portal, which is trying to determine the loss of tax due to the specific tax optimization of multi-company companies. It is estimated that in five years, the Hungarian State gave up almost 500 billion forints in corporate tax relief, Fidesz-KDNP, since these studies can be dated in the area of 2015 and for the period thereafter. What this 500 billion-dollar scale means: by magnitude, it represents the turnover of all online stores in Hungary in 2017, about half of the annual EU grants in the average years, if we look at this period since 2010, or even the total expenditure on defence in 2019. What we see is that while this government is lying to itself about national rhetoric and trying to pour itself down with a national syrup, it tolerates the fact that, while the 30 largest companies that have been examined achieved revenues of HUF 11 000 billion during the period under consideration, only HUF 23 billion of corporate tax was paid by the same 30 large companies. I do not mean to suggest that there is no need for multi-enterprises, because well-functioning multinationals and banks are very strictly needed by all healthy national economies, but this can only be on the basis of public burdens and must always be a sign of equality between the Hungarian national interest and any other issue that arises, the national interest must always precede what the Orbán government is dealing with. So there is a need for the activities of large companies here, but the relation sign cannot point in a direction where the Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises sector suffers disadvantages. Public burdens are the key word, and that is what we will insist on in the future. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-05-03-222	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anett Bősz, representative of DK, is coming: So I wouldn't be good with the title "Defeat" either. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Some of you may remember that last week, I listed the values of Érd, a piece of its colorful history before this House, which now belong to its ruins, because without central resources, the city does not have enough money to renovate them, so instead of a street museum, they can only show the present generations what happens when a city has bad owners for more than ten years. That's what happened to Medley. I do not wish to re-list monuments that would have been renovated with sufficient attention, expertise, understanding care and central budgetary resources. If the city had only so much trouble with the free-running Fidesz leadership between 2006 and 2019 that these monuments were waiting for renovation, we would be happy, but unfortunately that is not the case. The former management of the city even left us with a European Union penalty, worth some 70 million forints. This happened because many public procurements were carried out without competition by the city's fidesz leaders. [[16.00]] They won't guess, it was one of the relatives of the former deputy mayor, István Bács, who won the most of these. The lucky gentleman, by the way, was able to invest about 1.5 billion dollars in the city. Together with his former boss, the former deputy mayor at war with declarations of assets, István Bács has not drawn attention to himself in recent days. At least this year, we can see something from these declarations of assets against the declarations of assets that were not published at the time of the previous management. In the previous era, they had to be sued, as did András T. Mészáros, István Bács or any Fidesz representative. It is difficult to explain why András T. Mészáros, who became one of the fastest-rich mayors in the country, does not want to stand up proudly to the citizens and show how he was as good at business as he has acquired city power over and over again. But back to István Bács, who recently spoke of a journalist asking about a member loan of HUF 71 million, which István Bács did not mention in his declaration of property that a quote would follow - I hope I do not offend him, but in my private opinion you are a lying, malicious, manipulative, rotten, stinking communist who would sell his soul just to stand out from among his fellow propagandaists to his masters and to the rest of the like-haired unwitting people. The Fidesz of Érd couldn't lose with his head held high, but it wasn't a coincidence. Almost every day, the new leadership finds evidence that not only in a cultural sense, but in an economic and social sense, Fidesz leadership abandoned this city. András T. Mészáros was extremely ill-managed by taxpayers and the city's penis. There's a lot of questions as to when investigations will lead to results in this case. The question of principle, however, is that those who ask for the voter's trust should not then engage in unbridled money scams and puffs. It is the job of politicians, honourable Members, to serve, not to abuse power. This is what neither András T. Mészáros nor István Bács knew. And taking into account the many hundreds of millions of forints of return transactions that the city that owned only 15 billion forints a year has suffered, because they have not been able to develop industrial parks properly, they have not made any substantial contribution to the development of local industrialisation tax revenues, to the development of the economic environment. I have to say that I would not be able to lose my head either, my honourable fellow Members, because the gentlemen who, in all our hopes, will be responsible for the money in court, I must say that, since 13 October 2019, there has been constant evidence that the citizens of the city of Érd have made the right choice: Fidesz of Érd has already paid for the arrogance on 13 October 2019. I hope, by the way, that they will all be held accountable in court for the material damage they have done to our city. We're working here, and I'm working myself to make this change nationwide. I work to change the government, and finally to put politicians, not only at the head of the cities, but also here, in the parliamentary benches, who know precisely that it is appropriate and necessary to serve the citizens whose trust we are asking for. That the members of the Fidesz of Érd prove every day what it is, not only the Érd, but the Fidesz of Hungary, is our personal luck. Gentlemen, I wish you all the best. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2021-05-03-224	Thank you very much. Congressman László Hajdu, representative of the Democratic Coalition, applied for a post-scheduled speech: a city centre on the outskirts of the city. Here you go.
u2021-05-03-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, A simple economic story about my constituency, which I would like to say here today in front of the public of Parliament. The change of regime last year was 30 years ago. Covid was the reason we couldn't really deal with the 30th anniversary of the change of regime. The regime change came to us in 1994 on the outskirts of the city, in Rákospalota, in Pestújhely, in New Palace, and one of the results is that the left-wing government was led and controlled by Gyula Horn, and the investors arrived to the outskirts of the city, which we thought would be coming here at the time of the change of regime. But the closure of the socialist companies came, and we got a good deal of it, but from 94 onwards, the capital flow started in our direction as well. 25 years ago, a quarter of a century ago, in an empty Russian barracks, Sándor Demján asked and received permission to build the Polus Center. So 25 years ago, we didn't believe, we didn't even know what the Polus Center was for the Cathedral and the grocery store was in our district of 85-90 thousand inhabitants at that time, and when he said that he was going to build a city centre of nearly 80,000 square meters, where commercial, cultural, leisure places, everything in it, even the customer service, the bank and the post office, we didn't believe this thing. 11 months after laying the foundation stone, we initiated the Polar Center. 25 years ago, a new life began, a new trade culture in the district. This has obviously led to new competitions, as the other competitors have built new businesses alongside it. So not only did Sándor Demján receive a title as a city builder, but also as an honorary citizen of the XV. in the district, but because he had the courage to use a Russian barracks near a cemetery, neglected to use it so that today and at that time, the only shopping mall in Eastern Central Europe was one that had an American system, and in which everything can be found from the pedestrian street to the ice rink; we simply didn't want to believe it. And shopping tourists showed up, which was a problem for us. Shopping from the neighbouring former socialist countries with buses appeared, huge traffic appeared. There were 2,200 new jobs, very significant tax revenues, and a buzz in the area, which meant that they migrated not only from our district, but also from the various districts of Budapest, and from Újpalota, which is administratively closest to this shopping centre, could be approached by walking. Compared to today's shopping malls, leisure centers, you can also go shopping by car, this is the type of place when I walk and shop from the 40,000 housing estate. So this isn't a car shopping mall, classic. I think that the 120 million at the time was measured in Canadian dollars, there was an investment in Hungary that did not have to be given public money, there was no need to give support to the State, and the Hungarian State was able to obtain huge tax revenues from it, so it was beneficial. And maybe one more: in six years, the investment that the investor put in there has been repaid 100 percent. We would need such investments, without public money, without using European money, with real Hungarian capital, because this is an investment built on Hungarian capital. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2021-05-03-226	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 17 May. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. Good afternoon, good evening, everyone. Goodbye.
