u2021-10-04-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon. The 5th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Bence Tordai will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to the Hungarian Parliament and everyone who is monitoring our work. Dear Parliament, Today we start our work with speeches before the agenda. Then, from 12:15 a.m. to 13:45 a.m., and then from approximately 13:45 a.m. to 14:45 a.m., the hour of immediate questions and answers will take place; finally, after the agenda, we will finish the meeting of the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Dialogue, the notary of the Parliament, Mr Bence Tordai, has applied for a pre-meeting address with the title "On Current Affairs." Here you go.
u2021-10-04-1	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, I realized that no matter what I was talking about in front of the Parliament, the appointed Fidesz Secretary of State will answer with an acute ringing. If I bring up public policy issues, if I talk about low wages, low pensions, fast inflation, broken education, health care, the social sphere, then you'll come up with how much worse everything was in the Gyurcsány era. When I bring up the theme of the pre-election, you come up with the fact that, well, what we have more than 630,000 voters who have declared their will, this is just a Gyurcsány show; whether two thirds of the voters voted for it or not for the candidates of your party, you consider yourself to be this nonsense claim, and even tell us that Ferenc Gyurcsány is the boss of all of us, which is yet another obvious nonsense. If I come up with fidesz scandals, if I come up with the Fudan case, the Pegasus case, nearly a hundred billion forints spent on the World Hunting Exhibition, the thousand billion-dollar thefts, then they're all like, "Gyurcsány." Dear Fidesz Colleagues! I must tell you that this is pathetic; it is absolutely pathetic, and it only exposes their incompetence, their lack of performance. On the other hand, it is incomprehensible that if everything is so exclusively about Ferenc Gyurcsány on the opposition side, then why would they attack Gergely Christmas? It's a rather surprising turn of events that they spend hundreds of millions of dollars on discrediting Gergely Christmas, spreading lies about her, and yet they're alarming Gyurcs. That doesn't seem very logical. If the former were the leader of the opposition, why are they trying to put the latter in the mud? Well, I'll solve the mystery, fellow citizens: Fidesz people aren't completely insane, they're not stupid. There are two things they know very well: stealing or stealing, as we please, we do not like at all, and there will be consequences. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Why are you lying?]] The other thing they know how to do is power technology. One of the rules of power is to choose your battles. Orbán has elected his battle, he wants to fight the battles of the past over and over again, because Viktor Orbán knows that he can only win the battles of the past. And that is why he is very afraid of the man of the future, Gergely Christmas; and therefore he is very afraid of the battles of the future, because he knows that he will lose it with the Fides. Viktor Orbán is playing to share, and for this he is very useful for the person of the former Prime Minister, who is also a divisive player in politics; and he is very afraid of the opposition unity, because he knows that the united opposition will defeat him, he can defeat Fidesz in the parliamentary elections next spring. That's why he's afraid of Gergely Christmas, because he's the common denominator, because Gergely Christmas is still working to build the alliance of the future. It is the alliance of the future in which the opposition can unite. It is the alliance of the future that can defeat the man of the past, Viktor Orbán, who is still trying to fight the battles of the past next spring. And at the head of the future alliance, Gergely Christmas will be the next Prime Minister of Hungary who will reunite Hungary [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: As Budapest! Just like Budapest!]] Because in recent times, you have completely torn the nation apart: digging untraceable trenches in political terms; tearing it apart in economic terms when the privileged few, the fidesz top tens of thousands of billions, while the vast majority of the country lives every month and has no real prospects. And you have also torn the country apart in a moral sense, because the moral depth where you have fallen cannot be justified in any other way than to try to make the opposition believe that they are in similar depths. So you are very afraid of the alliance of the future; you are very afraid that the opposition will unite and that Gergely Christmas will unite Hungary, because it turns out that the philosophy that Viktor Orbán is following is divided and dominated. , the principle can be replaced by, unite and serve! The principle that Gergely Christmas stands for. So the alliance of the future, headed by Gergely Christmas, will represent this policy, and I look forward to Mr. Secretary of State's reply, in which he will certainly say that Gyurcsány will also confirm my right. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the independent benches.]]
u2021-10-04-2	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, reflects. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I've seen a man afraid in the last few weeks, really, when he met a journalist, so much that you had to protect him that he didn't have to answer the questions by accident. He's the only one who's been really scared these past few weeks. So much for fear. I would very much like to talk about wages here in Parliament, too, if you hadn't spent 90 percent of your speech with the primary. I would like to talk about the 70 percent increase in real wages in Hungary during the current governance. We could talk about how the minimum wage could increase to 200,000, starting from around 73,000. We could talk about a medical raise, a 72 percent increase in nursing wages, and the law enforcement staff will get six months' worth of arms, and the line is far from complete. And then even about the family tax refund, which will mean up to 2 million Hungarian families with hundreds of thousands of HUF refund, we haven't even talked about it yet. It's nothing new, but you're recommending Gergely Christmas to the attention of the country, and you're saying she's the right person to lead the country. They say he has the ability to decide, and otherwise he's already put something on the table; and if I understand correctly, they say he's the man of the future. But let's look at the power of decision first. We've had question marks here, in fact, they were the only ones, and the process called the pre-election actually just confirmed them. And I understand that you are personally disturbed by the presence of Ferenc Gyurcsány, but the point is that Gergely Christmas would not be able to come out of the shadow of the Autumn eyeball if she wanted to. And it is not only that your candidate has been working as a consultant to him during the autumn speech, but also that in recent days it has been decided that the Democratic Coalition, so Ferenc Gyurcsány's party, will be the determining force, the greatest force on the left. They claim most candidates, you know very well, while the so-called party of Christmas Gergely can only seven places. [[He's showing seven with his hands.]] To make a candidate. No one, but no one, can seriously believe that under these circumstances, Gergely Christmas would be able to make a decision on her own. [[Bence of Turda shows three.]] And he doesn't want to. Because what did you say this weekend? I quote: I was the one who demanded that the Democratic Coalition not be left out of opposition cooperation, among other things I demanded a common list said Gergely Christmas, and now they're pretending there's some kind of conflict between you. What Gergely Christmas said, in fact, is clear speech, and after that, even though they play conflict, everyone knows that people from 15 years ago want to come back, the difference is that now they want to put someone else in the window. [[11.10]] Another important question is what is the achievement that would make Gergely Christmas fit to lead the country. It has been almost two years since the municipal elections, and everyone can see the difference here in Budapest. Everyone can see that Budapest is unleaded, and the price of this is paid by many people in Budapest and many rural areas, including by standing in traffic for several hours, and instead of doing something, they arrange the whole thing by going on foot. They're totally tearing out the well of cynicism. We could say anything, and you can say anything, but István Tarlós was never such a mess. Never! Traffic chaos is not enough, public safety is deteriorating, and public cleanliness is deteriorating. In two years, we've been going back over a decade, straight to the Demszky era. One thing we ask is that, before you get too involved in campaigning, at least sometimes you should warn your own candidate that there is enough work to be done in Budapest, a task that he doesn't care about at all, at least sometimes in the big campaigning, he should take a few minutes for the capital. Why is that important? Because if they can't sort out Budapest's affairs, they can't handle the country either, especially from the shadow of Ferenc Gyurcsány. I'm sorry this is awkward for you, but it's still real. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-4	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the LMP, representative of the LMP, asked for a pre-meeting address on the current affairs. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. I am going to draw attention to the fact that, in addition to the great campaigning, you cannot deal with fundamental issues that determine the fate of the country, and I would like to refer to such a case. We have been seeing him for many years, and for many years we have been drawing attention to the fact that Viktor Orbán and the largest project of the government, Paks II, are bleeding from a thousand wounds. We can see that you made basically bad strategic decisions, and then you're trying to run after the events. The investment is very late, the Russians couldn't make the right plans for time. The Director General of the licensing authority resigned during the period of authorisation. All of a sudden, you have replaced the Secretary of State for Energy Policy, and now you're trying to get the National Atomic Energy Office under political control. We saw that last Friday we read quite shocking information: the deadline for the authorisation procedure expired, and the authority rejected Paks II. the granting of its authorisation, and 12+3 months have expired. We have also seen that it is not inaccuracies, it is not an overdue reason for rejecting this authorisation, but very, very serious, fundamental questions, on which there is no answer on your part that can be interpreted. They have not answered the problems of cooling, which we have been talking about for a very, very long time, and professional circles have also drawn attention to this. There is no response to the final disposal of high-activity radioactive waste. And what is an amazingly depressing and shocking development is that it can now become clear to everyone that you want to build a nuclear power plant over an active breaking zone, and you will not give a meaningful answer to professionals who are asking questions about it. In practice, it was also acknowledged that further delays would be expected, as they began to talk about the possibility of a further extension of operational time for nuclear power stations currently operating. I think we can all agree here that these are fundamental issues. This is not only a multi-billion-dollar investment, but also the future of the Hungarian nation and the security of the Hungarian people. Therefore, I believe that the case, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, is responsible for the project's primary responsibility, to give a clear answer to fundamental questions in public and here in public. Give me an answer as to why they want to design a nuclear power plant above an active fault line. The Russians are planning this investment. According to Russian law, this could not have been the case to build a new nuclear power plant block in the area of an active breaker zone. But they do not even comply with Hungarian legislation. There were various geological reports leaking, which prevented experts from proving that there have been no earth movements here in the past specified time that would not be able to cause displacements on the surface of the earth. So answer the questions of earthquake security. It's true that the news is that the Paks II. Zrt. and among the experts of the licensing authority, there has been a strong professional debate, and is it true that, once again, based on leaked information, the subject of the dispute could be at all that the people of the licensing authority, the Atomic Energy Agency, believe that the documentation is not of sufficiently good quality, and that there are many statements that are not sufficiently substantiated? They should also respond to how they intend to solve the problem of the need for permanent disposal of high-activity radioactive waste and spent fuel. We know that there is no proper solution to this issue in terms of funding, technology or location choice. And finally answer the question as to why the extension of the operating hours of the existing blocks has come up again. I tried to question Mr Kaderják State Secretary here in Parliament three or four times, by the time he finally said it, not long before he was replaced, that this could not be an option. We know that there has already been an extension of the operating time for the current blocks, and that the new extension is no longer an option. Has this changed on the part of the government? We are very, very much looking forward to the reply of Prime Minister and the government's authorities that, on the basis of the information available, you will at all expect that the Russians will be able to produce plans and authorisation documentation according to Hungarian and European standards, and will not allow this gigantic investment at all. To remind you and to remind the public, you gave the Russians this investment without a tender many years ago. I can say what we have said many times in recent years, that we are convinced that if someone acts in accordance with national interests, they will do everything in their power to stop this gigantic investment, and I can also promise you that if the change of government takes place, the government of the current opposition will review this gigantic and one-thousand-bleeding failed investment. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-04-6	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Mr Pál Kovács, State Secretary, reflects. Here.
u2021-10-04-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Chief of Staff, Indeed, you are right that the fate of this country is quite seriously affected at some level by what will happen to the energy of this country. The construction of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant was decided five decades ago, and the question was that we would deal with radioactive waste, but let's get in line. I'd like to start by saying that the National Atomic Energy Agency and the Paks II. The only thing that is going on here is that it is a licence holder's role, and the licensee acknowledges what the independent authority requires him to do. So there's no room for debate here. Professional discussions can and will take place between the National Atomic Energy Agency and the Paks II Project Company. As you know, the Minister without the Paks wallet is also responsible for this work and the distribution of the work between the wallets, so we are only concerned with coordination, with the leadership of the National Atomic Energy Office, and we almost do not meet his head, only in cases where he makes decisions and presents these decisions to us. As for the cooling of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, the cooling of Paks II. In the case of Paks I and Paks II, a technical solution can be applied to temperatures that will not interfere with the temperature of Paks I or Paks II. its function. Paks I and Paks II. its parallel operation is possible for a very, very short period, since the lifetime extension and operating licence of the nuclear power plant will expire by then. [[11.20]] I would like to reassure you that at the moment, as at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, Paks I, currently operating, there are ideas on the basis of which you will continue to think in lifetime extension, that decision will be placed at your table, since, under the nuclear power law, the nuclear power law, this decision requires parliamentary power and Parliament's prior approval in principle. So they won't miss out on anything if such a decision is made. I think that this decision will be a question of a serious economic analysis at the time, whether it is worth doing this lifetime extension and is technically feasible. And, of course, the National Atomic Energy Office will also have to decide that this is sufficiently safe for the country. So these questions will definitely be on your desk. With regard to the disposal of high-activity waste, I can tell you that Hungary set an excellent example not only in Europe but also in the world when it created this facility in Bátaapáti. Since, I say, fifty years ago, the decision was made to deal with nuclear energy, we rely on nuclear energy for safer energy supply and diversification, so the issue has been resolved, and the question of how to deal with the issue of high-activity waste is also on the table. Of course, there is a solution, there will be a solution, but this solution also depends on what technical solutions may be created in the future; for example, the recycling of spent fuels will come to the table or not, and who will be able to implement this technology and with what conditions. I would like to reassure you that we are working seriously on this work together with our Russian partner, at least Paks II. and in the case of Paks I, we will see what opportunities are available. It is also important to know that, at the moment, such a method will be possible in the case of rapid-neutron reproductive reactors, which is currently being carried out by the Russian party in the case of a lead-cooled 300-megawatt reactor. In the case of an active fault line, I would like to quote to you the evaluation published by the National Atomic Energy Office in May, which reads:. The existence of a seeding system in the vicinity of the Paks site has been known for at least half a century. The very detailed and complex studies carried out to establish the Paks II project, such as satellite scans and the knowledge accumulated over the past 30 years, demonstrate that even earthquakes with a frequency of 10 million years cannot cause a shift in the area that would have a substantial impact on the safety of the power plant. So I'd like to reassure you on that, too. I would just like to give an example very briefly: if a hammer is dropped on block 4, then our microseismic control system cannot show that it really was an earthquake or something else. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-8	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, A representative of the Democratic Coalition may speak now. Mr Zoltán Varga gives his opinion on the subject of current affairs. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We can experience one of the rare moments of grace when I can identify with one sentence of Secretary Csaba Dömötör. This is that DK is a dominant and greatest force on the current opposition side. That's how it's gonna stay. Because the Democratic Coalition and Clara Dobrev won the primary. The DK and its Prime Minister candidate and I have some bad news for you, however, in your programme, accountability is given a very important role. It cannot be that those who have stolen our common wealth or EU funds [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Small mansion!]] that all the ugliness that they have committed against the Hungarian people will be saved. Of course, the same applies to all those who covered for themselves. The winner of the first round of the opposition pre-election in every county and county seat, Klára Dobrev, who won 85 victories in the 106 district, has, among other things, the success of representing the cause of accountability most consistently. That is what I would like to confirm here and now within the walls of this House. The Democratic Coalition wouldn't tax stolen property. If we did so, it would mean that in some way we would view theft as legitimate or acceptable, in any way, any form of taxing public wealth. This is unacceptable to the Democratic Coalition. No, there isn't and there won't be a Tiborcz tax. Or there won't be a butcher's lifeline, because we're just gonna take these money back. The rule to be followed after April 2022 is very simple for us: the stolen money will be taken back and the guilty will be imprisoned. One of the most important tasks of the next government will be that Hungary joins the European Public Prosecutor's Office, helping to investigate criminal matters and to account for those responsible. And, yes, the Attorney General must leave, a man who has not carried out any substantive investigation into a number of Fidesz politicians, and in other cases he wanted opposition politicians, and he still wants to rape me innocently or with false confessions. We will recreate the mistrials and reports that are resting in one of the desk drawers, and we will launch new investigations. And, well, part of the accountability is that we are finally returning to the Hungarians the Balaton, the hotels, the agricultural land, the factories, the financial institutions, the universities and God knows what else. And as Klára Dobrev said, there is no peace until the accountability has taken place. And if someone thinks that there is a change of government without accountability and that everything can remain the same, it is, please, a big mistake. This would mean that the new government could fail in months. The country expects the names of those responsible and accountability from the new government. And Klara Dobrev will continue to act as she has done. The first round of pre-elections held with outstanding participation has given us the strength and opportunity of hell. We're going on this road, and you, the Fidesz and the Orbán government, are free to prepare to investigate the crimes committed, and the guilty will be punished. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-04-10	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In fact, you announced in your speech that the Democratic Coalition and Ferenc Gyurcsány won the primary. I think that's what's real. The Communists have always been very, very good at one thing, and that's one thing that's been debauchery. It's not some kind of evil butcher's devious operation. It's a political maneuver that ends everyone's salami ending. Indeed, this is what happened in the primary, and you have humiliated the other opposition parties and given them the salami end. This is undoubtedly a political achievement, so in this sense I can only congratulate you. But one thing I would like to make clear is that we on the civilian side will not allow Ferenc Gyurcsány and his party to return to power, and we will do everything we can to prevent this. Why is it important to prevent this? Because we have heard many promises here in your speech, but one thing the Communists have never understood is that promises are promises that they are not affected by changes in circumstances. You never understood that, and you never kept it. You promised the Hungarian people grass and tree flowers 15 years ago, but then reality changed completely. In reality, what happened 15 years ago was that Ferenc Gyurcsány admitted as Prime Minister that he ruled the country to the edge of bankruptcy and that in the campaign the country was deceived. It turned out that instead of the promises made by the left at that time, IMF loans, tax increases and restrictions would follow. You can talk about raising pensions, family tax incentives, supporting young people, it's all a story. When they were on the government, they took away the 13th month pension, abolished the family support system, took a month's salary, took the wages from the Hungarian people. There are Members of Parliament sitting in the Parliament on the left, who also lost their salary, for example, when they were university employees. The price of gas and electricity was doubled by three times, and they wanted to make health and higher education pay in a crisis. As far as municipalities are concerned, it can only be said that the municipalities did not receive HUF 800 billion, which should have been used to carry out mandatory public tasks. [[11.30]] The opposite, exactly, is what you Communists always do, anyway, is what your opponents are accused of doing. It was the same then, and it is the same now. For example, in relation to municipalities, HUF 800 billion was taken out of the pockets of the municipalities, and then I do not even talk about the shameful campaign they conducted against dual citizenship and Hungarians across the border. So the fact is, honourable Member, that there are different political bluffs to be made here, and we know it and the Hungarian people know exactly that you must not believe anything of it. You shouldn't believe what you're asking. By the way, as the other parties of the opposition were humiliated at a nice communist pace in the Gyurcsány theatre called the pre-election, I would like to congratulate you on that. Finally, one last remark, if I may: you said, Mr President, here we have found very good that you do not want to tax the stolen property. I understand that, because if you were to tax the stolen property, you'd have to move out of the tiny villa. It wouldn't be good for you. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-04-12	Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, gives his pre-meeting address on current issues. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-13	Thank you very much. Dear House, Fellow Members! It was the 1st October of the World Older Day, and I think the representatives sitting on both sides of the horseshoe agree that the security of incomes in old age for all people who are retired is a privilege, and not just for some people. Well, unfortunately, the situation has not been the case in recent years as a result of government policy. I've told you several times, let's look at it, just listing it like this. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Bunny Ears?]] The problems in the pension system, which could have been addressed in the meantime. One. The pension system has lost its flexibility, there is no possibility in Hungarian for anyone to retire before age. Secondly, low pensions have not been caught up in several years, even though opposition parties have always demanded this. Furthermore, they could not stop the polarisation of pensions and switched to inflation-following pension raising techniques, coupled with year-on-year inflation, and after 2017, I believe, consistently followed by underplanned inflation. Well, this set of problems is all that we have to face in the future. I think the next government has no choice but to go through this list of errors. The biggest problem I see now is the inflation-following pension raising technique, as it is enough to go to a shopping hall or to look at the evolution of prices on a market. The government has set a 3-percent inflation-following pension increase in the budget, even though everyone knew that there would be significantly higher price increases, inflation, and even the central bank planned a significantly higher inflation rate than was adopted. What I see is they're twisting the law's options. As a result, while the pensioners received a 0.6 percent adjustment on 1 July, and most likely, as we see price developments in the second half of the year, there may be some sort of adjustment even in November, but this is not enough. It's just a patch, because for years, when you buy a year's worth, pensioners actually lend to the government for months. Look, in the region of South Heves, where I live, pensioners live from 70 to 80 thousand forints. If you're going to use this 0.6 per cent of the adjusted pension increase in July, then it's enough for 25-30 ounces of kissing salsa. The other problem is the rate of break-off from wages. After 2010, as I mentioned, when they moved to the inflation-following pension increase, I would just add two figures here, more precisely, to the average rates compared to the average net wages, I would say, of course, in proportion to GDP, and then I would mention this later, so that is about 74 percent of net wages compared to the average of pensions, now it is only 54 percent. If we look at the GDP-related payments, we have spent around 11.2 percent of our pension payments in 2010 and this has now shrunk to 8.3 percent. In Hungarian, pensioners have received little from the expansion of the economy in the last 10-11 years, and this can be seen in other statistical indicators. Over the last ten years, the poverty rate of pensioners has tripled. In 2010, there was 4.9 percent of pensioners who lived in poverty, and by 2020, I will say 2019 figures, this has increased to 14.8 percent. Well, if, in contrast to the technique of the inflation-following pension increase, the Swiss indexation, which was also demanded by several parliamentary parties and factions, had the pension increase been made, then the average pension should now be 185 thousand forints compared to the 150,000 forints average pension. I would like to stress that, of course, almost two thirds of pensioners do not get the average. You understand, don't you, fellow Members? About 35,000 forints/month, which will shorten the government's pensioners. That's 420,000 forints a year. Now, of course, there will be a pension premium, which was introduced by us at the time, but no one can see the cover of it at all. The budget is set at HUF 53.4 billion, but that would require 146 billion more. I hope you don't want to finance this on credit. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-04-14	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond. Here.
u2021-10-04-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The left always cheated the pensioners. He made promises before the election, then after the election he only took me away from Hungarian pensioners, the Hungarian elderly. So it was, let's say, 15 years ago: when they knew before the election that there would be cuts, they had already been through dozens of overhead increases, they told old people that a safe era would come, and then they took away their 13th month pension. Here you were part of the government that took away the 13th month pension of the people, the elderly, here in Parliament, honourable Member. And you said in person that, of course, every elderly person should have respect and security, just when you were the Secretary of State responsible for this, then you said that not all people should, after you have grown old, automatically go to a nursing home, if you need it, and the rest, and the rest. There was a different kind of string, Your Honour. But your home experts also had a different opinion on this, as Zsuzsa Ferge said that Hungary was the only crisis in 2008, which did nothing, nothing at all, not a single match, in order for something to happen to the obvious losers of the crisis. In Hungarian, when you were on the government, even according to your own expert, Zsuzsa Ferge, for the elderly, who were obviously more exposed in a crisis, you did nothing for them, honourable Member. On the other hand, we have sought to ensure the safety of pensions. With your method of calculating pensions, you would have taken tens of thousands of forints out of the pockets of pensioners for most of the past years, which you have proposed, honourable Member. However, we have preserved the value of pensions, pensions have increased by more than 44 percent, if you look at them numerically, and if you look at their value, this means an increase of about 10 percent. Why? Because we've created a pension system where pensioners can't walk badly. Whether inflation is higher than planned or lower, pensioners can only benefit, because if inflation is higher, we will compensate for the money that the forint has deteriorated more than we expected at the beginning of the year, and if inflation is lower, a few of these years, then you have attacked why the government is expecting too high inflation. We can remember that in the same Parliament at that time, the same people said that the government's intention was to plan inflation directly so that it would have a greater freedom of action afterwards. Well, when there is a reverse situation, which you are criticizing as you are criticizing, then the pensioners will win that difference and it will be incorporated into their pensions; that is where the 10 percent increase is, honourable Member. As regards your false figures, the poverty rates of pensioners and people over 65 who live in severe material deprivation have decreased from 16.2 percent to 6.2 percent. This is the reality, Mr honourable Member, according to Eurostat, and according to the HCSO. You quoted a number that was very deceptively saying that pensioners' poverty had tripled. However, this is not a poverty indicator, but a comparative number, which shows entirely precisely that the proportion of people with less income than 60% of the median equivalent income, which is difficult to understand, but more understandable if we say that as pensions rise, wages increase alongside it, and you just said that wages have increased even more in addition to rising pensions. [[11.40]] Why? Because we've raised the minimum wage record high, which has increased all the other wages. Because we reduced employee taxes from 36 per cent to 15 per cent, because we reduced employers' taxes, from more than 33 per cent to 15 per cent, and so the salaries started to climb up. Thank God, because the pensioners of the future are going to get a bigger pension. But what you are attacking, honourable Member, is that there is a higher minimum wage increase, that there is a high wage rise, and that the pensioners of the future will receive an even greater pension, while, by the way, normal pensions will rise, unlike you. Because you have been the only government since the change of regime, in fact, we may not find another Hungarian government throughout Hungarian history; perhaps the Communists did so at the beginning of their power, but others did not very much take me away from people's pensions. The security of our old age, since there's a social security system, is based on pension predictability. And this basic security was only and exclusively done by the post-communists outside the communist system, that they were shaken in Hungary; that there were hundreds of billions of dollars in the pension fund, and that you were the only ones who took me away from the retirement and benefit of the elderly people. Honourable Congressman, That is why it is discredited when you stand up here and say anything about the elderly, honourable Member. Because no one else in the pension system has a fundamental confidence that my pension is predictable and there can be no less, just more, only you and only you have broken it, so pensioners are not just 15 times the cost of the pension. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But from you in every way, I think you can only be afraid. For them, security is only the Fidesz government, so that what happened 15 years ago doesn't happen again. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-04-16	Dear Parliament, Congressman Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, vice-president of the National Assembly, is coming to a conclusion:, We must break down the one-party overpower of Fidesz! It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Where is Peter James? Where's the president?]] First of all, I would like to thank the thousands and thousands of Hungarian citizens who have performed this very difficult and historic task for their participation in the primary elections. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why doesn't Peter James thank you?]] We don't have a full state apparatus like Fidesz. We, the six cooperating opposition parties, have been able to do this with our very difficult budget and a lot of free work. There is a great deal of gratitude to all Hungarian citizens who care about balanced civil democracy. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why doesn't Peter James thank you?]] It is an interesting development that, after winning the pre-election in the Sopron region by 72 percent, we were probably prepped at night for the winners of the 106 pre-elections, the equatorics that we are the candidate for the left. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] This is a rather interesting problem, let's say, in my case, who, as a citizen of Sopron poncichter, was civil and conservative when your Prime Minister studied in Oxford with a Soros Scholarship in 90 as an extreme liberal politician, so that I would not talk about the very deep Christian faith of József Szápron, too, did I not. And in that regard, there is no limit to your insolence and propaganda, I see. Thank God, the more... and during the entire campaign, I've talked to a lot of citizens from Sopron and the neighborhood, this lie, thank God, not many people believe you anymore. Jobbik, the only right-wing, Christian-social political party of the opposition, took part in this pre-election because we had an extraordinary historical situation where together we had to break down the one-party overpower of Fidesz. Moreover, we believe in decent, balanced civil democracy. The founding fathers of the European Union were Konrad Adenauer, De Gasperi, Schuman, the same Christian-social politicians, and they also wanted a social market economy and civil democracy based on prosperity and freedom for our country. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You burned the EU flag! You burned an EU flag!]] And on the other hand, your one-party overpower will lead our country out of the European Union and indebte our country to Eastern, one-party autocratic systems. The biggest sacrifice was the EPP Jobbik, because in this pre-election, especially in smaller settlements, your Döbörgyi, your mayors and representatives from the mayor's offices observed who was going to vote there. There is nothing more despicable in this world than the fact that the vulnerable Hungarian citizens are being watched as Vávos! So, basically, despite your intimidation, a lot of people went to vote. [[Dr. Zoltán Balczó and Dr. Bence Rétvári intervene several times.]] But the fact is, unfortunately, the urns didn't get to smaller settlements very often, so much of Jobbik's voters couldn't cast their votes now. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Will Gyurcsány be here?]] But the good news is they're gonna vote for opposition cooperation in April. And that's how 29 out of 106 were able to win 29 individual victories. [[Dr. Pál Völner: With DK.]] So the centre-right Jobbik will be one of the largest factions in the next Parliament, which can be said for sure, and I think that is right. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Embarrassing!]] After all, with the cooperation of the six opposition parties, we will have the role of standing up in our national unity government to represent, in practice, balanced national minimums in this national unity government that we have already been able to lay down in our joint government programme, at least in the main lines, about ten months ago. This will soon become known to the wider public in the region of November-de-cember. After the establishment of the ministerial structure of our national unity government, I would like to point out that we believe that there must be a separate portfolio of education, a separate portfolio of education and health, and so on, and then, of course, we intend to participate in that national unity government. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: First you have to win an election!]] after winning the elections to meet Jobbik's profile and social policy goals. I think that our historic goal is to break down the one-party overpower of Fidesz by showing that this does not mean that it is a right-wing and left-wing party fight, but that, on one side, a national unity government covering the entire political spectrum with the cooperating opposition parties will be created that will send you where you belong: to the trash heap of history. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-10-04-18	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, reflects. Here.
u2021-10-04-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't know how to start with a question, but I'll do it anyway. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Since I can't answer, I can't.]] Where is Peter James? [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Where is he? Interviews from Jobbik, including Dr. Brenner Koloman: Where is Viktor Orbán?]] Where is Peter James? [[Interjection on the pro-government side: Where is Hadházy?]] For they were right, who said that Peter James would not have the courage to try to explain the events of the past days in Parliament, and that those who said that others would have to carry out this task would be right. I don't envy you for this job, by the way. Don't get me wrong, we'll be fine without the right explanations, but there may be some better voters who'd like an honest explanation. We do not know how far to get from the results of events called the primary, but if it is possible, we can say that Peter James became fourth; he was exiled to fourth place. Even though the more aggressive adjectives, the more advanced provocations, the President of Jobbik, became fourth. He tells us all about the reception of his politics, that he did not win in his narrower country, Miskolc, which is not the first time in any other constituency; he did not have to support the Gyurcsány party in Miskolc. The President of Jobbik continues to refer to the people, the workers, as representing them. The results show that the people you refer to thank you, but they don't want it, not even on the left. In a previous interview, your party president also spoke about the need to address the people in the countryside; otherwise he classified them. Well, that didn't work either. As far as your findings are concerned, because you referred to it: we cannot overlook two fundamental circumstances. One is that, while you claim that some graphic designer had to claim that you were supported by the left, this was obvious to everyone without any graphics. I have in front of me the results of the 4th constituency of Győr-Moson-Sopron County. The supporters of Brenner Koloman: LMP, Momentum, Democratic Coalition, so DK. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Oops!]] Why are you trying to deny that, Congressman? [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes. Intercoms on the pro-government side, among them: Proudly. Left-wing advantage.]] Under these circumstances, it is not surprising that you received 3,200 votes in the left-wing primary, with an additional 10,000 votes in 2018. Yeah, that was only enough for 18 percent, so they don't want you and the left in Sopron, either. [[11.50]] Now we can ask the question that after all this... I'm going to put it in a different way. So what good was all this, all the things that Peter James presented in recent months? Don't think for a minute that chance has been taking care of things. The task of Peter James was to take a national party to the left and lay it at the foot of the post-communists in exchange for a few listing places. And he did! He did, and after he did, they no longer need James Peter. That's why they gave him fourth place. You can get into trouble in Parliament, go on bodyguard trips, or you can take pictures of food. [[Péter Ungár: You do it too!]] But that's pretty much what you're gonna do. They made sure that membership didn't have a say in what Jobbik's future looked like. You are now a party organization, so, if I recall correctly, you may have used that term, while you know very well that James Peter has embedded himself in the chair in a legal sense. And those of you who used to draw your attention to this and his attention have been removed from the party since then. So what happened was that they scorched up, emptied out a national party. The previous president said that he had taken the soul of Jobbik, and that his current president had made sure that it never happened. Now that we know the cost of this with the fourth place, let me ask you and the people around you: was it worth it? Was it worth it, Your Honour? Either way, those who continue to count on the independence of the country, the representation of national interests, the support of families, the security of the country, the support of domestic businesses, so to sum it up, the strengthening of Hungary, the government and the government parties can still and will continue to count on it. Let me ask you one more question. As someone who, if I recall correctly, was a history teacher, help me to see how the strangulation, the marching with bodyguards, the burning of the EU flag, or the roof slide is related to the Christian democracy that you have just mentioned. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-10-04-20	Dear Parliament, KDNP's representative, Mr András Aradszki, may now speak:. The role of the elderly in the Hungarian society. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, On Friday, October 1st, we celebrated the 21st World Older Day, courtesy of the United Nations. Today, some 2.2 million pensioners and elderly countrymen live in Hungary. This is when we thank them for their life's work, for building and maintaining this country for us, for taking on and raising us, and for that, we are all grateful. The World Day commemoration is particularly suitable for trying to determine exactly what the role of older people in today's Hungarian society is. To sum up in one sentence, we consider them to be the beginning of our future and the donors of our national heritage. Their role is essential and decisive. For us, they are not a useless community, a burden for society, but a created man, or by human dignity they are carriers of understanding, acceptance, appreciation, and love. Dear House, In January this year, Pope Francis announced the World Grandparent and Elderly Day. On 26 July, in connection with the celebration of the parents of the Virgin Mary, he said: "Today we need a new alliance between the young and the elderly, we need to share the common treasure of life, we need to dream together, but we need to overcome the conflicts between generations in order to prepare the future for everyone. They are the precious pieces of bread that remain on the table of our lives and that can still feed us with a scent that we have lost: the smell of mercy and memory. So far, the quote. Dear House, Let us not lose the memory of which the elderly are carriers, for we are children of this history, and without roots we will perish. Mr President, Dear House, When the Holy Father was in our country during the Eucharistic Congress, he agreed with our measures to protect children and families. I think and hope that the domestic framework for supporting older people is a sure, stronger basis for the future association of young people and older people. Because it is a fact that since the victory of the Fidesz-KDNP Party Association in 2010, the support of the elderly has been expanding in the face of previous left-wing withdrawal and austerity. In Hungary, we are guaranteed by law to maintain the purchasing value of pensions and ensure an inflation-following pension increase. Therefore, pensions increased by 44,7 percent compared to 2010 and their purchasing value increased by 10 percent. We reduced the rent, which leaves tens of thousands of forints on pensioners today. Grandparents are on the move, and besides retirement, the elderly who are working only have to pay 15% of personal income tax on their income. Thanks to economic growth, we have been able to pay a pension premium for years, and so will this year. The pension premium has not been paid once during the left-wing governments. Despite the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, we did not abandon the elderly, as opposed to the left during the financial crisis, who took significant amounts from pensioners. One of the important steps of re-launching the economy is to rebuild the 13th month pension taken by the left. Dear House, The measures listed show that the elderly can only count on us. Over the past ten years, we have considered it a priority to ensure the conditions for living old age in the long term, because our job, quoting Pope Francis, is not to forget them, to conspire with them, to learn to stand down and acknowledge them, to listen to them, to never throw them away. Keep them in love and learn to share time with them, we will come out of it better. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-10-04-22	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Mr. Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, reflects. Here.
u2021-10-04-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you, Mr President, for bringing up this important issue here in Parliament, because it is the priority of every society to respect, respect and guarantee the safety of the elderly. This means not only protecting pensioners' pensions for us, but also a complex service system designed to guarantee the respect and security of our elderly countrymen. October 1st is the World Older Day, and we celebrate our parents, grandparents and great-grandparents. We thank them for helping our daily lives with their experience and advice. We thank them for the work that has been done over the past decades, with which they have built this country, because what we have, what surrounds us, we have received from them, by increasing, protecting these values and passing them on to our children and grandchildren. Dear House, It is not true that we support pensioners. They were just the ones who provided us, since they raised us, educated us, and helped us to move on in life. We have good news for pensioners: thanks to the successful relaunch of the Hungarian economy, we can pay a record-size pension premium this year. The pension premium was 12 thousand forints in 2017, 18 thousand forints in 2018 and 22 thousand forints in 2019 due to a gradual increase in the performance of the economy. This year, the pension premium will be equal to 80,000 forints. There would have been 435 thousand people who, according to the pension law, would have received less, but according to the performance of the Hungarian economy and the government's decision, we could pay everyone 80,000 forints. A new correction and a pension correction will also be made in November. Since 2010, we have tried to appreciate our elderly countrymen by all means. As is known, the purchasing value of pensions, as Mr President said, is guaranteed by law today and has increased by more than 10 percent since 2010. In addition, pensioners have received an extra payment of HUF 220 billion over four years in addition to the pension premium in the form of a voucher and a certificate. The elderly received an Erzsébet voucher in 2016, 17 and 18 respectively, and in September 2019 all pensioners received a refund of HUF 9,000. [[12.00]] By the end of July, the number of women who received a 40, discounted pension, introduced in 2011, exceeded 314 thousand. In addition to what has already been said, as you said, Mr President, the repeated reduction in the amount of money could also save our elderly countrymen a considerable amount of money, and we are also more rigorously punishing the crimes committed to the harm of the elderly. Dear House, It is worth recalling that this has not always been the case. Earlier, before 2010, the Socialists wanted to introduce a pension tax, and if Fidesz hadn't prevented it, it would have taken effect. They have tripled the price of gas and doubled the price of electricity, and they have completely delivered people, including the elderly, to foreign utility companies. Visits and hospital allowances were introduced, and, as we have repeatedly said, yes, they took away the 13th month's pension from the elderly. We're gonna rebuild the 13th month's pension. In February this year, we gave a week's pension allowance to pensioners and pension recipients as an additional benefit. This amounted to approximately 2.1 million pensioners and to another 400 thousand pensioners. In February, they received the first weekly instalment of the 13th month pension, and we are working to rebuild the 13th month pension faster, so that pensioners can receive the third and possibly the fourth week surplus next year. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Older people can be sure that we will not let our collective achievements be taken by the left again. We will protect pensioners, and we will also protect pensions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-24	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman of Fidesz, Mónika Dunai, applied for a pre-meeting address with the title of our current affairs. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, the LIBE Committee of the European Parliament visited Budapest to put pressure on Hungary and campaign alongside the left. The left-wing majority of the European Parliament is alarmed by Hungary's refusal to allow LGBTQ propaganda into kindergartens and schools and refusing to install migrants. The attacks on Hungary have been on fire since the Parliament adopted the Child Protection Act package in June. The representatives of the Hungarian Left join these attacks every time in the European Parliament and here in Parliament, and often lead them directly. The position of Fidesz on these issues is clear, clear and unchanged from the outset: children must be protected from aggressive LGBTQ propaganda, and child sexual education is solely the right of their parents. We rely on the support of the Hungarian people. At the national consultation, 97 percent of respondents agreed that it was right to regulate the law and restrict sexual propaganda for children. In a few months' time, people in Europe, in a unique way, will be able to say what they think about this in a referendum. Ladies and gentlemen, After the end of the LIBE visit, the French and Spanish members of the delegation said that it would be high time to end the witch hunt against Hungary. They explained that the left is using the EU institutional framework to launch attacks on the democratically elected Hungarian government over and over again. According to MEPs, although they met many people, about three quarters of whom were left-wing, they could not give any concrete examples of how the rule of law was violated in Hungary. Despite all these facts, there is no question of what will be in the report of the LIBE delegation. This is completely independent of what they have experienced in Hungary. The Soros network and the left have already written the verdict in advance. The delegation was full of pro-immigration and LGBTQ activists, and before the visit, the head of the delegation asked for the suspension of our country's EU voting rights because of the Child Protection Act, and there was also a member of the team whose party was recently a Communist party. The name of the same Member is on the list leaked a few years ago, which lists the trusted European Parliament's allies of the Soros network, and the NGOs with which the delegation has met have received at least HUF 250 million from Soros in recent years. That is the scenario, therefore, my fellow Members. The Soros organisations are flooding the international public with disparaging reports on Hungary, which are then referred to by the pro-Soros representatives as facts. It is also interesting, ladies and gentlemen, that the whole visit was based on the lying Sargentini report, which was adopted by the majority of the European Parliament's pro-immigration group after Hungary refused to introduce migrants. In particular, it is shameful that, ignoring the most fundamental ethical rules of conflict of interest, a member of the delegation was also a Hungarian MEP, who apparently has the only important task in the European Parliament to scorn and attack his own country. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is quite obvious that the rule of law is an excuse. In fact, left-wing representatives came to Hungary to support the election campaign of the Hungarian people of Brussels, Ferenc Gyurcsány. However, we continue to stand by our position, say no to LGBTQ propaganda and say no to the resettlement of migrants. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-26	Thank you very much. Mr. Völner, some of the Secretarys of State are giving me a heads-up. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, If you think about what comparisons are made in different areas after the decade after 2000, i.e. after the period led by the Balliberal Government and after 2010, we can understand the operation of the LIBE Committee. Because what happened after 2002? Despite all promises, the price of gas was practically tripled, twice the price of electricity when the entire sector was in foreign hands. They raised the central bank's core interest rate by still standing at 7 percent after 2010. Foreign currency lending has been introduced, and practically Hungary has always given in to Brussels' pressure and everything. And what happened after 2010? We introduced the special taxes on multinational companies, introduced the reduction of the overhead, resisted migration; and the latest impact surface, the LGBTQ organisations, is the type of operation that wants to limit the basic right of parents to determine when and what knowledge they provide in raising children. And another interesting comparison: 2006. 23 October 2006 and the events before that, when the Balliberal Government practically conducted the Hungarian police against its own people, when hundreds of people were illegally thrown into prison, arrested, beaten, sustained injuries caused by tear gas, swordswording, rubber bullets, and then the wise West, Brussels, was silent, there was no LIBE committee, there was no organization here that made it possible. For example, before 2010, the Soros organisations in the courts taught judges how to judge on different issues, what decisions to make. These organisations have been expelled from the courts for the sake of independence of the court, and have been expelled by the court itself, which is one of the serious violations of Brussels today in the field of civil rights. And when we get to this particular case, I will ask what EU document or where it is written that the LIBE Committee has any powers in Hungary. The balliberal press makes it look like there's some sort of control organization here, and the bad students are sitting on the bench, and they've determined to type in the secunda. No! There is no document giving such powers to the LIBE Committee. They were welcomed out of courtesy by representatives of ministries and judicial organizations. [[12.10]] Technically, as the congresswoman mentioned, this shows that the committee is a political organisation, as there are, to say, opposition members, so to speak, as well as right-wing representatives, who have written down that they have asked the questions: say one particular matter that would have been a violation of the rule of law in Hungary, but they could not say; neither the Helsinki Committee, or I do not know what number of organisations they have visited, has not mentioned such a case. I ask you, without a case, how do you make claims, how do you attack? And we can see that it is possible to write the judgments in advance, to make decisions, to stand up to the head of this committee, to state what findings they have come to without consulting the members of the delegation who are here again, without having a majority opinion where everyone could have expressed their views. I ask you that the LIBE Committee can then be considered a democratic organisation when it does not form its own opinion together, but rather a delegation leader tells us his own opinion or what he came here with, and does not allow himself to be dissuaded. Anna Donáth, whose name was mentioned, is a special curiosity, because remember, when we practically had to introduce in Hungary, because of the epidemic situation, the kind of regulation that allowed us to react quickly, in a momentous leaked online conversation, she admitted that the government only did what a democratically elected government had to do to protect the health of Hungarian people and to protect jobs. But they're lying out. If we look around, we can see that the children of Ferenc Gyurcsány, the whole left-wing so-called opposition cooperation: he is the father of the lie, and they are the bearers of Gyurcsány's lies, the children of the lie. Unfortunately, these are the times we live in, unfortunately foreign allies are also called. We hope that everyone will calm down after the spring elections, and then they will return to the way they should work within a democratic organisation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-28	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr László Földi to present the speakers who are not on the agenda. Mr. Messenger!
u2021-10-04-29	Dear Parliament, Bence Rétvári, KDNP; Dóra Dúró, independent; Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz; Tünde Szabó, Fidesz; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Csaba Nagy, Fidesz; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Anita Potocskané Kőrösi, Jobbik; László Varju, DK; László Hajdu, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik.
u2021-10-04-30	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12:12 p.m., we'll start questioning. First of all, Congresswoman Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, may say that the World Hunting Exhibition is yes, but not prom? ! ? It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Tens of thousands of students are excited about one of the most important events of the year, the prom dance and the prom dance. In most places, the time at which they wanted to hold this event was fixed, but then the black soup came: you extended the emergency until 1 January last week, maintaining the restrictive measures that apply to community events, including the prom. I got the question from upset parents that, but, Congresswoman, if you can roam around a world hunting exhibition without any restrictions, then what an epidemic situation, what a huge emergency occurs in sports halls where students perform the prom waltz before their parents and grandparents and pin the ribbon that is one of the signs of their growing up and entering adulthood. I therefore respectfully ask the Secretary of State that, once the world exhibition can be exempted from these restrictive measures, how can these prom celebrations have not been exempted so far? At the Perczel Mór High School in Siófok, the meeting will now begin, where they will decide what to do with the prom, because the outrage of the parents has come to the point of saying that either everyone can come, or then there will be no prom. You've already taken a year and a half from these students, missed a lot of community programs. Don't do that. They're gonna take the prom and the ribbons away from them. If you did that at the hunting fair, please do the same for the proms. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-04-32	Thank you very much. Secretary of State of Rétvár, please.
u2021-10-04-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, We all know that the most important defense against an epidemic is vaccination. That is why it was important for the government to be able to immunise as quickly as possible with as many vaccines as possible, and that is why it was important for the government that, when the possibility was opened, we even started vaccinations for people under 18 years of age, and even in the European Union, we were the first to ensure the possibility of taking a third vaccine. If you look at how we have seen Hungarian defence at international level for the first time this summer, but since then it has been updated, most recently on 31 August, in the Nikkei index, which concerns the defence of individual countries, Hungary is in second place. This position is mainly due to good disease management and vaccination. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think the most important thing is to encourage everyone to get vaccinated, even in 18 years. On the part of teachers there is already very, very high grafting rate, in this age group there is about 50 percent of the graft rate that is affected by young people here. Our aim would be to protect them at every moment, every morning, every noon and every night, and therefore not to submit anti-vaccination decisions to Parliament, but to provide assistance. But what did you say in both opening and closing, I see you're both a professional colleague of Ágnes Kunhalmi's? He said that when they on the left were talking about opening, they weren't actually pushing for opening. You are also talking about how we should open and close, and we should also have more security and restrictions, but we should also have greater freedom. Your party president in February [[Anita Kőrösi: Pathetic, really!]] At the beginning of the third wave, he said it had to be opened, or we'd be closed for good. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and All decisions in this area must be taken with consideration. The vaccine is the most important thing. The government and the operational tribe are constantly watching what measures are needed and what measures are not needed to ensure that everyone is safest in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi: He didn't even say the word "tapewarming"! Congratulations.]]
u2021-10-04-34	Congressman Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP will be following: When can epileptics suffering from severe diseases get tax benefits? It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, People with disabilities should enjoy increased support from the Hungarian State. One of the manifestations of this is the personal income tax allowance under which the Act grants tax relief to persons suffering from a disease defined in a separate government decree up to one third of the minimum wage. Unfortunately, along with many other diseases, epilepsy is not included, although it affects nearly 150,000 people, 150,000 families. A citizen from Szeged drew attention to the lack of regulation. Nearly two and a half years ago, he sought out the competent ministry, the EMMI, to review the regulation, otherwise the EMMI did not shut it down, and then wrote a letter to Máté Kocsis, János Lázár, who otherwise provided personal support to the citizen of Szeged. The position and conviction of the MSZP in this matter is that a significant number of people suffering from epilepsy and the symptoms of the disease are often very severe, and the financial implications of medication really justify the inclusion of the disease itself, epilepsy, in this well-known government decree. Therefore, for my part, I have submitted to Parliament a proposal for a parliamentary decision to include the disease in the government decree, its annex, and the tax relief itself should be able to go back to those concerned from 1 January 2021. For all these reasons, I ask the Secretary of State when the serious disability disease which gives rise to the tax relief of epilepsy will be included in the said regulation, and when the regulation will be reviewed in order to allow the institution of the tax relief to cover other similar serious diseases with disabilities. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-10-04-36	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári, please.
u2021-10-04-37	I think we agree that it is very important for those who have a serious illness, for the person or for the family, to have a lot of extra tasks for everyone and a lot of difficulties in everyday life, in planning everyday life. What is routine for all of us, uprising, dressing up, going to school, starting work, shopping or working in a loud or crowded environment is obviously difficult for many of us and for others, so it is important that we try to help in as many ways as possible. [[12.20]] The current regulation lists the damage to the central nervous system to a degree that causes at least 50 percent loss of function on a limb in order to benefit from a tax reduction on the consolidated tax base, which means that patients with at least 50 percent loss of function in epilepsy are entitled to tax relief. So the legislator has considered this situation in the past, what you said, and for them, who have such a consequence of this underlying disease, it gives this kind of surplus, precisely to help people who have really had the consequences of this disease that limit everyday life, the function of one limb, to 50 per cent. Honourable Congressman, To make proposals for decisions when you could have recorded this in a government decision a long time ago, a bit of such a hypocritical attitude, which was then voted down, is now being submitted by you. They could have done it, they had three government cycles to do it, they didn't do it in any of them. We will continue to help this group of stakeholders with tax incentives. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-38	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anett Bősz, a representative of DK, will be following:. Where is the road network development promised three years ago? It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The collective memory of Érd is vividly guarding the press conference in March 2018, where, within five years, in addition to the budget of the programme, he promised a solid road cover for all the roads of Érd and its region, Lajos Kósa and the regional parliamentary representative, András Aradszki, who was campaigning for the re-election of the region. True, we were only two weeks away from the election, but the promise seemed believable because, as far as I know, there is no other county-righted city where three quarters of the roads would be bare. Unfortunately, it turned out that the skeptics were right: the promise is that the project should be completed within a year and a half, but not only in the budgets of the last three years, but also in the budget for next year. It seems that the government has resigned from the constituency of Ordnance, and it doesn't even seem to keep its promise. But I see that our fellow Member, András Aradszki, has also given up on him, who, after I myself, submitted a budget amendment in order to allow this programme to begin, and I asked him that, after sweeping down my proposal, he might also try, because I saw that the pro-government colleagues would pass his proposal... As far as I'm concerned, the poor fellow government representative hasn't been able to make any promises. The money of the heiress in Bell would have filled that 60 billion forints, and it turned out that the rosary couldn't replace this budget, which would have been enough. This press conference was not only memorable because it didn't turn out to be anything after that, but the democrats who later won the local elections were waiting for the minister and the representative to flee. He would have taken it more precisely, because on the service road he managed to paddle the road, while symbolizing well the dog comedy that takes place in Érden and its region with the development of the road network. I respectfully ask you whether the Dobrev government will be left with the development of the road network. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2021-10-04-40	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda will answer. Here.
u2021-10-04-41	Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We are all well aware that the national civilian government was the best ally of the settlements, this government that saved the Hungarian governments from the debt trap to which Ferenc Gyurcsány led them. And now you want to help this Ferenc Gyurcsány back into power. Forints 1,400 billion had to be taken over from Hungarian municipalities, the Hungarian municipalities, because the left-wing government took out so much money from the municipal system, and their farming was unsustainable. We protect the municipalities, and this is well demonstrated by the fact that if we compare the budget years 2020 and 21, then there will be 17 percent more for the municipalities this year. Everyone is also well aware that the country is building and beautiful, including with the help of the Hungarian village programme, and with the help of the Modern Cities programme. It would certainly be the same for Érd if you and your husband could put aside their own petty political interests and really cared about the Érdians. It is not the government that should be accountable, Madam honourable Member, for road development, but for the mayor of Érd, your husband, László Tüszik. And you know it very well and very well. [[Anett keeps interrupting.]] For the resources for road construction are the condition that the road development concept, which had already been prepared by the previous city administration, be completed with detailed plans. It is not the task of the government, but the task of the municipality; only your husband sabotage us, despite the fact that we know that this proposal was prepared in the previous term, which would have been the basis for this development. The decision on this matter is also still valid today. Your husband is responsible! Your husband personally stopped these cases and these developments. Shame on you. Shame on your husband. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-42	Congressman Péter Ungár, the representative of the LMP is following:. Who bears the burden? Here you go.
u2021-10-04-43	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, In Hungary, people who do caring work are not appreciated. The situation is this: there are a lot of Hungarian women, especially between the ages of 50 and 60, who have the same burden of caring for their parents who often live in dementia or their spouse's parents, the burden is that they also do the caring work in the household and help their young adult children. There are over 100,000 of these people, and we've forgotten them over the past ten years. Moreover, these people, for whom caring work is not paid, are not reported in the economic system, as many times more than a hundred thousand people are informally involved in caring work, so they work informally in a household doing caring work. And a lot of people do it abroad, in Austria, many of them commuting to Germany. All in all, I have three questions about this problem. One is when the home care fee will be raised to the minimum wage level for non-child care providers. The second is to talk to the Austrian and German governments about giving the caring people the local minimum wage in every case. The third is that, overall, they realize that their ideological, fundamentalist right-wing position that elderly care is the responsibility of the family cannot be held alongside the Hungarian demographic indicators, this does not coincide with the reality of the Hungarian people; and when they acknowledge that it is not the church, but the Hungarian state's basic responsibility to hold budgetary resources for elderly care, because neither the church nor the families will be able to provide it with such indicators on their own initiative. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-04-44	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár.
u2021-10-04-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It always surprises people when they talk about the fact that any social activity or social work should be better recognised, from benches a few years ago, when those benches were governed in Hungary [[Peter Ungár: When am I?]] A month's wages were taken from all social workers when they talked about the need to have greater respect for social work, while they reduced their financial prestige. Especially with regard to the care fee, it is odd, because when they no longer governed, but sat in left-wing opposition benches, they did not vote for it when we decided here in Parliament to introduce the child care fee and increase the care fee. First, we raised the care fee by 15 percent and then by 5-5 percent in subsequent years. You did not vote for this, which is why what was adopted during the last socialist government is HUF 15 billion for home care, home care, and now it is 67 billion forints in the budget adopted for the future. [[12.30]] 67 billion forints instead of 15 billion, honourable Member. This represents an increase of nearly four and a half times over 10 to 12 years. What does the person with whom you have an alliance with say that? [[Peter Ungár: Who?]] He says that Lajos Korózs doesn't have to figure out who he is, and today we've already quoted that not all people need to go to a nursing home after he's grown old. He said that when he was on the government, there was no need to increase the capacity at home. Now you're in the opposition, honourable Member, I'll give you that, because you've always said that there hasn't been an increase in the capacity of the elderly at home. [[Péter Ungár: They did not grow!]] But for about forty-eightth time, I wrote to you in a written reply that they had grown, and I showed how much they had grown. [[Péter Ungár: But the ecclesiasticals grew only, the state did not grow!]] Therefore, at least today it does not say that the capacity of nursing homes has not increased by thousands. You now acknowledge that capacity has increased, so the scope of care has expanded, honourable Member, but this is not because of you, but thanks to the Fidesz-KDNP government. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-04-46	Dear Parliament, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, will be following:, How is the government preparing itself to deal with electoral fraud? It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is the responsibility of the government at all times to ensure that the elections are clean and fraud-free. However, this is not the case in Hungary, the elections are not clear, and I am not talking about the fidesz billboards, I am not talking about the invasion of public service television and radio, I am talking about fictitious address announcements. Here's the recipe. In border settlements, especially near the Ukrainian border, hundreds of people will be announced at one address. There were houses that lacked half their sides, hundreds of people reported there. At best, these crooks are convicted of forgery, punished for a few hundred thousand forints, but these crooks vote unauthorized, which is a felony. And they're not asked to count, so the result is based on cheating votes. This was also the case in Szabolcs' 4th constituency, where there were 40,000 more voters by 2018 compared to 2014, and the number of voters voting for the Fidesz MEPs rose by a similar number of surprises. The most eloquent example is Kispalad, where the mayor was convicted of forgery of authentic documents, but at present his son holds the same post, who said to the Hungarian nation that 28-30 people are announced at their address, who vote in the municipal and parliamentary elections. I could give you a list of examples. Then, in the rejoinder, be kind, Mr Secretary, let us leave the presentation of the legislation, and I am aware of it. Answer the question of what you have done since 2018 to stop these frauds! What are you planning to do to ensure that this does not happen in the. 22nd election? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-10-04-48	Secretary Völner, please.
u2021-10-04-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, I'm sure we won't be delivering empty ballots in BMW. [[Lajos Rig: It's tanks, isn't it?]] In the company of many, many millions of HUF cash, and virtually not in the framework of such an uncontrolled system, votes are aggregated, as we have seen during this show. But I would like to draw your attention, indeed, to the fact that you did not ask for a legislative presentation, despite the fact that the 2013 XXXVI on the electoral procedure was adopted. Act No. 350 on the Law of 2012 on the Criminal Code sets out clearly among its principles the preservation of the cleanliness of elections and the exercise of good faith and proper law, and Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code. §2 of the Act regulates the offence against the order of elections, referendums and the order of the European Citizens' Initiative. On this basis, who violates, among other things, the electoral law, he commits a crime and is punishable by imprisonment of up to three years. I would remind Mr President that last autumn the government amended the electoral laws to avoid abuse, thus guaranteeing the security of elections and voting in a comprehensive regulation. The support for the bill has been cancelled on your part. The left voted in a unanimous vote of no, but at least now everyone can be sure that because you have no intention of doing anything other than repeating empty words in this area. Technically, the authorities acting within the legal framework, as you said in your speech, acted and imposed penalties. And to say that in the electoral procedure any degree of anomaly would have resulted from these sanctioned cases again, I note that they had been punished after being discovered, there was no evidence in this regard that would give rise to criticisms of the electoral system as a whole. Of course, if there is any proposal that can improve this situation, we will be open to it in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-04-50	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sándor Font, representative of Fidesz, would like to address a question to the Minister of Finance:. Continue to support the construction of extremely successful nurserys and kindergartens? It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As our National Creed states: . We trust in the shared future, in the dedication of young generations, we believe that our children and grandchildren will make Hungary great again with their talents, endurance and spiritual strength. In addition, as Article L (2) of the Fundamental Law states, Hungary supports childbearing. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Childbearing must be greatly encouraged by the kindergarten environment we can provide for children who will act there. The aim of kindergarten education is to fully develop the child's personality, while respecting the rights of the child. During player employment, let us shape, develop children's abilities to be open to the world, and make them fit to receive knowledge, taking into account individual and age specifics. Our education system focuses primarily on the development of skills, knowledge of reality and integration into society. On August 30, the Stone Tree kindergarten was handed over in Kiskőrös, which reflects innerness, calmness and harmony. A kindergarten equipped with modern and up-to-date tools and with complex accessibility contributes greatly to the achievement of quality educational and educational work, and to successful personality and community development processes for children. The kindergarten can accommodate about 150 children in six groups, this new kindergarten triggered two kindergarten facilities in the 1970s, which could only be operated at an extremely high cost, and let's say that they have not met the aesthetic needs of today. The kindergarten was partly built from the amount provided by the Hungarian Government, partly from the amount financed by the local government, and from the support of the operational programme for the development of the territory and settlement. Dear Secretary of State, I ask you, further support for the construction of extremely successful nurserys and kindergartens has continued. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-10-04-52	Secretary of State Tallai, please.
u2021-10-04-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Let's see what's behind this good result. The operational programme for territorial and urban development shall contain the source of this. Based on the TOP annual development framework, more than HUF 220 billion is available for kindergarten and kindergarten development this year. 1313 projects were supported in the amount of HUF 216 billion, and 1306 projects already have the grant contract and payment is ongoing. What does that mean? It means that 1643 new cradle seats will be created, and 7112 seats will be developed, from which 1316 kindergarten seats will be created and 32 thousand kindergarten seats will be developed. Yes, this successful program continues. It's very successful, because it's our future, it's our children. In the TOP Plus between 2021 and 27 a significant source is also adopted and defined. Honourable Congressman, The answer to your question is simple: you have to continue the program that the government has started to build nurserys, mini crèches, family crèches, kindergartens, and develop. I encourage the local governments to apply at the TOP Plus, and they will have significant resources to achieve this goal. This tender was launched as soon as possible and in the past on 14 September. I suggest you take a look at this option on the palyazat.gov.hu page. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-04-54	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Farkas, independent, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:, Why hasn't the money earmarked for foreign language learning been used to develop other language education? It's an address. Here. [[12.40]]
u2021-10-04-55	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In 2019 the government announced that Hungarian secondary school students could take part in foreign language learning trips. This programme would have been launched in 2020, for which HUF 90 billion would have been allocated. Unfortunately, however, it is well known that this programme could not be launched as a result of the epidemic situation, so I have already asked you a written question about the alternative way in which the language education of students was used for this specific programme, but has not been used. For me, it was perfectly logical that if there was a framework, it would be if they could not use it in accordance with the original purpose, but still used it for language teaching. We've got a lot of catching up to do here. We should've done that. After all this, it was amazing to read the answer to my question, because it was clear that the government did not spend HUF 90 billion on language education for this specific training. What I didn't find out in the answer. In fact, in the answer, the positive point about language learning was that the Student Loan Plus was introduced in May 2020 and this amount could be used by students to learn languages. So, as a possible solution, the loan was again offered to students, while the money for billions of forints of language education was spent on something completely different. The answer is also absolutely amazing because the HUF 90 billion earmarked for foreign language learning could have been used temporarily for free online language courses, teacher training, support for language learning, and much more that would have really helped students to go up in language learning and gain marketable, useful language skills. However, they did not take advantage of this opportunity, so we lost another precious year, even though the framework would have been there. So I ask why money for foreign language learning has not been spent on other language learning developments until the original goal can be achieved. Why waste new years in language education? I look forward to your substantive response.
u2021-10-04-56	Secretary of State of Rétvár, here you go.
u2021-10-04-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Obviously, you have not missed the fact that over the last two years, the whole of humanity has been fighting a coronal virus epidemic, and this has made it impossible for people to travel to a native language area to learn languages. Obviously, there wouldn't have been any intention, since everyone was afraid for their own life, for their own health. That is why the government also decided that it would be irresponsible to launch a programme of travel abroad in the middle of the epidemic. We've shut down all other programs, limitless! programme and all others have stopped, just as all countries in the world have stopped all similar programmes, honourable Member, either suspended or not launched. That is what we did, and these funds had to be used mainly to control the epidemic, as we tried to use all the other funds to control the epidemic, because as I said before, according to the international evaluation of Nikkei, we were able to provide the second best protection against the corona virus epidemic. In particular, because of the fact that vaccinations have prevented almost all European countries, and there are only a few in the world who would have reached 25 or 50 percent ahead of us, this is why the defence fund was also needed. However, improvements have been made, programmes that can also be implemented in an epidemic situation. A new foreign language learning module was created, the value of which was HUF 3 billion, and school developments were made in order to learn languages, the value of which was more than HUF 8 billion, the Tempus Public Foundation developed the teaching materials, the application platform and the contacts with foreign partners, so it could work. For young people under the age of 35, we have provided the source for a free language exam, which is nearly HUF 2 billion this year, honourable Member. 112,000 people received their language exams, including mothers, fathers, or grandparents. Overall, we have also raised the available framework for each student. I would also like to say that we have also implemented the possible parts of foreign language teaching in online form, and I would also like to point out that we have results because, compared to 25 percent in 2007, the percentage of people with foreign language skills is now above 40 percent. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-04-58	Thank you very much. Before we go any further, on your behalf, I welcome the students of the National University of Public Service; I am pleased that you are here, and I wish you all the best. Congressman Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology: å Why does the Fidesz power abandon the cumulatively disadvantaged region of South Somogy? ? It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The constituencies from which I came could tell a great deal about the so-called blessings given by you almost 12 years ago and the two-thirds of them. One would think that at least the so-called pro-government cities would be valued and felt the benefits of NER, but that is not how it really works. Csurgo, the seat of the pro-government representative of the region, has suffered a terrible 11.5 percent decline in population over the past ten years, so you can imagine that if this is the case here, what is the situation in the other regions of South Somogy? So, you'd think they'd bathe these cities in milk and butter, carry them in their palms, but unemployment is high, poverty is truly amazing, and migration is terrifying. The industrial park of this town is also empty, which is why a lot of people are forced to work far away from their homes: a daughter of my pro-government fellow Member with a few months of internship experience, for example, in Geneva, Switzerland, as a consul. Others, however, are not so fortunate, and they are obliged to work at many hours of commuting distance from their home, such as one of the assembly plants, to support their families. But you left the hundreds of families of Kadarkút's settlement suffering severe storm damage on the side of the road in the summer, so there is no answer to these questions. However, it is clear that, let us say, there is a clear correlation between investment in job creation and the development of infrastructure that provides a normal livelihood. The main transport route of the constituency is the 68 route, which is key to the region of Nagyatád and Barcs. Mr. Secretary, with all due respect, what can you say about this? I expect a valuable answer as to the amount of resources and when the complete renovation of this horrific journey will begin. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-10-04-60	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary Tamás Schanda, here you go.
u2021-10-04-61	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You spoke for the people of Somogy, but let me ask you a question: is it in the interest of the people of Somogy to come back to those who lied to them, who wanted the South Somogyans to pay tuition and visit? The people who destroyed Hungary in the countryside, come back? They canceled jobs and took a month's pension? Is that in the interests of the South Somogyans, in your opinion? The ones who were taxing the families of South Somogy? Is that in your best interest? And you're proud to be working for the Ferenc Gyurcsány now, and you want to bring him back to power, against whom you even acted in 2006? Don't you think that's how a proud Hungarian man became Ferenc Gyurcsány's man? That's you. [[Ander Balázs intervenes.]] Honourable Congressman, Allow me to inform you that Somogy County's economic performance has improved faster than average over the last decade. GDP per capita has almost doubled over the last government cycles, the employment rate has improved from around 50% to over 65% over the last decade, while the number of unemployed has fallen to less than one third. These are real results, honourable Member, and they are not as horse-sung as you speak of. And indeed, as I have told you many times: we are working on the development and expansion of the country's road network, because this is not only an economic interest, but also serves the safe and high-quality transport of Hungarian families. We're still working on it when there's a coronal virus outbreak. That's why the preparatory work for the renovation of Highway 68 started, but obviously you couldn't take care of it because you were on the Gyurcsány show. Public procurement for planning is already under way. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-04-62	Thank you. Congressman Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, is next:. Come home, young or why did Rachel Orbán become a migrant? It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The Prime Minister's dear daughter, the dear daughter of the dear leader and his son-in-law, who is strongly linked to corruption scandals, have left Hungary. [[12.50]] And despite the Eastern opening that, no, they didn't set a course for Azerbaijan, they didn't set a course for Spain. We also know what one of your ideologists said, Mihály Takró told us that the parent who emigrated the child had done something very wrong in raising the child. This means that Viktor Orbán is probably a very bad father, because his daughter not only picked up her tent, but also the family silver and turned her back on his country. However, I would be more interested to know what the reason for leaving is, and I would like to ask the Secretary of State about that. Did it not go well enough for István Tiborcz and Orbán Rachel in Hungary? Wasn't the tourism sector for the first-born girl enough? Wasn't the multibillion-dollar company support enough for István Tiborcz? Minister of State, many Hungarians are interested in the fact that the reason for emigration is not by accident to rescue the stolen property of Orbán Rahels, and sooner or later to flee Spain, they will seek out a country from which Hungary does not have an extradition treaty. Secretary of State, I'd be very interested to hear that you're here, young man. The programme is to convince István Tiborcz and Rachel Orbán to return to their homeland. I look forward to your sincere and respectable response. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-04-64	State Secretary Tamás Schanda is responding. Here.
u2021-10-04-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congressman! This is a frivolous question from a confused congressman. Last time, it was your communist spiritual ancestors who forbade Hungarian people from going abroad. [[Zoltán Varga: Go, just leave the stolen property here!]] Honourable Congressman, We're in Parliament, if I can ask you for a little seriousness and you're a serious person, then it would be worth discussing emigration and return. Allow me to remind you that in the last year of left-wing governance, nearly 150,000 young people were unemployed. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] You have abolished the home creation system, eliminated the interest-supported loans, pushed young people into foreign exchange loans and, moreover, wanted to introduce tuition fees in Hungarian higher education. (Zoltán Varga interrupts.) Honourable Congressman, You know perfectly well, and every Hungarian person should know precisely that the civil national government is counting on Hungarian young people and that young people can count on the Hungarian government. Honourable Congressman, The number of young unemployed has been halved since left-wing governance; it has been halved, honourable Member. We are constantly expanding the support and opportunities to help young people learn, support their families, set up their families, create their homes, learn their languages and find their place. 2019, Honourable Member, it was also a historic round in Hungarian emigration, and for the first time since Hungary's accession to the EU, the international migration balance of Hungarian citizens has been positive, i.e. more people have returned than have emigrated. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Honourable Congressman, In fact, Hungary is neither an immigrant country nor an immigrant country even within the European Union.
u2021-10-04-66	Mr. Secretary.
u2021-10-04-67	When you look at the numbers, it's clear that there are fewer people coming out of us than from the surrounding countries. Thank you for your attention and extra time. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-68	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, How do they protect the elderly in the fourth wave? It's an address. Here.
u2021-10-04-69	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As early as July, Viktor Orbán said that the fourth wave had begun in Western Europe, and Hungary will be a part of it. Since then, it has become clear to everyone that the fourth wave is really taking place, the epidemic is already raging in the surrounding countries, but we are experiencing more and more infections. Today, the most recent number, if I have read it correctly, was 1,500 new infected, and unfortunately, the number of dead is also increasing. In the last month, the number of people in the hospital has increased sharply, as unfortunately, the number of people on the ventilator is increasing. Let us not forget that in Hungary more than 30,000 people have died because of the virus! We know that much has changed since the previous waves, fortunately we already have vaccination, and quite a lot of people have been vaccinated, but the most important thing for us at the beginning of the fourth wave is that Hungarian citizens, Hungarian families, are less affected by the new wave of the virus. There are still millions of people among us who are not vaccinated, and among the uninoculated, one of the most risky groups is the elderly. Prime Minister said: "Those who do not get vaccinated are at risk of life, or at least at risk of a serious illness. I totally agree with that. And we also know that people who are vaccinated may get sick, even if it is less serious, but obviously an epidemic is always the greatest risk for older people and chronic patients. In neighbouring countries, previous restrictions, methods of protection are applied again, or at least they know when they will be introduced. For this reason, I ask the Secretary of State how they intend to protect the elderly in the fourth wave. When and what measures will be taken by the government to ensure that the fourth wave of the coronal virus causes as little casualties as possible, and what previously proven or possibly new methods of defense will be introduced? Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2021-10-04-70	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here.
u2021-10-04-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it was very important that, for the first time in Europe, Hungary had the opportunity to take the third vaccination, because vaccination against the disease is the solution. We are in a completely different timeline, thank God, since there have been so many vaccinations in Hungary, millions of doses of 7-8 million that anyone can be vaccinated with at any time can also receive their first vaccination, the second or the third vaccination, and this is true for our elderly countrymen, as you said, they are the most at risk. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) There was no European country, which, in order to prevent further waves, would have provided the possibility of a third vaccination earlier. But I would add that almost all of Europe's countries and most countries in the world have been prevented from providing the first two vaccines to older people. They still had priority, but we also introduced a visitation ban to protect them; we also set a separate shopping time band to protect them. That is why we have been placed on the Nikkei international index among the best in the order of defence, and that is why the Director General of the WHO has recognised the Hungarian defence measures, who said that thanks to the joint efforts of the population and the Hungarian government, we can safely say this as international recognition. Anyone can apply now, you know that in the previous months, teams of doctors, medical students, and medical students have contacted the elderly individually, so that those who may not have had the chance to be vaccinated before, although everyone could have done so, should have had the possibility to bring the vaccine to the house. That's how we tried to protect as many people as possible. What we have seen, however, is that you here in Parliament, where you knew, have prevented protection by chamomuvide, where you have not yet withdrawn anti-vaccination parliamentary resolutions, and where you have led the local governments, say, in Budapest, in order to protect the elderly, Gergely Christmas has not set foot in order to protect the elderly. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. If all is true, then Congressman Péter Ungár is next. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-10-04-73	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The medical educator is one of the most dedicated professions in the state, but many are at risk of burnout and early exit. One of the reasons for this is that wages are humiliatingly low for teachers, and I would like to point out here in particular that they are also humiliatingly low for medical pedagogical assistants, and therefore there is an increasing shortage of labour in both areas. Everyone who participates in the pedagogical care system knows that. In addition, training in medical education, because they are paid and not free, so many people cannot finance their careers from this low salary. That wasn't the case before. I'm just saying this because sometimes he comes up with what was going on in my pre-age governments, but it wasn't like that before, but now they're paying off, and that's why it's harder to move forward. In addition, educators have had a lot of experience in what can be relocated online and not because of coronal viral epidemics and closure. It would be very good for the government to listen to them if they were to sit regularly with the interest representatives, and if they could change the conditions for therapeutic pedagogical work on this basis, as it was a lesson for everyone. [[13.00]] But there will be no change in the positive direction, as long as the medical pedagogical assistant working in a county town in Hungary earns HUF 186 thousand net. As long as this is the case, there will be no worthy medical education in Hungary. One of the prides of our nation is how soon we built this supply system in our history and how big people Gusztáv Bárczi gave Hungary in the field of therapeutic pedagogy, yet a medical pedagogical assistant makes 186 thousand forints, but no medical educator makes more than 250,000 forints. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-04-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer to the question from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-10-04-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The difference is, however, how the left-wing government reacted during the crisis to the teachers of medicine and to those working in the social sector. They took a month's wages from all social workers. The government you're working to get back to has reduced your salary, you've taken payments from social workers with reference to the crisis, and we've also raised social workers' salaries by 14 percent in the year of the crisis. This is the difference: one government reduced, the other raised. In fact, even to cut off the possibility of replacements, they even introduced compulsory general tuition fees for those who would like to gain upper education and social education in order to discourage them from further education. Around 2006, honourable Member, there was only one institution where medical educators were trained in Hungary, and today there are nine universities in place of one, and there is a training course at András Pető University of Semmelweis. Now both therapeutic pedagogy and conductive pedagogy have their own MA training. The number of students admitted to initial education was around 930 at the beginning of our governance, now around 1700. The priority area of the Klebelsberg Scholarship is the Faculty of Medical Teachers, with a grant of HUF 375 thousand per semester. When we started our government, there were 5,700 medical educators in Hungary, and now there are 9800 medical educators in Hungary, honourable Member. So we've been able to improve that, too. The number of school psychologists has also increased from 998 to 1838. We also tried to provide additional benefits to medical pedagogical assistants. It is certain that if you were in government in this country, the teachers of medicine were worse off when we were in government, and we tried to provide them with help and progress year after year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mária Kállai, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. When the M4 Szolnok bypass section is expected to be handed over and continue with the title Renewal of the Surroundings of Highway 4. The floor concerns Mrs Mária Kállai, and State Secretary Tamás Schanda will answer. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-10-04-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Deputy Minister, Dear House, Szolnok is one of the county seats that owes the civilian government, the Orbán government, to the highway. I think we all know exactly what this means in this House for the development and economy of a city. For Szolnok, it is equally important to avoid the 4st route, as it must be said honestly that during accidents, the traffic shifts from main road 4 to the downtown of Szolnok, which, if appropriate, will lead to a truly chaotic situation, so this burden must be removed. In addition to the development of the economy and the development of the city, it is very important for our city to eliminate transit traffic and to exempt the downtown of Szolnok from this burden on a road that avoids Szolnok. I take the opportunity to make sure that this road development, the development of the M4 is part of the program "Modern Cities." I think that the agreement between Mayor Ferenc Szalai, Mayor of Szolnok and the Prime Minister's Office is also very valuable because in this case Szolnok has requested a development that is, of course, good for Szolnok, but good for the agglomeration, good for the settlements around Szolnok, and allows a common development point. Therefore, I respectfully ask the question of when we can expect to pass the M4 bypass route, when the people who live there can take possession of it. And if the bypass is handed over, as the road is naturally worn out, its wear-out will also need to be improved and refurbished on Highway 4. On behalf of the residents of Szolnok and Szolnok, I thank you very much for your answers and thank you very much for this development. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-78	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The priority of the civil national government is the development of road infrastructure and the continuous improvement of road transport standards. We all know that, but it is worth saying here in Parliament that our main objectives include connecting county-righted cities to the motorway network, improving the availability of industrial centres, developing the existing road network, building bypass roads, and achieving our goal of convenient access to a two-track, four-track road within 30 minutes of any point in Hungary. Within the framework of the road programme launched five years ago, the development and construction of the section between M4 Abony East and Törökszentmiklós West is ongoing, which is also worth mentioning only from domestic sources, so we can be grateful to Hungarian taxpayers and companies to be able to implement this development. Twice a two-track highway can be developed on the nearly 27.5 km long stretch. The project also includes the creation of a new Tisza-ártér bridge. About three-quarters of the development has already been completed by now, and the entry into service of the road section is also planned to be dependent on weather, but we hope that these plans can be implemented by the end of February 2022. In connection with road renovations, improvements have already been made, but of course we will continue the renovations and the construction of new roads. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Finance a question:. Bize, Croatian fountain, Hetapusta, Boronka, Szőlőskislak what is the problem with them? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Prime Minister, on behalf of Gergely Gulyás Prime Minister, who is responsible and competent on the subject, State Secretary Miklós Soltész will answer the question. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The village CSOK currently provides assistance for the purchase and renovation of residential property in 2647 small settlements. However, it is regrettable that Bize, Boronka, Horvátkút, Hetapuszta and Szőlőskislak, in my narrower country, Somogyország, do not qualify as a so-called preferred small settlement under the 17/2016 government decree. This means that more than a thousand people living here, as well as those who want to live here, cannot use the village CSOK. They cannot use them because these villages were attached decades ago to Marcali and Balatonboglar, they lost their independence, and the Fidesz government now regards them as cities. But in settlements several kilometres away from Marcali and Balatonboglar with typical rural surroundings, the village CSOK would be a great help. Moreover, people have already told Mr József Attila Móring about this several times before, but there has been no positive change. I therefore respectfully ask the Secretary of State: he is willing to amend the Government Decree in order to enable people living in Bizen, Boronka, Horvátkút, Gyótapuszta and Szőlőskislak, as well as people who want to live, to become eligible for the village CS. Yes or no? Let's wait for your graceful and cooperative response. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-10-04-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[13.10]]
u2021-10-04-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, You are political as part of a coalition, and don't be surprised that you will receive this every week, which is a coalition, but your party itself has not voted in favour of all the family support systems that we have brought in over the last ten years, and that coalition in the past has abolished all the family support systems when it came to government. You did not support home-building support as opposition party, left-wing party, I think this is interesting. You did not support the development of the village CSOK system within the home creation support. You have not supported the benefits of personal income tax and other benefits to support large families and support families in general. Now you come with five settlements, and you know it very well, as I said, these are parts of two other large settlements. And you don't add that more than 230 settlements in Somogy County are part of the village CSOK. [[László Varju intervenes.]] But you didn't vote for it. And despite your other DK partner yelling here, you didn't vote for it. And then I'll ask you a question, too. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] So you, of course, will start in the coalition that has promised that if you ever came to government, all these family support systems for home creation will be abolished. Yes or no? So stand up as a candidate for Congress, please, in front of the electorate, and then let's talk about this, continue with this question. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-04-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, MEP László Varju, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. The inhabitants of the opposition settlements are also your fellow citizens! It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, who is responsible and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, will answer the question. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-10-04-85	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I think that life would have been difficult to put in a better position to prove how one-sided you are, whether it is family support or even direct municipal subsidies that apply to settlements, because we now know that Fidesz is not a sport of football, but of looting local governments, which is what they are working on in the first place. The car tax was withdrawn, the normative support of the minimum wage, and the KLIK tax was doubled; the local government's revenue was generously released from the tourist tax, the parking charges; the rent of the business premises and the business tax did not ensure that it would otherwise have been offset from the state budget. We must say that you know, Mr. Secretary, that only Budapest and its districts were shortened by HUF 110 billion. The capital's only on loans now, and by the way, the districts are coming after it. So please don't argue that you've taken over anything before, because now you've taken it back and taken it back. The lack of money thus generated last year in the case of many pro-government settlements, because they were also affected, otherwise compensated, but in this case they did nothing in Budapest and the districts. That is why your decision and procedure are extremely partial. That is why I ask: do you think that the inhabitants of the districts that choose opposition leadership are no longer Hungarian citizens, for whom the Hungarian government has a responsibility? Why do they deny them the opportunity that they're giving others unilaterally? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-10-04-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-10-04-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It's worth adding a little history, though that's what you've been trying to block yourself away from. In 2009, the State Audit Office stated in its report that your government had taken some HUF 1600 billion from the municipalities under its governance, and that this 1600 billion was largely replaced by loans and a small share of assets. This loan, by the way, was taken over by this government and paid off instead of by the municipalities. Local authorities which were not otherwise indebted at the time received special support to carry out improvements. And it is also part of this: you were a champion of Budapest and Pest counties as one region, a European Union development region, which led to the failure of Budapest, but Pest County lost some HUF 700 billion of development resources in the two EU financial cycles, which this government was able to partially replace from domestic sources within the competitive Central Hungary operational programme. But we can talk about this year and the next year. In the Hungarian budget, municipalities will receive some 23 percent more operating aid compared to the previous year. And indeed, the municipalities were also involved in the control of the coronal virus, and they were indeed involved in financial sacrifices, but we can also see that for settlements with a population of less than 25 thousand, the loss of business tax, regardless of the management of the municipality, was fully reimbursed, but the settlement that needed operating aid over 27, 25 thousand inhabitants, out of which 13 were opposition-led, we provided HUF 22.7 billion to those municipalities, of which, by the way, 11.4 billion to the opposition-led ones, i.e. 0.1 billion more than the government-led ones. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-04-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the group and MEP Péter Ungár, representatives of the LMP, wish to ask the Minister without a wallet for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant: It's an address. Dear Chief of Staff, State Secretary Pál Kovács will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-10-04-89	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We have already discussed in the debate before the agenda that there are a lot of problems with this gigantic investment, the Paks II investment. The authorisation procedure started with several years' delay, and it was not possible to obtain the permit within the deadline set by law, even after the extension. So, specifically, this huge investment has not been approved. And I have also mentioned before the agenda that it is clear that there are not only inaccuracies here, but there is no substantive answer to very, very serious questions, such as the issue of earthquake security. Then you partly attempted to answer me, Mr. Secretary, and quoted the documents of the public hearing. I'd like to ask you a clarification question. According to the relevant government decree, the site of a nuclear power plant, including its 10 km radius, shall not be designated at a break point where surface displacement has been found for the last 100,000 years. In 2016, Paks II. Zrt. a very thorough geological study of approximately HUF 8 billion was carried out on his behalf, which found that several sites near the site of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant found traces of earthquakes that caused ground-to-ground displacements less than 10,000 years old. I think that this issue needs to be clarified, and not only here in Parliament, but also in the Hungarian public, which documents exactly are being taken into account in the course of authorisation, so some extracts or this geological study in 2016 have been taken into account, and what is the guarantee that this site complies with the Hungarian standards for earthquake safety. From what we can see, it's not. And I would add that the Russians are planning this Paks expansion, the new nuclear power plant, and according to Russian law, there was no possibility that a new nuclear power plant could have been authorised above an active fault zone. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's substantive reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-10-04-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Mr Pál Kovács, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-10-04-91	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, As far as the Paks II project is concerned, I would like to reassure you that safety is the most important thing in the construction of a nuclear power plant, that the most stringent nuclear safety standards are fully and effectively met. The National Atomic Energy Office itself points out that the documentation submitted is extremely thorough in several respects, which is more than 300,000 pages; the most secure blocks in the world are built in Paks, which includes passive security systems that do not require human intervention or electricity for their operation. I can only repeat what the National Atomic Energy Office said in its own decision and published assessment, so that even earthquakes with a frequency of ten million years cannot cause a shift in the area that would have a substantial impact on the safety of the power plant. [[13.20]] What gives rise to an assessment of security of supply is the need for nuclear energy and the need for Paks in the long term. As you know, the European single electricity system fell apart only twice this year, once on 8 January and on 24 June. However, where there is strong capacity to support the network, there is partly security of supply, so Paks II. It is also a strategic issue, a guarantee of the supply of carbon-free, competitive electricity to domestic consumers and the dissemination of renewable energy sources. As a green politician, I would also like to remind you that the new blocks, as a carbon-free producer, will avoid 17 million tonnes of carbon dioxide every year, and that the cleanest electricity is produced by nuclear power plants in the European Union. We are convinced that there is no climate protection, there is no green future, and there is no low overhead without nuclear power. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "The future will be the same as today's school. Or what kind of future do they want with crippled teachers? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-10-04-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There are serious problems with domestic education. Or if power is thinking in a kind of NERSevistan paradigm and does not accept the truth content of the saying attributed to Széchenyi that the power of a nation lies in a multitude of educated heads and sees competitiveness not in knowledge, but in underpaid and maimed, eviscerable workers, then obviously everything is fine. However, the example of successful countries shows that a nation acts wisely when it prepares for the coming decades when, let us say, it looks at knowledge and considers the money spent on knowledge not as a kind of expenditure, but as an investment in the future. In other words, it is not with underqualified and truly crippled workers that we have to compete with, but with knowledge, the XXI. The knowledge-based economy of the century. Please, Secretary of State, a quote follows; by any chance, not from Gyurcsány, not even from Soros, but from Magdolna Csath, on the left. He says:. The budgetary rigour should not affect the area of education. Moreover, we need a new model in Klebelsberg, which could support the modernisation of the economic structure. Mr. Secretary. I don't know if it's understandable, because we've been writing to you here for a year now about the truth about, say, the failed one billion-dollar South Somogy school project. There seems to be a problem with understanding the text, so I'm forced to translate it all now. Teacher's career isn't attractive. Hungarian teachers are not valued morally or financially. Aging, leaving a career means a terrible shortage of teachers, and the resulting problems are increasing. Please, Secretary of State, leave the horse-zungs and answer when and how you intend to settle the domestic teacher's wages, especially with regard to the incredibly miserable wage of the beginners. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-10-04-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2021-10-04-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You may be as loud as you are in this Parliament, honourable Member, but who do you have in common with, honourable Member? What did András Fekete-Győr say a few days ago [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Experience it better, Bence!]] In the campaign of your pre-election Gyurcsány show? [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] What did he say? That there are too many schools in Hungary. Have you talked to him in the last few weeks? You know, with his support, you're going to be a Member of Parliament. To start, and with the support of Jobbik, András Fekete-Győr will be in the first place on one of the lists. And he said there's too many schools in Somogy, too. [[Ander Balázs: Stupid...]] Fewer schools would be needed, and there would be no need for secondary schools outside the district centre, because they can only teach students EU knowledge in the district centre. That's what András Fekete-Győr said, look at the page called Mérce, explaining this position, and not without a history. Those of you who want to govern together have locked the doors of the school building in 381 settlements, and neither students nor teachers have been able to return there. [[Tamás Csányi: Focus on the question, Mr. Secretary. The president's ringing the bell.]] You are working on the return of power in the Momentum of these forces and the new generation of these forces. [[Zoltán Balczó: He cannot return to power if he hasn't already!]] You've been given an episode role, you've been taken advantage of. You've been used to bring in the better voters, and you've been shredded, so that you don't have any say in shaping the future in the second round of the Gyurcsány show, honourable Member. After all, you have made an alliance with them. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Worry about yourselves! Look where you're at.]] Who have fired 15,000 educators. These people are saying that there are too many schools, that they want to shut down school. They want to close schools, hospitals, and they've done this before, and they've dismissed teachers, and of course they've taken a month's wages from teachers, which has really reduced the financial recognition of the teaching field. During the crisis, we also made a 10 percent increase in teachers' wages in your allies during the crisis, taking a month's wages from teachers, and starting with teachers in the past, with a 50 percent multi-annual wage increase programme. And we will continue to do so. But if you come to power, you will have school closures and a reduction in salary, as has been done before. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister:. Do you really want to do this? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that Secretary of State Miklós Soltész will answer you on behalf of Minister. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-10-04-97	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Your lackey media sensation last week was of questionable value, that at a public event in Debrecen Ferenc Gyurcsány, it was in a harsh tone that he restored a heat-cracking Fidesz troll. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is this how they do it in the party?]] A few seconds of video footage, which you wanted for a long, long time, somehow, according to the good habits of your forgery, of course, was cut off, of the fact that this guy harassed, insulted and threatened those involved in this meeting in an unpredictable, obscene voice, and of many people, causing such a serious alarm that there was someone who left this meeting crying. And, of course, the officers who had been ordered to do nothing about it, and instead the party president defended the people of Debrecen who were terrified of abusive behaviour. But I'll keep going. Budapesti Széll Kálmán Square, where an elderly woman hit our fellow Member Szabó Timea in broad daylight and asked him where he was when the Jews were deported, even though he knew very well that during the Holocaust, not only was Szabó Timea, but even his mother a child, so he did not have the opportunity to participate there if he was alive at all. Apparently, his aggressive behavior was just a pretext for him. I will continue: on the Erzsébet boulevard, a man repeatedly hit a female activist in DK, campaigning there, while, of course, he kept Viktor Orbán full of mouths. Many people say that this may be normal, but it's not normal, that getting here is the result of your decade and a half of constant incitement and hate-promotion. So I'd rather ask you, is that really what you wanted? You will be replaced by the Dobrev government in the spring, but the hatred you have flogged will remain with us for years, decades. Such a country, such a society, were they intended to inherit their children, their grandchildren? Is that really what they wanted? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-04-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-10-04-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Congressman! The last style allowed by Ferenc Gyurcsány in Debrecen was represented by György Marosán [[A statement from Jobbik: You can tell me about that too! You personally!]] when Csepelen told the comrades that they were comrades, not the bun is big, but your mouth is big... Not the buns are small, but your mouths are big. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: That's not very clever!]] The thing is, this is the way you speak here in Parliament. Do you remember what you were doing here in Parliament a few years before Christmas? Do you remember when Klara Dobrev simply said that they would abolish the anti-constitutional two-thirds laws? Do you remember when Ágnes Vadai, your representative, the propagandaists who caused lies and hatred at the end of Rwanda received their punishment, so you compare your politics to that and the threat? Do you remember the ÁVH method where Klara Dobrev stated that threatening the administrative workers would chase them away and hunt them down? Do you remember, by the way, what did the police do in 2016 during the demonstrations that you made during your wonderful autumn speech? Whose encouragement? [[Zoltán Varga: 2016?]] In 2006. To your encouragement, which Ferenc Gyurcsány said was impressed by the police's activities. [[13.30]] By the way, that's what Jobbik was created against, but it doesn't matter. Continuing the line, do you recall when, for example, Peter James, to whom I congratulate specifically for his preliminary results, threatened a working man or his bodyguard held a dog man from behind and threatened the ground? Do you remember these cases? You are the ones who threaten everyone and not only threaten them, but also physically, if possible, abuse them. So don't ask Fidesz voters or anyone else for anything like that. Thank you for asking. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-04-100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the questions. I'll wait for Secretary of State to hand over his seat to Minister, and we'll move on to Question Time. [[Gergely Gulyás takes his place.]] Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr. Péter Jakab and Congressman György Szilágyi, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Prime Minister? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has given him the right to reply. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Where is Peter James? Intercoms from Jobbik: And your boss?]] I ask Congressman György Szilágyi to accept the person of the response or to ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2021-10-04-101	We'll wait for Prime Minister to come to Parliament to work. Thank you. [[Miklós Soltész: And where is James?]]
u2021-10-04-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "What's next? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer you. I ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2021-10-04-103	I accept Mr. Secretary of State.
u2021-10-04-104	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Rig has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear Secretary of State, There's a big problem. There is a very serious problem within the health care system and within that in Veszprém County. During Covid, all the health institutions changed a little, and then when the wave ran down, these types of care that paused during Covid returned. Unfortunately, that cannot be said for Veszprém County. The hospital in Tapolca has had 15 medical active beds on paper for nearly a year, but it doesn't work physically, probably because of human resources, so your lips need to be delivered to an emergency room for patients who have been able to be treated professionally at Tapolca Hospital. Meanwhile, unfortunately, I will inform the Secretary of State until 20 October about 7,000 health workers left the state system. The problem is that until October 31st of this year, the hospital in Keszthely has a break in inpatient trauma care. This means that from the northern shore of Lake Balaton of Veszprém County, the patients are not sent to Keszthely, but also to the hospital of his lips. This is also a concern, Mr. Secretary, because this is bad for the patient, who, after several hours of travelling, is waiting for the patient and the relative to be taken home, is bad for the hospital, because there is not enough human resources for the lips hospital, and there is not enough bed capacity to feed the patients, so they have to wait for the examination. But the worst part is the ambulance, because they have to return to the Tapolca rescue station after several hours of patient care, after a sick trip, where during the past few hours when I worked at the National Rescue Service, there have been several times that there were no rescue vehicles available for several hours not only in Tapolca, but also in the area. That is why I respectfully ask Mr Secretary of State what the Secretary of State or EMMI will do about this situation. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-10-04-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, When the, what do we do now? I read your question about this being the title, I thought you'd be thinking about Jobbik's current situation. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks.]] Indeed, you are here now the strongest faction on the left. But here DK has announced that they will now be the strongest faction, so you have to count who will remain inside, who will not stay in, will not stay in, because you have lost it by betraying everything that was their principles and standing behind Ferenc Gyurcsány; it seems that those who submit to Ferenc Gyurcsány will sooner or later devour them, because you will be much less left after this submission than there are now. But he didn't ask me that, he asked me about the health situation. First of all, I'd like to correct a mistake on the subject. Honourable Congressman, You said that there was a decrease in the number of employees with medical service rights. I would like to say exactly how much the number of doctors working in the new service has increased by 1283 since March, the number of nurses has increased by 1794 and the number of other healthcare workers has increased by 802. Overall, this is a new health service legal relationship of nearly 4,000 people from the past period. Of course, you are putting this at risk, since Imre László said that your left-wing health policy is that 45% of hospitals have to be closed. It's obvious that during a coronal virus epidemic and the months after that, it's difficult to get the system back in place for the pre-popular period, but you have no intention of doing so, because I don't know if the hospital in Tapolca, Veszprém or which hospital would be destined to be on Imre László's list and end up among those who are not being treated. Honourable Congressman, In 2010, there were 33 943 doctors, while according to the latest figures, there were 37 188 doctors working. That's an increase, that's an increase. The gross wage, which was 538 thousand forints 3 years ago, is now 1.2 million forints for a doctor. All of this is threatened by the left because it would shut down hospitals, and the left is the only one that reduced medical wages in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-04-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Lajos Rig has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2021-10-04-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Let me add to your mistake on the subject that, in 2012, the left-wing government did not shut down internal medicine and surgery in Tapolca, but your government in 2012. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: Uh-oh!]] That was a high ball. The other is, don't argue with me about numbers. He is arguing with the official figures of the Hungarian Health Professional Chamber. Five thousand medical workers left until 16 September, and now another two thousand. He left the state health system. We were talking about a state health system, Mr. Secretary. If we're lucky, they've stayed in the country and gone into the private health system. If we're not lucky, they've left the country, strengthening the health system of Austria, Germany. But you still haven't answered my question as to how Veszprém County's health care will be repaired, because what we have now is not good, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-10-04-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-10-04-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You distort the fact that you say that a nurse who goes from one hospital to another hospital or goes from the clinic to the hospital leaves the health system, honourable Member, that it distorts, because there is such a thing as a relationship in one institution is terminated and another institution is created. We will strive to provide as much funding as possible for your wages, so we will increase the budget available for health care by HUF 770 billion next year. With HUF 770 billion, honourable Member, so the budget of 2022 will now have HUF 2884 billion available for health purposes. In particular, you mentioned the rescue. In the last left-wing budget, HUF 26.7 billion was available for rescue tasks, and next year's budget is not HUF 26, not 36, not 46, not 56, but HUF 65.5 billion, honourable Member. This means that we have more than doubled the available resources, while the left is only reduced and tightened. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-04-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Attila Mesterházy [[It's a noise from Jobbik's ranks.]] fellow Members! Congressman Attila Mesterházy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: It's an address. [[13.40]] Honourable Congressman, Due to the absence of Minister, Mr Pál Völner has given the right to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister for the answer personally.
u2021-10-04-113	Mr President, I would wait for Minister to answer my question, and I would ask you to tell Mrs Secretary that she hasn't given me an appointment to see her in three months, but she doesn't even say that she doesn't want to see me. See if we can get the information to him. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-04-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you and this House that you will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Member Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title: "Ongoing issues." I would like to inform you that Mr. Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás has appointed a Minister of the Prime Minister's Office to respond to his urgent engagement. I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2021-10-04-115	I'll take it, thank you.
u2021-10-04-116	Thank you very much. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Minister, I would like to speak with you once again on the current issue, and this is the matter of Tolna County, Szekszárd, Bonyhád and Dombóvár, so important to the M9 motorway. This is because István Horváth, your fellow Member, Fidesz Parliamentary Representative, spoke on the subject last week at Antrit Radio, Szekszárd, and I would like to try to translate literally what he said: "I would also like to say that it is a political product that the M9 Szekszárd is coming or not coming to Szekszárd. Well, the M9, it's gonna come to Szekszárd, too, if it's gonna be built, because it's also, uh, it's been said that at some point there was a map of the M9 trail to Baranya County. We've cleared this up several times with the Transport Authority in Baranya County. In this respect, I will also basically take the facts for a long time with the honourable voters... The M9 trail will arrive at Szekszárd, so it's a fact that hasn't changed. There could be different alternatives. Someone sees a work piece and basically treats it as a fact. This means shallowness, not thinking about or following through on the real content. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's what the baroque slogan said. But it can be extracted that István Horváth believes that the M9 trail remains in Tolna County. I add that the superficiality and the work paper that everyone refers to, and I do not think it is all right, I hold it in my hand... this programme is published by the Government of Hungary, which is more competitive, by the way, by Mihály Varga and Minister Palkovics, with their own signature. It says here that the highway will not go to Szekszárd, or that MTI has issued news with this map. You see, Minister, it's a fact that you're not coming to Szekszárd. I ask you again, because believe me, this is what the people in the region are most interested in, that, as you promised, the government has already succeeded in making a decision that the M9 road will go from Kaposvár to Dombóvár, Bonyhád and Szekszárd, and obviously not to the Baranya county trail from this point of view. If possible, it should be built, but it can confirm that Szekszárd, Bonyhád, Dombóvár [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Will the M9 be built? I look forward to your reply, Minister.
u2021-10-04-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-10-04-119	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The way you quoted our fellow Member Horváth is indeed accurate. So, of course, before a government decision, countless preparatory materials, decision-making alternatives are created. When the government makes a final decision, which I hope will be appropriate to your needs, we will provide you with information. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-04-120	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Tamás Harangozó. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-121	Thank you very much. The content in principle would be acceptable to the answer, but you said the same thing six months ago, Minister. I don't know what you're waiting for, and I don't know how István Horváth will tell you that I'm about to share it with you, because the Transport Authority has been cleared, and the trail will be in Szekszárd. What did my fellow Member base his statement on if there was no government decision yet? And if there has been a government decision, please confirm that, Minister. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-04-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-10-04-123	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, What I've told you is the truth. It is worth asking the maker what his statement is based on. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-04-124	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. More promises for teachers? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Bence Rétvári asked for a reply because of his absence. [[Gergely Harvester nodds.]] Thank you very much for accepting the response. It is for Congressman Gergely Arató to take the floor. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-125	Dear House, Elections are coming up, so the foreign exchange loan-funded distribution programme has also started on the government side, and we are pleased to see that the teachers will not miss it this time. Obviously, the rapid change in the government opinion is also linked to the coming elections, as a few months ago, they kept on saying that teachers' wages were wonderful, that they had great growth, that we had the best teachers' wages in all the worlds, but now the government recognises that there is a need for a teacher's wage increase. This is so true that, if nothing else, the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage would force the increase in teacher's wages, since today a teacher or teacher who is starting a career earns HUF 219 240, which is exactly HUF 240 above the guaranteed minimum wage, but even after eight years of teaching, we can only talk about 237 thousand forints, as well as those who graduated from the university and, in the case of teachers, 255 780 forints. No misunderstanding. These are gross amounts. So they represent a net amount of 120-130-140-160 thousand forints. In other words, if I didn't raise the wages, next year the guaranteed minimum wage would exceed most of the teachers' wages. You don't want this shame either, it's right, so you're raising wages, that's right. But the question is, how much. The question is that again with a one-time wage increase, one way or another, teachers' wages will be slightly increased, or they will return to teachers the wage increase that they promised when introducing the career model, when they said that the minimum wage will be the basis of the pedagogical track. That was in 2014. This indexation was terminated in 2015. Since then, teachers' wages have lost 60 percent of their value. Will you give this money back to the teachers? That's my question.
u2021-10-04-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-10-04-127	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You, as a former left-wing secretary of state for education, are still indebted to the Hungarian people and indebted to the Hungarian teachers by not explaining why you have reduced the wages of teachers. Why did you make teacher training pay? Why did they close a school building in 381 places? Why did you put 15,000 teachers on the street, honourable Member? And what we're seeing is that they're preparing to continue the same thing. You were the one who took the keys to the closed schools from the protesters. And a few days ago András Fekete-Győr said that there are too many schools in Hungary, less schools are needed in Hungary. To date, we do not understand why you have reduced the wages of teachers and the number of teachers when this is the foundation of the Hungarian future. And we also don't understand why they would continue where they left off, because they clearly said they would. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, there is a situation in which we are now confident in Hungary that this situation will be higher than the average wage at your time as of 1 January. Because the economy is growing in Hungary, and as a result, salaries are really rising. And it was also important for us to raise educators' wages. The first larger group with a multi-annual wage increase programme was teachers with a 50 percent wage increase. And in the year of crisis, when you, when you were dealing with a crisis, took away a month's pay for teachers, we increased the wages of teachers by 10 percent in the year of crisis, honourable Member. That's a big difference between your crisis management and our crisis management. We didn't have a government cycle like the 2010s, the 14s or the 18s, when there was no teacher's wage increase. [[13.50]] Our plan is, of course, to always raise the wages of teachers in the future. You have been handing out credit, honourable Member, which led to a close state situation in Hungary, which brought about the 2010 situation. From the Hungarian people's wages, the Hungarian people's work [[The president's ringing the bell.]] we are creating the possibility of these surpluses, and we want to do so in the future. Thank you very much. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: That was Freudian! Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-10-04-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. One-minute rejoinder, Congressman Gergely Arató has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-129	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, You're a particular Moricka who remembers everything about the Gyurcsány government, but you're still in charge of the Orbán government. The success of your wage-raise program, I just introduced it to you with numbers. Then let me give you another number, because there are some people who stay out of your pay raise. For example, teachers who work in the field of public education and scientific education. I myself saw the payroll of a colleague on the field 45 years ago, according to which he will receive a salary of HUF 182 941, because he still receives the civil servant's salary that was last raised during the Gyurcsány government, since it is already the Gyurcsány government. On the issue of public debt, I would like to say that it is twice as much today as it was in 2010. Thank you.
u2021-10-04-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-131	Thank you very much. Forgive me if I remember the performance of the Gyurcsány government from the Secretary of State of the Gyurcsány government, and if I read in the news that they would continue closing schools where they left in 2010, then this should be scary enough to ask you why this program, that they feel that they have not closed enough schools yet, that they have not yet given up enough teachers, but that additional schools must be closed down and additional teachers must also be dismissed. Honourable Congressman, Nevertheless, we also tried to encourage young people to choose the teaching field in terms of career choice with a Klebelsberg scholarship. In general, almost every year the third most popular training area is the pedagogical area, and we hope that the Klebelsberg scholarship has also contributed to this. Next year, we plan to spend at least HUF 108 billion more on schools, teachers and students, and under our current governance, we have already increased the amount of money that can be spent on education by 72 percent. We would like to continue this further, not to reduce it like you, but to increase it. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-10-04-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group, and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Dear Chief of Staff, Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has given him the right to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2021-10-04-133	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2021-10-04-134	Thank you very much, Your Honour. The Prime Minister will have to answer you at the hour of the second question. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "They have ceased forever for the government? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, if you are qualified to respond. [[On the sign of Péter Ungár:]] Thank you very much. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor. Here you go. [[The clock won't start.]] Is the card in, Congressman? Let's fix this. [[The congressman puts his card in the machine.]] It happens after a year and a half because we didn't use it over there.
u2021-10-04-135	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, We are in the fourth wave of the coronal virus epidemic, and the people who have worked through the first three waves have still not been appreciated, which has been a great strain on others. They stayed in a nursing home, took the medicine out in daytime care to people who were particularly at risk, and did so by social workers who were basically the worst-paid state employees. The fact is that the one-off HUF 500,000 wage supplement was also very well provided by the government to those working in the health sector, but it is still incomprehensible why they did not give this one-off HUF 500,000 wage supplement to those working in the social sector, when the epidemic could not have survived without them. Rétvári, Secretary of State, will not be able to explain the proportion of wages in the social sector; if you look at the average wage in comparison to the average wage in 2010, 70 percent of the average wage in the social sector is currently 40 percent. The wages of workers in the social sector have also decreased in terms of their purchase value. You know very well that many people earn between 170 and 180 thousand forints by being on the field for 10 and 15 years, and, let's say, they work in a residential nursing home or, say, child protection or daytime care, and this is simply untenable. The stock that participates in the social sector is getting very, very old, and most of the people who run an institution and you talk to them say that it is very difficult to find new young people who are starting their careers, and this is basically because of the pay issue. So I would ask that if, instead of repeating recent political events, the Secretary of State answered the question as to why they did not receive the one-off HUF 500 thousand, we would succeed in raising the quality of this House together. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-04-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear House, Well, if we wanted to raise the quality of the House together, then perhaps it would be worth talking to Peter James first of all, to say that he should not sit in the chair of the Prime Minister, because I do not think that raising the quality of the House is the kind of a clown. But we've seen that in the last few weeks, his own supporters haven't appreciated it either. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Honourable Congressman, We agree that Hungarian social workers should be recognised for their work during the epidemic, because we have seen that in other countries social workers have abandoned their fear of the virus, abandoned the elderly, sick people, and have not helped them during the coronal virus epidemic, and many, even dozens, have unfortunately died in one institution because of the lack of care, while they have endured everywhere in Hungary. In fact, there were some people who moved in. It is a compliment to all those involved in this work. At the same time, your view of social workers as left-wing parties is striking when we look at the fact that when you were dealing with a crisis, the first concern was that you took a month's wages from social workers. Not from multinationals, not from corporates, but from social workers. On the other hand, we have now raised the wages of social workers by 14 percent during the crisis. You have reduced it, we have raised this huge difference, honourable Member. That you have to increase it on this salary? I completely agree. But also take into account that there was a social sector wage supplement that affected 90,000 people with a salary of HUF 12 billion, in the following year a salary supplement was HUF 16 billion, and 66 thousand people in the social sphere increased their wages. There was a combined bonus increase: it also meant an average of 35,000 forints for 14,000 people. And as I mentioned, during the crisis, there was a 14 percent increase during the corona virus epidemic, not a one-time allowance, but an undercover 14 percent allowance every year. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That's what we want to raise. But we want to avoid what you've done by taking a month's wages from social workers. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-10-04-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be addressed to Congressman Péter Ungár. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-139	I'd go philosophically. I believe that there is a familiar, material, objective reality behind the words. There are two things coming from this. First of all, I and my fellow Members, who are in the group, did not govern. It's a fact. The second is that the HUF 500,000 in Hungarian currency was not paid to social workers in reality, in the field of reality. Now you can answer that again with a production report of 74 or you can comment on what we have already learned about Ferenc Gyurcsány, but this HUF 500,000 will not be charged to social workers. So I'd like to ask you to try and work this together so that these people can be paid for this extra work. And don't get me wrong, but, please, answer me why you didn't get the one-time $500,000. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-04-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-10-04-141	Thank you. There's a reality behind all of our words. The reality behind your words is that you are working to bring Ferenc Gyurcsány back to power. [[Defiance from opposition ranks.]] This may be awkward for you in hindsight, but... [[Defiance and applause from the opposition ranks. Intercoms from opposition lines: Bravo! Bravo! The president's ringing the bell. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Experience it a little, it'll be fine.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, At our time, wages in the social sphere increased by 110 percent [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Long live the party!]] 110 percent, more than twice. [[14.00]] You are also fully aware that during the time of Ferenc Gyurcsány, I left the space for the applause reduced the wages of those working in the social sphere. The reality behind the words is that you know that you're helping the man who took you back into power once from social workers. No one else has taken me since 90, only Ferenc Gyurcsány, but you would like to... [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. György Szilágyi: The question is where is the 500 thousand forints.]] But you would like to keep your power and increase your power, so you would like to be a Member again, and therefore you have asked for the list of Ferenc Gyurcsány. Although they know that the victory of this list can mean a re-reduction of social wages, they have asked for it, so [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that you personally maintain their existence and power. That's the sad reality behind the words. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Where is the 500 thousand forints? That's the question.]] Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-142	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to keeping the time frame more precise. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I took the applause out of him.]] Dear House, Fellow Members! Head of the Szabó Timea Group and Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] fellow Members! Members of the Dialogue, they want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What's going on?" It's an address. Mr President, because of the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás, the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister personally for an answer.
u2021-10-04-143	We'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2021-10-04-144	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister will have to answer you at the hour of the third immediate question. And thank you for staying standing, because you're next. Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. What is going on here? It's an address. Honourable Member, I would like to inform you that, due to the absence of the Minister, you have authorized Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[For signal:]] Thank you for letting me know that you're accepting the response. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-145	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As a opposition politician, I think it's fair to ask, [[In one hand, his laptop, and in the other hand, his phone was lifted:]] I want you to watch this device or this device of mine. Which one did they install the software, the Pegasus software? According to your boss, Judit Varga, you're authorized to do these observations, so I'm sure you know the answer, but you haven't answered that question in 78 days, and you're not answering any questions about the Pegasus scandal. 78 days! You will certainly say in your reply that at the meeting of the National Security Committee, everything has been clarified, all has been answered by the opposition representatives who are sitting there, but this is not the case. Two things came out at the National Security Committee meeting. One is that you, the Fidesz Members, voted against the fact-finding committee, which would have given you an opportunity to clarify this issue. If you have nothing to hide, why don't you support the establishment of this subcommittee? The other one, which turns out that you've been encrypting what's been said for 30 years. This does not point to the clarification of the case. Do you really think you can handle this case by using anti-terrorist technology, spy software to observe opposition politicians, investigative journalists, public figures? ! Until this case is cleared, there is reason to believe that you are abusing power. My questions: why don't you support the creation of a fact-finding committee? Why haven't you been cleared of the Pegasus case for 78 days? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-10-04-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-10-04-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, It may not be known to you, but there is a 1995 CXXV. law on national security services. I suggest you and your fellow party members read it. What goes on under this law in this country is legal. It has been highlighted at all forums that since 2010 services have not carried out any illegal activities in Hungary. Technically, the committee that you are talking about, which I had the pleasure of attending, has received all the answers to all the questions asked, could also practically learn what the wider public cannot know and have received all the questions. The fact that you're trying to do a political squash in this case is cheating on reality. That is why I say that, in contrast to pre-2010 situations, when we can see that lawsuits are still taking place, judgments are still being made, that the services of the time under the control of Ferenc Gyurcsány have been working together with the underworld as a political adventurer, which has had its consequences, but these claims today do not hold up, regardless of what false news you are trying to spread through international organisations and through international organisations. Thank you. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Fake news, of course! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-149	Thank you for the floor. Compared to the fact that you're probably always going through our computers and notes, Secretary of State, you could have been better prepared with that answer. I don't believe a word you say, and a lot of people do. If everything is legal, if everything is legal and legal, then why don't you support the fact-finding committee? The National Security Committee is capable of controlling the secret services, so why aren't they supporting it? Based on this logic, what you're saying, you can listen to anyone at any time without justification, collect information about any opposition politician, any citizen. It's customary in dictatorships, not in the rule of law. If you often ask us why we do not regard Hungary as a rule of law, then, for example, this is why; I do not talk about the rest, we also say them. You and your boss should have resigned in a state of law a long time ago. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2021-10-04-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is the subject of Secretary of State Pál Völner. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The reason why I started my speech earlier was that I showed that such a law existed, because if you read this, you would know that it is necessary, proportionate and that these types of activities can only be carried out within any framework. You clearly didn't read it, or you wouldn't say it was unlimited and how it happened. And technically, as has been said several times, it is not someone's status that allows the National Security Service to conduct an investigation, but the system of relations it has and the activities it carries out; if it is a threat to the state, then it is everyone's duty to protect it against it. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Csaba Nagy, representative of Fidesz, would you like to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: It's an address. Mr President, because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Tibor Pogácsás has entrusted the Secretary of State with the reply. I respectfully ask... [[For signal:]] But I'm not gonna ask you any more, because I can see the meta-communication signal that you're accepting the response. Congressman Csaba Nagy has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-153	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, We heard from the press that during the first round of the left-wing pre-election on the M3 motorway, the pre-election coordinator of the Ózd constituency was involved in an accident. Yet the picantria of the sad event is that a large amount of cash and a lot of pre-election ballots were also found in the crashed car. After the police crime scene, a lot of ballots remained scattered on the side of the road, and the 18 million HUF is at the police station, but no one reported for it. The National Election Committee has confirmed that the ballot papers have not yet been used, i.e. they have not delivered votes to Budapest by the Ozd coordinator. The committee also added that the electoral district organisers are responsible for the supervision, transmission and coordination of ballot papers. The question arises, then, as to what all the ballots and cash were needed for. Of course, it should also be borne in mind that it may not be in someone's interest that these ballots arrive. It also shows that the left can do anything for power. If they're already doing this, what can we expect from them later? In any case, in the light of the results of the first round of the left-wing pre-election, we can say that everything in the act was as planned by the boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány. Gyurcsány shredded the Momentum, the LMP, destroyed Jobbik, and put the MSZP away long ago. So we can see that there is no renewal on the left, no new faces, because under the leadership of Ferenc Gyurcsány, the people of the failed past are trying to return to power. [[14.10]] One thing we can be sure of: however the show goes on on the left, Gyurcsány will laugh at the end. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that the proceedings be initiated for the accident on the M3 motorway. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-10-04-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary is a democratic rule of law, and as such, no one is above the law, the laws apply equally to everyone. Every time a criminal offence is suspected, police investigate, investigate in accordance with the law, and carry out all necessary procedures. It is the practice of the Ministry of Interior not to provide information in the light of the interests of the investigation in an ongoing case, pending proceedings. In this case, the Pest County Police Department ordered an investigation on September 23rd, and more information will be provided only after the investigation has been concluded. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Csaba Nagy has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-157	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I also asked this question because I consider it very important that when an election starts, even if it is a pre-election, it should take place under the right circumstances. This case has also demonstrated that the criticisms that have been made in relation to the pre-election are justified. Some people call it a pre-election thingy, I think that's the best term in that regard. I would like to draw everyone's attention to one thing: Péter Jakab supported the Farkas Péter Barnabas in Ozdon, whose famous image caused scandal in the press and public opinion, in my own constituency and in Baranya it was György Alpár who threatened journalists and civilians. What I can tell you is that one of the better candidate dogs, the other a better representative dog, for money and power, Jobbik can do anything in Hungary. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Will there be an independent thought?]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-158	Congressman! I therefore give you a warning for your comment. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I can only repeat: the government does not put pressure on the police's work, the police do their job, they do their work, the police act equally against everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Member László Földi, representative of the KDNP, notary of the Parliament, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. Unlike the former left-wing governments, what economic policy measures does the Government help Hungarian people? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister, for your absence, you have appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to answer. [[On the mark of László Földi:]] Thank you very much for accepting the response. Speaking for Congressman László Földi, notary of Parliament.
u2021-10-04-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Today Hungary has a strong, well-developed economy, and despite the crisis, it has a balanced fiscal policy. The Fidesz-KDNP government, as opposed to previous left-wing governments, has now achieved significant results, based on support for families, tax reduction policy and investment incentives. Tax cuts leave an additional HUF 600 billion for families, the population and businesses this year, because it is possible to govern or manage a crisis. And how else is there? Cutbacks, cuts. During the Gyurcsány government, unemployment was 12 percent, a month's pension was taken away, the home creation programme was abolished, gas and electricity prices were increased, local governments were forced into bankruptcy. How are we doing compared to that? After 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government freed one million families from the currency trap by HUFing the loan, preferential end-payments, exchange rate fixing and the National Asset Manager. The credit moratorium has been a real help in protecting the standard of living of jobs and families. Dear Secretary of State, These measures were not voted by the left, did not support the bank tax or the multi-party tax. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What are you talking about? What are you talking about? When you pissed at the banks...]] As did the welfare measures, the decisions we made to lift the fallen layers, the tax reduction policy, which was also consistent. It was not so long ago that the left led Hungary into financial collapse; on behalf of the KDNP faction, I hope that this cannot happen again. We can now provide credible solutions to real problems. That is why I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what additional economic policy measures the Hungarian Government is doing to help Hungarian people. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. To answer the question, András Tállai...
u2021-10-04-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear...
u2021-10-04-164	Mr. Secretary. I'm giving you the floor now. The clock is about to start.
u2021-10-04-165	What?
u2021-10-04-166	The clock's about to start.
u2021-10-04-167	Great, thank you very much. [[Defiance.]] Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Congressman! Indeed, crisis management was different when the country was in crisis during the left-wing government, and it is quite different now, during the Fidesz-KDNP government. The crisis management at the time was about cuts: companies were squeezed by tax increases, people by income cuts, 13 months' pension withdrawal, which you listed. As a result, the country had to emerge from the crisis for years: it needed a change of government, the Fidesz government came and tried to put things right, such as foreign exchange loans. The Fidesz government handled the crisis differently: it protected jobs, provided subsidies, but did not encourage businesses to send people to unemployment. This is what the left wanted: to send him out of work, to raise the unemployed, and then there will be some way. It did not support investment, although it is in times of crisis that we need the best support for development, so that we can move further and further forward, rather than pushing businesses who would have developed into credit and foreign currency loans. The Fidesz government did not do this: it supported investment even with EU funds; then the Fidesz government increased consumption during the crisis! in order to make it better for families, and because the increase in consumption has an impact on the results of the economy, GDP, it increases and strengthens GDP. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Well, they've produced quite a different outcome than the crisis management ten years ago. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-04-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Földi, the notary of Parliament. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-169	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. What I consider most important is that 4.7 million people are working in Hungary today 4.7 million! , so many people in Hungary have not worked since the change of regime. But it is important to point out that income taxes have decreased by 50 percentage points since 2010, and the Parliament has already discussed it, and the Prime Minister has announced that from 2022 we will raise the minimum wage to HUF 200,000. Support and support for large families will continue, and what I think is very important: next year, youth freedom will also enter the system. So everything is given to enable Hungary to continue its dynamic development. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-171	Thank you very much. That's right, Congressman. The thing is, the left-wing thinking at that time is that if there is a crisis, and the budget is in trouble or the economy, it will be solved by tightening people up, and this is not the reality, and the Fidesz government has just proved that. By the way, not only do we say this, but also the Moody and world rating company says that Hungary has handled the crisis well. It is a good idea to give people support, pension supplement, income, tax reduction so that they can consume, as I said, and if consumption does not decrease, then the economy will remain strong. It is clearly the goal of the government to continue to do so in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.20]]
u2021-10-04-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "In the heavens, fuel prices, workers need urgent help"! Honourable Congressman, Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office... [[Róbert Honkers nodds.]] Thank you very much for indicating your acceptance of the response. Congressman Róbert Hondas has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-173	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, There have been a number of forms of support in Hungary over the past few years, which I would like to point out, above all, that we agree, be it about the subsidies for pensioners, because they have worked on the time that life has put on them, so I think that they are worth all the support. Families get support. Well, who would we be supporting, right, if it wasn't for the families? We therefore fully agree with this form of support. As with the support of parents who have children, I think that an important point, because children are the future, their support is important and essential. At the same time, which is the least mentioned, if at all, and they must be seen as the engine of the economy, including Hungary, and this is the workforce. It is the employee's layer that is perhaps most likely dimmed into oblivion when we talk about subsidies. There are a lot of areas that we should highlight, and we should talk about it, and I'm just taking out one segment now, and that's the cost of paying for the fuel cost of going to work. We all know that fuel prices are skyrocketing, 500 forints over 100 for petrol, analysts say it can reach 600 forints. Each mile, the employer can pay the employee HUF 15 tax-free, which, let's be honest, is humiliatingly low and does not cover the cost of going to work. Once again, we are talking about a sphere that is the engine of the economy in Hungary and, by the way, everywhere in the world. I ask you to pay particular attention to this, so let's do this by raising the current 15 HUF to 30 HUF by the government, helping employees, otherwise helping employers, since this payment will be tax-free from here to 30 HUF. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I ask Minister if he can support this initiative. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-10-04-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-10-04-175	Honourable Congressman, The government will, of course, examine all sensible opposition proposals. This doesn't mean incredible workspace. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] At least based on the experience of the last few years, but that's within that circle. However, I would like to draw your attention to the following points. Today the increase in petrol prices affects some European countries, not only in Western European countries which are richer than we are, but also in the Central European region, even in Albania it is more expensive than in Hungary or in the Czech Republic, in Italy more than 600 forints and in the Netherlands almost 700 forints for a litre of petrol. That is why it was the right decision to adopt in 2016 a excise duty law which said that excise duty would only increase, in proportion to the price, according to the previous system, if the world market price for oil was low, so that the price per barrel is below $50. Since here in the last quarter, which is to be taken into account in the calculation, it was over $72, so the rate of excise duty did not increase. And in the same way, according to a special procedure, the rate of VAT is not increased if the amount of the cost to be included in the basic price of the fuel exceeds this price per barrel of $50. This is why, today, according to the OECD Member States, Hungary collects the minimum excise duty for each gallon, with $0.55 and more than half a dollar less than the OECD average; this is 1.69 in Hungary, 2.58 in Belgium, 2.74 in France, 3.11 in Italy. Therefore, the government has done a great deal to avoid transferring the cost of increasing the raw material price to fuel. Of course, we are open to every good proposal. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-176	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Róbert Dudás. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Thank you very much for your reply. You said the fuel is expensive elsewhere. I didn't say the fuel wasn't expensive anywhere else, I asked that we do everything together to help the workers. But let us also help employers, as we should provide them with a budget that they can tax-freely provide to workers. He said in the last sentence of the Minister that they were open to all such questions that help workers, then I would like to point out to him the proposal for a resolution that I will present today on the subject that I have just talked about and the content that I have just talked about, so we will raise the current budget of HUF 15 to HUF 30. I very much hope that you will deliver a positive opinion not only in your reply but also in support of the proposal for a decision. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-10-04-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-179	We will study the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Zoltán Balczó: And there was no Gyurcsány... Róbert Dudás: Thank you.]]
u2021-10-04-180	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Member László Varju, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "Only the privileged can walk the right way? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the absence of Minister, Mr András Tállai has entrusted the Secretary of State with an answer. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[Laszlo Varju nods.]] He'll take it. Thank you very much. Congressman László Varju has the floor.
u2021-10-04-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If we continue to think about this, it is difficult to find decent answers in the Fidesz government in its decision on municipalities. I would like to give you an example of this. On the basis of the announced government decree, we know that in June you did not give infrastructural development to the district of Budapest, but you distributed more than HUF 6 billion to the pro-government area. Then, a few months later, 15 billion forints were distributed to eight districts, but unfortunately Budapest IV. His district didn't get a penny on either occasion. Therefore, the Municipality of Újpest turned to the Prime Minister in a letter, as obviously because of a fatal error, an administrative error, the citizens of Újpest could not receive such support. Of course, I'd be happy to give you the letter, although most of the letters sent to the Treasury Department are lost and I don't get an answer. But to be clear: I am talking about Újpest in the case of the Székeszlő, and I am asking the honourable Secretary of State about it, and I look forward to his reply that the majority of Fidesz lost in the municipal elections, who are never in the parliamentary elections, because they have also lost their fidesz representation... why you must and why you are free to make such decisions. Why does the government allow itself to neglect Hungarian citizens who are otherwise living in Újpesten and do not help their situation? In principle, you should govern for the good of the whole country. How decent do you think it is that you support practically only fidesz districts? Believe me, there are Hungarian citizens living in Újpesten, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2021-10-04-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, One thing is certain: The main goal is to provide the ground roads of the vineyard with a solid cover. I don't know, what you know is that in 2019, when Zsolt Wintermantel was a representative, the municipality won 300 million forints. But what happened to the HUF 300 million was that they couldn't use it at the time of Tibor Déri's mayorship and had to pay it back to the state. If you ask me how, when, this money will be replaced, obviously with a new application. But from what I can see, the IV isn't really a success. district with these applications. [[14.30]] The tender was submitted in 2019 and the construction permit could not be verified. On 2 October 2019, the aid contract was concluded at the second stage, but the condition of entry into force was not met because the certificate was not submitted on the effective procurement procedure by 30 November. Then in 2020, this is still the IV. district, available resources available for allocation at three paces, but not started at any rate. In 2020. The aid application was not submitted in 2021, as early as this year, at the first stage, for the detailed information sent on 15 December 2020 for multiple telephone calls. Mr. Congressman, first let's see what's going on in that district, who's screwing things up, because I don't think it's possible to mess up that much, but if it's possible, there's a lot of trouble there. I'd like to suggest that you take into account the fact that everyone's sweeping in front of your house first. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-04-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Varju. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-185	Dear Secretary of State, One thing you forgot to say is that this contract should have been concluded by the end of November 2019. But since you and the municipality under the mayor of Zsolt Wintermantel, mentioned by you, have neither prepared nor ordered the plans, this contract could not have been concluded. It was all a balloon that you covered with this paper, and you later, when the municipality asked for a deadline amendment, did not consent to it, and from then on everything you're talking about may be true. Dear Secretary of State, you screwed this up. That is why people were deceived, promised earlier, but otherwise not done enough. Plus, you're blocking it, because there's Dunakeszi, the district, the capital, the companies, and you're blocking it. Finally, I would like to mention one thing. A similar arrogant response was received by Mrs Anett Bősz on the previous question. It was so unfair of your fellow secretary of state that I refuse round pretzels on this road. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-04-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-187	Honourable Congressman, I don't know what the arrogant thing was. I'm the one who listed the facts. Was there 300 million forints? Was. Were they able to use it? No. Is that arrogant to you? He's arrogant because it's true. 'Cause somebody's a jerk over there who's gonna ruin these. There was money, but they can't do it. I was mayor for eight years, so I didn't go once, even though the government was left-wing at the time. [[László Varju: Right? That's what I'm talking about!]] Well, I could do it. [[László Varju: That's what I'm talking about!]] You're not. [[László Varju: They're not fucking with him, they're helping!]] But let's look at this capital decision. The Mayor will be elected in October 2019. On May 3rd, do you know what your decision is? It reduces the road construction framework of six right-wing districts, completely nullifies three and reduces it to three. That, no, it was almost his first decision to build a road. And then you ask me, is there a political decision to be made? These districts have been compensated for the decision of the mayor on the left. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-04-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Minister Miklós Soltész has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his absence. [[Mónika Dunai says yes.]] Thank you very much, the Congresswoman has indicated that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-189	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, According to press reports, Gergely Karácsony's candidate for Prime Minister of Gyurcsány-show, mayor of Gyurcsány has worked as advisor to the Gyurcsány government for years, which he does not normally appear in his CVs, unlike the doctoral degree and language exams of the non-existent, which he has performed several times. However, as it turned out from the examination of the Board of Education, he could not have been an assistant professor, but he could not have taught at Corvinus University, and of course he could not have earned tens of millions of forints here over the years, about which the politician also mistook. According to documents published in the media, Gergely Christmas has been consulting the Gyurcsány government since 2004. The mayor of the Prime Minister's seat rarely and reluctantly talks about this period. However, Klára Dobrev recalled, in the second debate of the presidential candidates, what the candidates of the six-party opposition were doing in 2006, when the mass protests that had been started by her husband Ferenc Gyurcsány's speech in autumn, lasted for months, were beaten up with brutal police violence. During that period, Gergely Gyurcsány was under the hands of Ferenc Christmas. As it turns out, basically all he had to do was follow the events and consult. For this reason, Christmas received tens of millions of taxpayers' money thanks to Ferenc Gyurcsány. In return, after the election of Gergely Christmas in 2019 he was not ungrateful to his former employer, he filled the Municipality of Budapest with former known people of the Gyurcsány era. Mr Secretary of State, I ask you that there is any written evidence of the work of millions of advisors during the Gergely Gyurcsány government of Christmas. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-04-190	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer is given by Secretary of State Miklós Soltész. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-10-04-191	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, it was an interesting scene a few days ago, when I say in a quote from Klára Dobrev, Mrs Gyurcsány, she dropped it with a sentence with good intentions that the people with whom they are now on a common platform on the left, who did what in 2006 after the speech in autumn and after the terrible police terror. That's probably how he was trying to distribute the responsibility. Indeed, he pointed out that, as he said, Gergő was the government's former advisor. I'll be more specific here. This is true, he received 350 thousand forints a month between 2002 and 2008. At that time, the minimum wage was around HUF 50,000. So what that would mean next year is that he could have received a fee of 1.4 million forints. But why? The Ministry of Justice sought out the contract, and it says that there is no record of the written performance, which cannot be verified from the available data. In other words, you should ask your boss, then Ferenc Gyurcsány and now Ferenc Gyurcsány. During that time, he was teaching at Corvinus, as you said, without a doctoral exam or a language exam, there he received HUF 218 thousand a month, and even worked or researched at Median. That he was working, of course, I'll put it in quotes, so he was there, he took his paycheck from there. The sad thing about this is that someone who is in the post of Prime Minister has been limping for a decade, and we are actually seeing what he is doing in Budapest as a mayor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-04-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-193	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I accept the reply of Mr Secretary of State, but it is unacceptable that Gergely Christmas, who is the candidate for Prime Minister of the Pre-election, who wishes to be the prime minister of the left, is constantly lying. He's lying about his past. He's making real things look like they didn't happen, and he's trying to deny, deny, and make things happen. I mean, it's embarrassing for him that Ferenc Gyurcsány worked under his control during the Gyurcsány government, but I think that his continuing lying doesn't lead to anything. What kind of prime minister candidate lies about his past and the present? What would he want to do in the future? I see you're a good student of Ferenc Gyurcsány's about lying, who said they lied in the morning and at night and at night. Thank you very much for your answer. [[14.40]]
u2021-10-04-194	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Miklós Soltasz is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-10-04-195	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He thanked his former and current boss for hiring quite a few people in the capital who had fallen out of the Gyurcsány government. By the way, they run the capital, we can see that every day. And it's also disappointing that he did his job there. He's not done. But he's not doing a job right now. When you think about how the lives of hundreds of thousands of people from the capital and the agglomeration are made impossible by the terrible traffic that is in the capital because of incompetence, the filth and dirt that can be experienced in the capital shows that it does not lead the capital. And it is also disappointing that, while most of the people were fighting the epidemic, what he was doing - a pre-election campaign. Why? It's just for power. He cares about power, he doesn't care about work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-196	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the hour of immediate questioning, and that is the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We will now continue our work with speeches after the agenda. Mr Bence Rétvári of the KDNP Group has applied for a post-meeting speech. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-10-04-197	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We also tried to create and maintain as many jobs as possible in Vác and the Danube Bend during the coronal virus epidemic. Hundreds of millions of forints arrived at employers, companies, and hundreds of families managed to maintain their existence. But as soon as we were nearing the end of the epidemic, the funds needed for the reboot started, and this is already spectacular not only in Vácon but also in the surrounding dozens of settlements. Vácon has launched one of the largest renovation and tourism projects in the history of the city, the renovation of the cathedral, which can start with a government grant of HUF 4 billion. They have been waiting for generations to build the Danube Bridge in Vác. Here a European Union public procurement tender has been launched for preparatory and planning work, which has been successfully completed and works can start. We will also continue the work needed to extend the M2 to two lanes twice. A few years ago, we handed over the section from Budapest to Vác, and now we are also in the process of purchasing the preparation, and we will have a result announcement soon. Here the work can continue with a 10-kilometer Vácot bypass section. But it is more than half a billion forints coming to Vác for nursery construction from tender and government sources, as the entire additional amount requested by the city, hundreds of millions of forints, was made available by the government to the city to build a new nursery in Deákvár. But not only for new construction, but also for the renovation of the kindergarten on Kölcsey Street, the renovation of the kindergarten on Sirály Street, the expansion of the Újhelyi út tagovoda and the renovation of other municipal institutions, the government gave a total grant of HUF 400 million. But it could have been built from 40 million forints of pump or bike park, and bicycle roads were renovated from Vác to Sződliget to North to Verőc, and the Váci Civitas Orchestra receives nearly ten times as much support from the state as from the city. As a church support, churches will be renovated in Nagybörzsöny and Bishop's Hatvan. During the summer nearly one and a half billion forints of reboot support were received in the Dunakanyar settlements. Nagymaros can build a new type A gym with HUF 783 million government support, and in Verőcé we restored the bell leg of the Seven Leader dreamed by Imre Makovecz. The expansion of the Karolina School in Vác is already taking place in Kismaros, Sződön, Vácdukán and Őrbottyán, as well as in its preparatory phase. The renovation of the little railway in Királyrét has been completed. We spent a billion and a half forints on the renovation of the RDFs, which means Börzsöny small railway. We also supported church community programs in ten settlements. As a result of force majeure, Kóspallag, Nagybörzsöny and Vácrátot also received significant amounts. In 13 settlements, 16 churches and a synagogue received a total of HUF 213 million in a church-built heritage tender. From government support in Nagymaros and Kismaros, an environmental protection programme, a project was implemented. 22 settlements received 462 million forints from the BM tender for road-walk renovation and construction, as well as 9 settlements received 269 million HUF for road renovation from the Hungarian village. For kindergarten renovation and kindergarten modernisation, two settlements received HUF 100 million for Galgagyörk and Márianosztra. Four settlements received nearly HUF 20 million for the development of kindergarten and playground, three settlements received HUF 40 million for the renovation of the cemeteries. Two settlements received HUF 32 million for the construction of a church community space, and three settlements received HUF 12 million for the community organizer. Four settlements received HUF 13 million for the construction of a community space, two settlements received HUF 45 million for the renovation and expansion of the village house Sződ 48 million for HUF, Váchartyán and Bishophatvan 60 million for the construction of a medical office, HUF 15 million for the purchase of Vámosmikola, four municipalities received HUF 40 million for the purchase of communal equipment, and six municipalities received HUF 9 million for the purchase of medical equipment. But it also had 15 million forints refurbished to Ring, Bishop's and Vácrátot. Falugondnok bus arrives three settlements out of 43 million forints. In 12 settlements, 15 NGOs received HUF 60 million as a civilian support. He received extraordinary government support worth HUF 140 million for Verőce, Szokolya, Kóspallag and Tübvár, and force majeure support for Kóspallag, Nagybörzsöny and Vácrátót for HUF 43 million. Püspökszilágy received HUF 200 million in LIFE project, a bicycle track was built in Nagymaros with government support of HUF 4 million, and we also create production markets in Börzsöny for a total of HUF 241 million in four settlements. The needy can receive firewood support again this year, 23 settlements received HUF 29 million. It also shows that Hungary's relaunch started with great momentum in the Danube Bend and Vácon, and soon we will be able to report investments worth tens of billions of forints and investments that create jobs. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-04-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. An independent Member, Dóra Dúró, has applied for a post-meeting speech. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-10-04-199	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, No second-class citizens should be uninoculated. This demand is made exclusively by the Hungarian Movement. However, both the Fidesz and the Balliberal Block force vaccination, branding those who do not want to take advantage of it. Viktor Orbán and Gergely Christmas are competing against each other for the vaccine, for which the manufacturers do not have to take any responsibility. Moreover, they do not contribute to the economic damage caused by the closures. Hundreds of thousands of people lost their jobs in Hungary during the period when the livelihoods of families were in difficulty, the various multi-enterprises, giant tech companies and large pharmaceutical companies became rich, and the government did not impose an epidemic tax on them so that they could at least take part in the economic damage caused by the closures. When I spoke in the debate on the law on the extension of the emergency situation for the rights of the undisposals, MEPs from Nacsa Lőrinc KDNP and Gergely Arató, DK, fell on me together, saying on a large coalition that they really agree that vaccination is the solution. Gergely Arató pointed out explicitly that DK does not agree with the government in many ways, but there is no debate between them in this regard. I have brought up facts and specific cases, and the only answer to this was the stigma of both the party of government and DK. Several of the government's representatives are going to go to the point of getting public opinion on the undisposaled. As Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó, for example, talks about the fact that the undisposals are responsible for economic, social and health damage. But as Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, who is supposed to represent all the citizens of the nation, said that the problem is with those who did not inoculate themselves. These people work decently, raise children, pay taxes, pay social security; this, because they have a different opinion on a particular issue than the Prime Minister, is the Prime Minister himself who brands them, and the entire government is blackmailing them to get vaccinated. And even though they're paying for social security, they're not being treated in health care. I'll get a line! the plaintiff's letters to the plaintiff that they simply do not receive health care in dentistry, hospital or medical practice. [[14.50]] When I confronted the pro-government representatives, Lőrinc Nacsa simply denied this, as if this were not happening in reality. But not only are they excluded from health care, but they are also blackmailed by the loss of jobs. This was started in the health care sector, which once again caused so much damage in this sector, the consequences of which are inaccessible. About 3,000 workers leave the sector where development, money, modern tools and respect for workers would otherwise be needed. Compared to that, the government would rather drive them away by trying to force this vaccine on them. And not only would they come to themselves after these impossible measures have been taken, but they will continue. Orbán also announced in his interview with Kossuth Radio that not only in health care, but also for all employers, employers will require workers in all sectors to have a compulsory vaccination, so that not only in health care, not only in public workers, but all employees will be obliged by their employers to keep their jobs only if they are vaccinated. Why can't they leave people their freedom? Why can't they treat them like adults so they can make their own decisions about taking this opportunity or not taking it? The Hungarian Movement is the only party that objects to compulsory vaccination, and we do not accept that the uninoculated are treated as second-class citizens in their own country. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-10-04-200	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mihály Witzmann has applied for a post- Agenda speech from the Fidesz Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-10-04-201	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, About a week and a half ago, I had the opportunity to report on the launch of an extremely important investment to help the development of the city of Siófok, within the framework of a press conference. The topic of this information was the launch of the project of the relief road away from Siófok in the southern direction. The construction of the road in question, I can safely say, is a long-awaited and huge opportunity that can really give a new impetus to Siófok's development. Originally, the investment could have started in 2014, because the plans, the necessary permits and the state resources were already in place, but the then approved trail caused protests by the inhabitants of the small streets in the southern part of the town concerned, in my opinion it was right, as more than a hundred people in a few days' time indicated by their signature that the trail at that time was extremely unfavourable to them, as it would have put traffic on those small streets. Finally, the investment could not be launched. The next important milestone was in the next municipal cycle, in September 2017, when the body at the time, the newly elected body, the new city administration, once again took the issue on the agenda, in my opinion a much more appropriate, more favourable trail was proposed, but it should also be said that unfortunately no progress has been made with regard to the necessary plans and authorisation procedures. Knowing the importance of development and recognising it precisely, I myself have initiated and conducted a number of negotiations in the past period, and I can now say with great pleasure and certainty that we have been able to put the issue back on the agenda and launch the project in question. I am pleased to report that a number of months ago, a supportive government decision was also taken, and the funds needed for the preparatory work were transferred to National Infrastructure Development Ltd. by the government. As a result, professional preparation could begin, the draft and the environmental study plan could begin. The task of the coming months is to find an optimal solution for citizens and regular users, taking into account the needs of the population, the expectations of the local government and the professional aspects. Fortunately, two public-funded major projects can be a significant cost reduction factor in determining the path. One is the so-called sewage project, where experts believe that one of Europe's state-of-the-art waste water treatment plants has been delivered to Siófok in recent years; a section of the service route will be replaced practically in terms of the planned trail. This may be seen as a significant cost reduction factor in the project. The other factor is the complete reconstruction of the Sió-channel and the Sió-lock, which is also in progress, and within the framework of this project the Siófok-Kiliti barrier has reached more than 93 percent. This barrier has already been made statically to ensure that the Sió channel is also crossed for vehicle traffic. I would also like to point out that the project launched in 2014 will be a major social resistance development and, finally, a much more complex and leading to greater physical intervention compared to the plans that have not been implemented. The previous plans included a new Sió bridge and only a few hundred metres of relief, and the construction of them, whereas here we can talk about a complex transport development with a length of 3,5-4 kilometres, two single lanes, several nodes, a Sió bridge, a railway overpass, a bicycle road and a pedestrian road. I very much hope that this investment will indeed be a great step forward for Siófok, the Cape Siófok and those who travel there. I hope that it will make an effective contribution to reducing passenger and truck traffic across the city and will help to relieve the local road network. At our joint press conference, I asked NIF Zrt. its experts, the determining authorities and, of course, the local government of Siófok, to do everything possible to ensure swift, efficient and smooth cooperation, because our aim is obviously to make sure that there is a way out of these plans as soon as possible. Finally, I would like to thank the Cape Verdeans for their patience so far and the Government for their effective state aid, without which this investment would certainly not be possible in Siófok. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-10-04-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group, applied for a post-meeting speech from the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2021-10-04-203	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, As always, after the agenda, I am talking about the immediate problems of my narrower country, Pécs and Baranya, and I will do the same today. In particular, I must address the local critical situation related to environmental challenges and environmental destruction. In general, we can welcome what the Prime Minister Zsolt Nyitrai announced the other day that the government is launching an online consultation on green issues. And what you found to say, Commissioner Nitrai, I quote, is that the government is not only talking about the issue of environmental protection, but is doing something about it. Well, here, through concrete examples, I can disprove, through examples of Pécs and Baranya, that, unfortunately, this is not the case, and I can even say that the opposite is almost true, as the government commissioner said. I would like to start with a general example, which, I think, says a lot about the government's true commitment and, to be precise, its lack of green affairs. We have argued a lot about the fact that with an incomprehensible and outrageous legislation, the government has made the construction of wind power plants almost impossible with a provision that no wind power plants can be built within 12 kilometres of the borders of settlements. In practice, this is what we all know in the whole country has banned the exploitation of this great opportunity. Parallelly from the other side, however, it forbids the construction of wind power plants from 12 kilometres away from a nuclear cemetery, so the high-activity radioactive waste storage can be installed up to 500 metres away from the borders of a settlement by the current government. This, I think, is quite unacceptable, and perhaps you all know that our region is facing a very serious challenge, because here in Boda, a few kilometers from the western borders of Pécs, the government is planning to develop one of these, and there are huge amounts and billions of research going on right now. So we could ask the rhetorical question, if Commissioner Nitrai were right here, why this question was not included in this particular green consultation. But I think that the situation itself is perfectly capable of demonstrating how uncredited the government is in terms of green and environmental matters. We have one more question to refer to. In this particular consultation, there is such a false question that the citizens who have completed the consultation agree that the designers of illegal landfills, in Hungarian, will receive more serious penalties for these shameful acts. Well, I think, quite frankly, it's amazing that you've been ruling for 11 years, and now you've come to the point that instead of taking action, instead of solving these problems or creating a legislative environment where this task can be solved and achieved, you're still just consulting on what's perfectly clear. So, those who commit such shameful acts, contaminate territories, illegally carry out the trash without permission, and leave it very severely punished, and this government has been obstructing it for 11 years so that it can be done. [[15.00]] We have constantly tabled the legislation, they have been swept off without a substantive debate, they have not acted, they have not given the authorities the opportunity to take action on their merits, and they are now launching a consultation on this. We all remember that two years ago, in the spring of 2019, the Prime Minister personally made a promise to eliminate illegal landfills. This has not been achieved, just as in the last eleven years, and instead, we have been prevented from putting forward meaningful legislation on this issue. Unfortunately, I can tell you that Pécs and its region have been constantly confronted and are facing these challenges. In the immediate vicinity of the city's western borders, in the area of Cherkút, there is a quite amazing illegal rubber dump, and now it has been slowly fading for years. We have taken a lot of steps in this matter, thank God, it is slowly being resolved, so the problem is very difficult to resolve, but there is no evidence yet that the perpetrator of this shameful act would be held accountable and held accountable. Similarly, and this is a much sadder story, in December 2019, around Christmas, a truck from Italy has illegally planted 40 tons of plastic trash without any permission and has not been able to eliminate it since. The crime has been committed, the reports have been filed, and due to the inadequacy of the legislation, no criminal activity has been found here. I would add that they were completely inadequate on the part of the local representative and the government, and the authorities, to solve the problem, to this day, this huge pile of garbage still lingers. Another case that went through the national press was a shockingly illegal landfill in Romonya's square, which was also eliminated by joint force, but there is also a need to be accounted for. So what I can tell you is that this consultation is the same as it was before, and when green matters are important for someone, the protection of the environment is important, then we do not have to believe this kind of chamuconsultation of Fidesz, but we have to replace this government, and then we will be able to fulfil these tasks. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-04-204	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Congresswoman Tünde Szabó applied for a post- Agenda speech from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-10-04-205	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank you for the opportunity to inform you about the significant improvements that have been made in Nyíregyháza, my constituency, in recent years. In view of the timeframe, I will address cultural investment today, and, of course, I will also concern sport investment. With the renewal of the entire road and sidewalk network, our cultural district has become a real recreational area. On one side there is the Rózsakert Open Air Stage, the recently elected Jósa András Museum, and on the other side the Móricz Zsigmond Theatre, and in its neighbourhood the Szindbad and the Kállay House were completed. On the other side of the square is the Greek Catholic Museum and the St. Atanaz Study House building, and the Reformed School is expanding. The renovation of the second phase of the Kállay mansion has been completed with the support of the programme "Modern Cities" in which an exhibition, conference room, library and multifunctional space have been established. The Jósa András Museum has become richer with a new modern exhibition space, as in recent years the Seuso Treasures and Munkácsy 50, followed by the exhibition showing the work of the Ice Age and Szinyei Merse Pál. By its 50-year anniversary, the Sóstó Museum Village was renewed, which is also a tourist and cultural site, and the development of the Sostó Thermal Spa also started. Hotel Pangea Ökocentrum has been awarded an international property development award in the past year, and Hunguest Hotel Sóstó has been able to win an award. In addition, further improvements have been made in the Animal Park, as the House of India is completed and the Ice Age project is under way, which will result in a huge tourist attraction. In recent years, the sports opportunities of the Nyíregyházas have also increased significantly, as next to the ice rink they have been handed over with the training of the non-sustainable urban swimming pool, which can serve all needs from young children to school swimming and older people. The athletic center has also been completed, which can guarantee unique conditions for athletes in Europe, and will be able to serve not only athletes, but also fencers, judo players and badminton players, as well as leisure athletes. The school sports courts, the gymnasiums will be renewed. The school of Arany János High School, which was built in 75, was completely renewed and recovered. In addition, the preparation for the implementation of József Bozsik's Football Academy training centre has also begun, which will actually guarantee excellent conditions for hundreds of athletes of age. Open-air sports facilities have also been expanded, as we have been able to deliver more and more sports parks over the past period, and we have also been enriched with running circles, as well as the recortan track in Salt Lake has required complete renovation, so this is also under way, thus keeping the initiative to make healthier, more mobile lives. In addition, last year and this year Nyíregyháza won the title of the Marketing Capital of the Year, the Móricz Zsigmond Theatre was awarded the Main Prize for the Marketing Active Entrepreneurship of the Year, and the 50-year-old Skanzemügyünk. In the last year, Nyíregyházi Television has won the first place in the Local Value Awards News Competition again, as well as the local government won the Industrial Park of the Year Award, and received the Talent-Friendly Award. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank the people of Nyíregyháza for their support, without which these developments and results could not have been achieved, and we could not have achieved them, so this work will continue, for which we thank the Hungarian Government for its support and the help of the local government. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-04-206	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Csaba Nagy also came forward to speak after the agenda from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-10-04-207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, My own constituency, the 4th constituency of Baranya County, is part of the city of Sellie, the capital of the Ormans, as they say. We have been working together with the Government of Hungary since 2018 so that the settlement can respond effectively to the social and economic challenge of the region. I have gathered the development groups in which we have been able to help the city, the townspeople, and what improvements we have been able to bring to this area. In the framework of the operational programme for the development of human resources, seven applications totalled HUF 1.2 billion. With this money, this development amount, it could be spent on community programmes, school-oriented cooperation, children's programmes, school development and all the human development that the city lacked. If we go through the operational programme for territorial and urban development, then we see that the city can have significant improvements, with a total value of HUF 1.4 billion. I will try to sum up very briefly what has changed, changes in the life of the city. We considered it important that on the Bath Street, which leads to the spa, you can see from the street name 423 meters long, a bicycle band painting can take place both on the left and on the right. It was a long time ago that people who came to the bathroom were waiting for it, because it was a track road. We considered the development of the family and child protection institution in Sellyé very important. Here the whole facade was able to renew, the windows were replaced, and the attic was also insulated. We considered the renovation of the Kiss Géza Primary School and Basic Art Education Institute in Sellye to be important. Here the gym was able to renew, some of the classrooms were renovated, a new library was created at the school. The next project that we need to talk about is that in order to improve local care, service and quality of life, some HUF 200 million could be spent on rehabilitation of a so-called brownfield area. This was important, among other things, to finally open up this area to the Sellyans, so here the Youth and Batthyány street section was actually renewed; here we were able to set up an important road for bikes, and we were able to open the area for pedestrian traffic, and perhaps, most importantly, we were able to create a home for young people, as we could open a gym and fitness room in the last few weeks. [[15.10]] I also consider it important that the market was able to be renewed, worth some 150 million forints. We had to move here so that the settlements in the Selye area and the Sellyans could sell the goods they were producing here. From an economic point of view, this step was very important, because it was also justified by the fact that there is a market in Sellye no longer on the same day, but on two days. I also consider it important to renovate kindergarten, nursery and kitchen. For both the school and the kindergarten, the child's meal could not be resolved, so the children had a quarter - hour walk every noon to eat lunch. Now it's gone, and they can host them in a whole new building for lunch. I also think it is very important that the cradle has been expanded, and instead of the mini-cradle, a normal nursery can now receive children who need to come here, as many people have now been able to work in Sellyen and Sellye. The family and child protection centre was able to renew, and we mentioned this earlier, because it is very important that children's care can now be completed in a fully renovated infrastructure from nursery to school. A total of 110 million HUF has been sent to the village under three programmes. And what I would very much like to say is that all these programmes could be complemented by the Ministry of Interior's programme. There used to be a cheese factory in this village where Anikó was also produced. Now, with a completely new development, we can create 15 jobs, also serving the development of the city. I think that all these developments will also enable the development of the economy, and will also allow the city to continue to develop. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-10-04-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied for a speech from the Jobbik Group after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-10-04-209	Mr President, Dear House, Although the last few weeks and months were spent with an actual political rally, I did some homework with my colleagues, and in the midst of Viktor Orbán's production reports, we looked at the amount of money, more precisely, the minimum wage in the European Union. And while we found that this summer there was a 1 percent increase in the Hungarian minimum wage of 167 thousand forints, some say that because of a lack of resources, some say that for structural reasons, it is a good magic word, and not only could one or another of the neighbouring countries prevent us, but we can see that we are among the rush drivers. We don't expect big things. We are not looking for a minimum wage equal to HUF 606 000 in the Netherlands; we are not looking for the Spanish level, which comes out to HUF 398 800 if the amount of EUR there is converted at the current shameful rate, but we are not even asking for the Greek HUF 272 thousand on the government, but we are asking for a decent minimum wage and wage level that is constantly close to the European average. The European average is part of the statistics of Bulgaria and Kosovo, so we do not demand German standards, we demand only as much as is permissible in the Hungarian economy, in the light of, say, the volume of profits generated here by multi-enterprises and pumped out from here. And the Hungarian reality comes to light, the reality of the statistics comes up, when we see, based on another statement by Bank360, that the Hungarian minimum wage and the Hungarian median wage have to work extremely hard to get their own home, but the fact is that by examining the Hungarian gross median wage, about this is what most people in Hungary have to work for 30 years for the price of a property in Budapest. Fidesz family policy is aimed at a family model of at least three children, and I can easily identify with it. I wish they could support the birth of the first child, the second child's commitment, not just the creation of an idealized and imaginary family model. But for a family this size, it's definitely an apartment of between 60 and 100 square meters or even a house that would provide a normal, livable, comfortable space. And what we can see from the statistics is that according to KSH data, the gross median wage amounted to HUF 335 780 in July. This is when we swallow a big one and imagine the Szabolcs-szatmár-Bereg forum, where we say all this, and the hands are needed on different pieces of furniture, because they see that the real Hungarian average is terribly far away from it. But we also see that even in the case of a net wage of HUF 223 thousand in Budapest, if we imagine and accept this wage, it is still 29 years and 4 months to wait and crouch to get together for the said home, so that one has not spent anything else, fed, clothed, managed everyday expenses of his family. And if we go to Hungary in the countryside, we can see that there are even some of the county seats where it takes 17 years to get the property out of the median wage, and I'll say it again, so that you don't spend anything else on your salary. It can therefore be seen that the housing crisis is forcing Hungarian workers abroad, delaying or removing childbearing plans in their entirety, and putting a permanent, vulnerable position on the part of a Hungarian worker whose humiliatingly low wage even needs to be churned out for housing, in the form of a brutally expensive rent. Our proposal is clear: with the pay union concept, we need to address the slow approximation of wages rather than the Western European average to the European average, so we have put down a viable concept. In addition, the rental housing and housing program, Our Castle, is able to increase the supply side of the housing stock by leading to a decrease in prices and, instead of the current market rents, it can bring the acquisition of a self-contained home to the masses of Hungarians. If we can only put a few thousand families to safety every year, and they do not choose emigration as a coercion, if the desired Hungarian child is not born and socialized in Benelux states or Germany, but here in Hungary, we have done a great deal for the Hungarian future, which, I think, should be extremely important for all of us. In addition to the actual political sword rallyings, we in the Jobbik faction and in Peter James's welfare program do have time, space, energy to see these decades of horizons, because this is how we can serve our country and our constituents. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-10-04-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the agenda, Mr Zoltán Magyar has also applied for a speech from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-10-04-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I asked for the floor today because I would like to thank everyone for making it possible to carry out the pre-elections. I would like to thank the voters who in Mosonmagyaróvár, Jánossomorj, Lébény and in 36 other settlements, including the entire Szigetköz and most of the Tóköz, decided to entrust me with the task of defeating the candidate of power in spring. I would like to thank the many activists who, sacrificing their own free time, have spent the last few weeks helping to carry out the pre-election, and either in rain or in bad weather and wind, and indeed, because we are talking about the Mosoni plain, the wind is always blowing here, so they were in the tents under these conditions, and this whole process has been worked through. I would like to thank my own party and all the opposition parties for putting everything, all the energy in it, even in the midst of limited opportunities, so that this story can end in such a way that we can ultimately account for a success and then stand up to the Fides with the right forces and the right candidates in the spring. But I also want to thank the civilians for their help. They put a lot of energy into it, too. I can only say in relation to my own constituency that it would have been very difficult to conduct this without them, even though the circumstances were absolutely not in our favor. I am not only thinking that the state has ignored the fact that opposition pre-elections are taking place, but it has even crossed me wherever it can. At our county daily, Kisalföld, for example, a separate meeting was called to tell journalists in advance that the word "pre-election" cannot be described either on the newspaper's columns or on its online surface. So we are talking about an event where a large proportion of the opposition voters participated, 640 thousand people voted in this pre-election, yet the county daily, which was partly held with public money, could not report this in advance, in any form. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that many times the course did not favour increasing participation, because I know, for example, from my constituency, of a mayor who was stalking, sent out people to observe who dared to go to the tents. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame!]] And who dares to cast his vote. [[15.20]] I don't think a mayor could sink any lower. So there are records of this, too, and we know that. As well as trying to make the pre-election as difficult as possible at national level. I would also like to thank my opponent, Endre Balázs, for his contribution, for the fight. I think we have set an example of how the fight for the favors of the electorate should work in a normal democracy, because, while we were doing everything we could, both our activists and our helpers were involved in the fight, we considered each other as partners, and we considered it the most important thing that this pre-election should succeed. So we can only thank him and his team. The real struggle is now starting, because the real value and strength of the entire opposition pre-election was to find the most suitable 106 candidates in our country, and then in spring we can win as challengers of Fidesz and set up a new, decent government. We've been through a very difficult time, but it's only gonna be harder. I am aware of this, and the campaign team is aware of it, which now consists of the supporters of all six opposition parties. As soon as I've met them in the last few weeks, I can assure you that this struggle, however difficult it will be, will be a success. I urge all those involved here, in the constituency and across Hungary to do not only that they want to go and vote for the change of government, but also to take part in the work, I urge them to do so, as those who are now involved in this kind of activity during the pre-elections, or who want to do the job in the tents, all of them later reported that they were one of the happiest periods of their life. So go ahead, and thank you all again.
u2021-10-04-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. He also spoke after the agenda from the Jobbik Group, Ms Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2021-10-04-213	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We made history. When we asked you to take part in the primary, we secretly hoped that maybe half a million people would think that they would not express their opinion on Facebook, social media, but would go and put down the ick for the man they thought was the best candidate in that constituency to defeat the challenger of Fidesz in spring 2022. Above all expectations, 633 711 people rose from the chair, went and voted. Thank you very much. And thank you to the people who voted for me in the Somogy 4th constituency. There were nearly 5,000 of you. Thank you very much. As I have done so far, I intend to bring the problems of the Somogy 4th Constituencies to Parliament, and I trust that in spring 2022 I will be able to do more for you as individual Members of Parliament. For you and, of course, for Balaton, for the country Hungary, and for the nearly eighty-two thousand people who live in this 71 settlements. I would very much like to thank the activists and volunteers who have given their free time for being in the tents. They were there when they had to carry the flyers, because you, on the basis of Fidesz outsourcing, withdrew the right from the post office to deliver our leaflets and newspapers to the Hungarian people. They cannot make such an obstacle for us, because this election, which will be waiting for us in 2022, can also be won with feet. Believe me, believe me, we have that power, and we have that network that will get us to everyone. And not the way you're doing this Stop Christmas, stop Gyurcsány. You're lying about all kinds of numbers. No. Here, 633 711 people have gone to vote. Thank you very much to my family, who held on and kept my spirits up, and said that, yes, we will succeed together. The power of this cooperation begins when the family is fully supportive. I would like to thank my tight campaign team, who have worked day and night to work together, together, to succeed in the primary election in the Somogy 4th Constituencies. I would like to thank my competition, Dr. Miklós Kovács, for the fair and clean campaign that he conducted during the primary. I think that this is how we have shown everyone that it is possible to win, that this is how we can compete, and, yes, together we can succeed in our common cause. And that's what the focus is: our common cause. Here comes the next round. The second round will be held on Sunday, 10th, where three candidates will be waiting for the votes. I urge everyone, let this be a second celebration of democracy, the more people leave the country, because then we opposition politicians can get a real mandate, legitimacy, and face state power in 2022. And good news. Now you don't have to live in that constituency, the settlement where the ballot box is, you can cast your vote anywhere. I'd like to ask you to leave. Not 633 thousand, let's be a million, because only then and only then can we succeed. The more people left, the more authority we have. This is what we are asking of you now, because in 2022 we will have the great battle, and together we will march together. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-10-04-214	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Member László Varju of the DK Group has applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-10-04-215	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Today, I have had the opportunity to speak several times against an outrageous government resolution, which the government has filled only the municipalities under Fidesz leadership with billions of forints, while we all know that these billions have, by the way, turned into urizing watches, free yachts, free jets, while the legitimate needs of the opposition-led districts have otherwise been rejected. I would like to highlight this immeasurable injustice through a direct example in Újpest, and this is the question of the road to Székesdő which has already emerged in the debate with the Secretary of State. This area is only so that we can all place the northernmost part of Budapest in the IV. in the district, around the Pest bridge of the Megyeri bridge, beyond that, and the debate is about the provision of this area. I would like to remind everyone and, by the way, I quote from the press that when a man who has been living in the area for 28 years, the problem that had been answered by the former municipality led by Zsolt Wintermantel, I quote from the mouth of the mayor of that time - :.: It is also apparent from the style and wording of the author that he is not our friend, in the sense that he has a problem with the road network in Székesdűlő. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and Gentlemen, It's obvious that anyone who disagrees with the Fidesz mayor must be an enemy and his word is ignored in that sense. After that, he followed the government's course, because there was a scandal and this statement was made just by rejecting it in this sense. To save what can be saved, a contract was concluded or a decision was made to conclude the contract until 30 November 2019, i.e. at the same time as the municipal elections, one month after that. Of course, after Fidesz lost this election, this contract was forgotten. How did they forget about it? By not having the plans under the contract either ordered or prepared, so the necessary conditions were not available for the conclusion of this contract for the municipality which would otherwise be coming. That is why I say again that they promised and deceived people, and that is why they have lost the opportunity for those living in the area to have the opportunity to do so at the time. [[15.30]] By the way, the new municipality has not given up the fight, since it has ordered or ordered the plans for this, which applies both to the reconstruction of the Vadroszó street plumbing, to the replacement of the gas pipeline and to what else is needed. However, despite the fact that these plans are in place, and here, I could say that the Prime Minister's Office has taken the municipality out of the possibility, because, by the way, the request for renewal has been rejected, and therefore I say that Mr Secretary of State's unprepared reply was indeed arrogant and unacceptable what he said in this respect. The road development in Székesdűlő will be continued in this sense by the Municipality of Újpest. But this could have been, this was the opportunity, this government decision, which I was criticizing, in this context, to re-source it, if the intention had been real, otherwise this would have been done. But that's not what happened. It was rejected again. That is why I would like to draw attention to the fact that fidescence coming from a government position does not lead to anything and the damage that comes from it is seen by those living there. This is the concrete example through which I wanted to show you that the unilateral political and political decision concerns all people, and while the government should feel responsible for Hungarian citizens in this country, it does not do so. I continue to ask that you do not interfere with the process in which you can help Újpest. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2021-10-04-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr László Hajdu also came forward after the agenda from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-10-04-217	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Where does Viktor Orbán's hand lean? I gave an address to my comment. There is a proverb that says that every saint's hand is leaning toward himself. I think that, as a reformed Prime Minister, the Prime Minister is probably not going to take over this, because the Reformed people do not have idols, so they are saints, so he cannot touch himself in this sense, except in the case of something else. I thought I should speak out because we are talking about the municipalities, the municipalities, the metropolitan districts, the local government, the capital, and all major municipalities with county rights, where the majority of the board is not pro-government, i.e. the so-called opposition authorities, although there is no opposition settlement, but in this practice, there is one in the practice of government. When we have heard several times here today in the answers of the secretary-general that the left always starts with austerity, I would like to start with what the Orbán government started with, so where did that particular hand go? From 2016 onwards, the local government, all local authorities, and 3180 were removed from the country's remaining part of the personal income tax, which has always been appropriate for municipalities since the change of regime. This source was immediately removed from the municipalities, so there is no personal income tax. Gradually, they took it away, and a hundred percent now there is no vehicle tax, which is extremely important. So it's also a restriction; it can be given another name, but it's also taken from us, this face. So we didn't squeeze the population directly, but we took it through the municipality, after all, we hit the population living there. The same problem appears for VAT raised by 27 percent. The municipalities cannot work without an invoice, so in the case of municipalities, the sum of HUF 4-5 billion from the budget is that of a district municipality, which we repay as VAT to the Hungarian State. The increased part of that is a very significant restriction, I think. As such, I should consider that when nationalised schools were taken from the municipalities 32 years ago, a great deal of public money and public self-esteem were taken from built-in schools and nationalised with children, teachers, so, in the case of schools nationalised without consulting the local government, their money and wealth were essentially taken away from the municipalities, but a new tax was also introduced. The name of the new tax is a solidarity contribution, the tax in essence, which is rising annually, and now it is a billion-dollar scale for a district in Budapest and a total of 10 billion-dollar scale for Budapest. Also withdrawal or sac, or whatever you might call it, in Hungarian, the pressure of the seed, so our hands, which are inclined somewhere, are again for this money. I would also like to mention that there is a special support, a special normative, this Orbán normative, which supports districts that are pro-government majority. In the current issue of the Hungarian Gazette, in the 173rd issue, it was published that they received HUF 15 billion in support in Budapest, in one public administration city eight district municipalities received HUF 15 billion in support. There was no tender, no specific goal has been set, they received a grant that the capital can't receive, although there is a HUF 6 billion grant for the reconstruction of the Chain Bridge, until today the capital has not received any support and the districts have not received any support. But they were given direct, let's say, bypassing the capital city from the government to the pro-government districts. I believe that there is a need for a change of government and that the government led by Dobrev Klára, I believe, will support these municipalities in a normative way, regardless of political affiliation. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2021-10-04-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Zoltán Varga has also applied for a post-meeting speech from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-10-04-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, If there is anything to show the success of the opposition pre-election, it is the panic that you can see from the fidesz benches, that for the first time in many years there have been Fidesz MEPs among the speakers after the agenda and tell you their own victory reports, obviously from their own district. If someone is listening to this, then it turns out that it's enough to be born into a fidesz city, because there's money lying there and there's a fence made of sausage. There is no other way in Debrecen, as we hear the same lie from the representatives of Debrecen and the mayor of Debrecen himself. There is no doubt that some money is coming for kissing investments, but the facts are stubborn because it turns out that the Fidesz cities and the city of Debrecen, including Debrecen, are in fact in exactly the same difficult situation as the government's constraints on the municipalities as the opposition cities. The only difference is that the Fidesz glove puppets, the city leaders, the leaders of the Fidesz cities have to make a good face. And what do the government's parliamentary representatives, those who work or work in fidesz cities, really do? Obviously, they're not protecting the interests of the city dwellers. We can also see this in the case of Debrecen, as Lajos Kósa and his fellow Members with fidesz, instead of lobbying in Parliament for the interests of the inhabitants of Debrecen, instead of saving the Ciuc Beer, and the new business of Lajos Kósa, the pensioner or recently the mother-cooperatives, are proposing laws. However, there would be something to be done, just because Debrecen's general meeting had been discussed recently, among other things, by DKV Zrt. his report. Anyone who doesn't know Debrecen, I'll tell you this is the company that provides public transport in the city of Debrecen. As the report has shown, the company that has already supported several billion forints of municipal loss compensation per year could only account for another record loss in the last year, thereby increasing its already catastrophic losses by another half a billion forints. [[15.40]] DKV is forced to take up another loan, with its loans worth another HUF 8 billion. Thus, the company's loan portfolio is now more than HUF 20 billion, for which, of course, if it is natural, this municipality in Debrecen will guarantee. Of course, László Papp, mayor of Debrecen Fideszes Party Paratcsik, is still almost a success in the general assembly, and then, in the debate of the proposal, he admits that the financing of urban public transport and compensation for increasing losses are slowly crushing the city. This was one of the rare moments, House, when the Fidesz majority of the Debrecen general assembly and the opposition unanimously stated that without significant government help, the city of Debrecen will be unable to finance the increasing losses of the transport company for a long time, as public transport in its present form is impossible to operate in our long-term city. And in order to avoid total bankruptcy, they can only use government help. This is what the city of Debrecen would expect, but the help doesn't even exist at the promised level. Probably neither Kósa nor Pósán representatives, the salvations of Fidesz in Debrecen, indicated to the government how much trouble the city is in. And instead of helping local governments, including Debrecent, the government is organizing a 100 billion-dollar world hunting exhibition, where among other things, young students from Debrecen are raised, ordered to look at organic decorations and stuffed corpses of killed animals. But no problem, in just a few days, in a few months, Hungary's first female prime minister will form a government, and his government will put an end to the madness of Orbán around us, and will help, among other things, the municipalities. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2021-10-04-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ádám Steinmetz of the Jobbik Group has also applied for a post-meeting speech. I'll wait for Congressman to put the microphone on. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-10-04-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The stakes of the parliamentary election due next spring will not only be the change of government. With the cooperation of opposition parties seeking a change of government, Fidesz loses two thirds of the extremely comfortable parliamentary position, with which it can do anything without compromise, following the 2022 election. They are aware of this, so it is no coincidence that by a two-thirds vote they will amend the Fundamental Law, the electoral law and other fundamental laws they have previously created and otherwise called granite-solid. This is done to make it difficult for the current opposition to win, and, on the other hand, to keep them in power and position even if they lose government, to occupy the areas of the civil sector, not to mention sports, culture and education. They make laws that, even if they fail the 2022 election, they control higher education, they have the thousand billion-dollar wealth of our universities, and they determine the spirit in which our children will be taught in the future. Meanwhile, they have a significant part of the press, the media authority supervising it, the prosecutor's office, the Constitutional Court, interest organisations and the management of significant public bodies. So what is the increased stake in the 2022 election? I have said several times that it is not the change of government, nor the change of regime, but the creation of a normal functioning Hungary. However, there will be few simple majority in Parliament, which will require a qualified majority, i.e. a two-thirds victory in 2022. The key to this is to win the joint candidates of those who want to change governments in single-member constituencies. That is why it was important to find the most popular and most suitable candidates in the country's 106 constituencies over the last few weeks, during the pre-election process, who will be able to fight and defeat the Fidesz MEPs next year. I would also like to thank, with great respect, some 3,500 proud Somogy citizens who participated in the primary elections in my constituency, voted for the candidates for Prime Minister and voted for the candidate, without competition. So they felt it was important that they still cast their vote, which is a great honor for me, and I will exercise their trust, and I will repay their trust. And, my fellow countrymen, let us not forget: Fidesz can manage the country with less than 50 percent social support thanks to its electoral rights system. So if our individual candidates are good and successful in most of the constituencies, then we can do that. I believe that we can succeed together, but only together, because, as you know, together we are strength and weakness. Thank you for listening.
u2021-10-04-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is scheduled to take place on 18 October 2021. I now thank you for your work, the meeting is closed, and I wish you all a good night. Goodbye.
