u2021-09-20-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, Day 1 of the autumn session of the House is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Ádám Steinmetz. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that four of our former fellow Members have passed away in the past. Sándor Orosz, former politician of the MSZP, obtained his mandate at the parliamentary elections in 1994 in the 3rd constituency of Budapest, and until 2010, he was the party's parliamentary representative for four cycles. During his term of office, the Committee on Agriculture was also chairman and vice-president of the Committee on the Environment. In addition to his representativeship, he worked as a lawyer and, as an expert in agriculture, he had a lifelong link to agriculture. He passed away 65 years of his life. Mihály Ráday obtained his mandate at the first free parliamentary elections after the change of regime, the regional list of the SZDSZ Baranya county, and he was the party's parliamentary representative for a period of time. Under his mandate, he was a member of the Environment Committee and vice-president until 1991. He was a member of the Metropolitan Assembly from 1990 to 2002, where he played a major role in the development of monument protection and the organisation of several monument conservation projects. In 2009, he was awarded the middle cross of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary, and in 2021 he was awarded the title "Citizen of Budapest." In addition to his political and public activities, he worked as a cameraman, television director and editor, his work was recognized with the greatest professional awards, Béla Balázs Prize, Kossuth Prize and Mihály Táncsics Prize. He died in 79 years of his life. Valéria Fogarasiné Deák was a member of the Parliament for two cycles from 2002 to 2010. He obtained his mandate from the regional list of MSZP Pest county and later in the 4th single mandate district of Pest county. Under his mandate, he was Chairman of the Committee of Social Organisations, Vice-President of the Human Rights Committee and member of the Employment and Labour Committee. Earlier, in the 1994 municipal elections, he was included in the General Assembly of the Pest County Municipality, where he was Deputy Head of the MSZP faction, and from 1998 he was the leader of the faction and founder of the MSZP Women's Group. He died in the 68th year of his life. Iván Vitányi was a member of the Parliament for six cycles from 1990 to 2014. Until 2011, he was a member of the MSZP faction and subsequently politicalised as an independent representative. In 1990 and 2010 he obtained his mandate from the national list of MSZP, in 1994 and 1998 in Budapest's constituency No. 7 and in 2002 and 2006 from the party's regional list in Budapest. Under his mandate, he was Chairman of the Committee on Culture and member of the Committee on European Integration Affairs. In 1989 he was one of the founding members of the Hungarian Socialist Party, president of the national election between 1990 and 1996. Between 1993 and 1995, he was a spokesperson for the Democratic Charter. In 2010 he joined the Democratic Coalition, in 2011 he became the eternal honorary president of the party. He died in the 96th year of his life. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our fellow Members. [[The people in this room stand up and pay tribute to the dead.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Here are the comments before the agenda. But before I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, who was the first to speak, please allow me, on behalf of all of us, to welcome back to the Chamber our fellow Member Gábor Bányai. His presence here is also evidence that when there is no hope from a medical point of view, there is still something else that we can cling to. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2021-09-20-1	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, According to our constitutional customs, I will provide Parliament with information on the important developments that have taken place since our last meeting, first of all, on the epidemic situation. Thanks to the successful vaccination program, this year the Hungarian people again had a free and safe summer. [[13.10]] We have implemented not only one of the fastest vaccination programmes in Europe but also worldwide. This is why we have been able to get rid of the epidemiological restrictions sooner than others, and we have put the economy back on its feet faster. Thanks to the vaccinations, our streets and squares have been filled with life again. The vaccine has enabled us to open shops, visit family members, or go on vacation. The vaccine allowed our children to return to school, to go back to work, to live their normal, normal lives. Dear House, The plague will have a fourth wave. In addition to data from many European countries, this is what our numbers suggest. With three epidemic waves behind us, we know what works against the virus, and what is not: restrictions, masking are not enough, it cannot be overcome, but it is not even able to control this virus. It's a virus that only the vaccine works against. We beat the third wave with the vaccine, and that's how we control the fourth wave. If enough people are vaccinated, we don't have to go back to closings, using masks, but we can stay in our normal, normal lives. We can only protect our lives and our freedom through vaccinations, so I recommend continuing vaccination-based protection in the future. Two vaccines are already available, but experts strongly recommend the third. The third vaccine, as we know today, is better to have than not to have; it will definitely be more protected than not to have. For the first time in Europe, Hungary has made it possible to take a third vaccine. By now, 525,000 of our compatriots have taken the third shot. I would like to inform the National Assembly that there are currently 7 986 132 doses of vaccine in Hungary, and an additional 8 million 900 thousand vaccines are expected to be delivered by the end of the year, so we can put out nearly 17 million doses of vaccine by the end of December if necessary. So we have enough vaccines, we can inoculate anyone, whether it's a first, second or third vaccine. The vast majority of Hungarians are vaccinated, so they are safe, the others should act. I'm gonna need all of you to take the shots from this place, too. Those who are not vaccinated risk serious illness, hospital, and even life - threatening. The disease is life-threatening, but the vaccine is definitely working. So during the summer we prepared for the fourth wave: there is enough vaccine, medicine and hospital capacity. The government proposes to extend the Parliament until the end of the year of emergency and extraordinary legal order. The extraordinary legal order is proven, it helps to control the epidemic, it is necessary to maintain the country's capacity for action throughout the epidemic. Dear Parliament, The vaccination works, Hungary works as well as the latest economic facts show. The Hungarian economy started flying: according to the second quarter data, gross domestic product increased by 17.9 percent, which is the largest growth ever measured. The performance of the Hungarian economy and this truly important one is already beyond the pre-p pandemic level, while in most EU countries it is still necessary to wait. The strength of economic re-launch is well demonstrated by the 21 percent increase in exports of services in euro in the second quarter of the year, with 10.8% increase in investments, 16 percent increase in external trade and 10.2 percent increase in industry compared to the same period in the previous year. Today, I see that the government will be able to increase economic growth to over 5.5 percent this year. The government's economic recovery measures work, so if there is no major accident for the rest of the year, we can rise above the growth level of 5.5 percent. [[13.20]] At the time of the outbreak, the government agreed to create at least as many jobs as the epidemic destroyed. I respectfully report to my fellow Members that we have fulfilled our commitment. In July, the number of people employed exceeded 4 million 700,000. Never before has so many people worked in Hungary after the change of regime. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] In 11 years nearly 1 million new jobs have been created, the unemployment rate has fallen back below 4 percent, we are one step away from full employment, and I see that the economy is now in a more labour shortage. At the time of the outbreak, the government immediately launched an investment promotion programme worth HUF 1700 billion, thus protecting 270 000 jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of Hungary launched a national consultation in June. This was also the case for the constitution, migration, the protection of families and the Crown Virus. We have now launched the consultation because the epidemic will have far-reaching consequences not only in Hungary but throughout the world. We live in the age of danger, new epidemics and migrations threaten our daily lives, and we Hungarians must also adapt. The consultation was about how. We received 1 million 423,000 responses, thanks to everyone who participated in the national consultation. The results are clear, more than 90 percent of respondents agreed to increase the minimum wage to HUF 200,000, supported the tax reimbursement of families raising children, agreed on the constitutional protection of family support and low taxes on work, and supported the extension of the credit moratorium. The consultation obliges the government to make decisions. The first decision has already been made, and we have extended the credit moratorium for those in need. Retirementes, children's educators, unemployed, public workers and those whose family income has fallen during the epidemic are considered to be in need. Among the businesses, they can take advantage of the extension of the credit moratorium, where the income of the company decreased by 25 percent during the epidemic. Dear House, The successful relaunch of the economy will enable Parliament and the government to achieve the goals set before the fourth wave. We will refund it until 15 February 2022 because we can refund the personal income tax they paid to parents raising children in 2021. The ceiling for repayment will be the annual tax content of the average wage for 2021. Small entrepreneurs with children will also benefit from a tax refund. According to eho, parents who pay taxes will receive back the amount they pay as a personal income tax, small businesses paying reduced flat-rate taxes, and small businesses receiving one-quarter of the flat-rate tax they pay if they raise children. Overall, the tax office will reimburse HUF 600 billion to 1 million 900 thousand parents in February 2022. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] This year, pensioners will receive another addition due to inflation. The results of economic growth will also benefit pensioners; this is fair. The expected amount of the pension premium, according to today's experts, will exceed HUF 50,000. In February 2022 we will continue to rebuild the 13th month pension. Next February we can pay at least two weeks' pensions to all Hungarian pensioners. The Gyurcsány-Bajnai government's last, unresolved mistake was to take away the 13th month's pension. The government is committed and the 13th month pension will be returned as soon as possible. At the beginning of 2022, we will pay six months' arms money to professional sworn members of armed and law enforcement organisations. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] With effect from 1 January 2022, we will introduce the sja-freeness of working young people under the age of 25. I would like to inform this House that there are negotiations with employers and employees. The aim of the trial is to raise the minimum wage to HUF 200,000. As the negotiations stand now, I can tell you that there is a good chance of an agreement. I would also like to inform this House that, in accordance with the national consultation, the government wants to give constitutional protection to family support, lower taxes on work and pensions. Dear Parliament, Mr President, At the end of the summer, the mission of the United States of America and NATO in Afghanistan was completed. Hungary participated in the Afghan mission at the request of the United States of America, and now we are leaving with them at the request of the United States. The international community has adopted and participated in the implementation of the U.S. Exodus Agenda. It has been shown in hindsight that the United States misjudged the situation in Afghanistan on a number of issues and caused a serious emergency by its decision. The task of the Hungarian Defence Forces was only and exclusively to rescue the Afghans who helped their own citizens and our work there, to help their allies to rescue the soldiers and civilians who served there. Their mission has been successfully accomplished by our soldiers, and they should be appreciated. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The danger, however, has not passed. The Afghan crisis can trigger a new wave of migrants. That's what's happening today, and it's hanging by a thread. Hungary's position is clear: Afghans leaving their country must be kept in the region and must not be brought to Europe. Hotspots and refugee camps must be set up not within European borders, but outside them, and help must be brought there, and not to bring trouble to Europe. Dear House, We also need to strengthen Hungarian borders. Those who get out of the region are trying to enter the European Union through Hungary. In recent weeks, the Balkan migrant route has been refilled. The entry of migrants will continue to be supported by Soros NGOs with money and organizational assistance, no illusions, and they will also support it. The signs are clear. Until mid-September last year, we took down 22,000 trespassers, 73 617 so far, and 719 smugglers have been caught this year. This means that the number of border offenders and smugglers has tripled in one year. The trend is clear, it is not worth rocking ourselves in illusions. Although it is not unusual, it remains shameful that, while our police and soldiers protect the safety, well-being and comfort of the interior of Europe, they shoot Hungary in the back from Brussels and Berlin, and attack Hungary in the back, they launch new procedures against the Hungarian laws that provide border closure. [[13.30]] The Hungarian government will not allow it on this issue, despite all political pressure, we will defend Hungary's borders against illegal immigration. In my view, what Brussels is doing today is betraying the peace and security of Hungary and even of Europe. If the governments of the countries living in the comfort of Europe wish, we will allow migrants to move to Germany, just as in 2015 we met the request of Chancellor Angela Merkel and Austrian Chancellor Faymann. Ladies and Gentlemen, The renewed debate on migration is disrupting the unity of the European Union, and the differences of views are insurmountable. For this reason, in order to preserve European unity, we propose that Brussels return all the powers relating to migration to the Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the Parliament that the Brussels Commission has attacked Hungary over the last few weeks because of the Child Protection Act. They attack laws that do not allow sexual propaganda in kindergartens, schools, televisions, and advertising. We have been formally called upon to amend the law on public education, the media and advertising. Their demands are absurd and contradict the Hungarian public opinion that only parents can determine the sexual education of children. The government's position is clear and rock solid: we do not allow any sexual propaganda towards children. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] The final word on this issue will be spoken by the Hungarian people in the referendum on child protection. All democratically emotional people are shocked and even outraged that Brussels does not want to hear people's opinions and does not want to respect them. He does not wait for the result of the referendum, but he is already blackmailing, threatening to sue, and he wants to force his own opinion on Hungary, which no one has ever given him permission to do. I remind you that migration and child protection have been decided or decided by the people here. In Brussels, in the pro-migration and LGBTQ countries, this has never been done, not by the people, but by the elite. That is why we say that in the case of democracy and the rule of law, they should bravely sweep their own porters. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Mr. Speaker, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform this House that we are negotiating with the European Commission on Hungary's part of the European recovery credit fund. Nineteen countries have already agreed, not yet with eight countries. This is worrying, since some countries received their share in June and others still do not. This is a serious violation of the principle of fair competition on which the whole Union rests. Hungary is interested in strengthening the European Union, which is why it demands that the Commission abandons its policy of discrimination between Member States, which is a serious threat to the economic foundations of the Union. Due to Brussels' unconventional, partial and professionally flawed policy, Hungary cannot be put at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis other EU countries, so the Hungarian Government will advance and launch the funding of programmes to restore the economy. The necessary funds have already been provided by the Hungarian budget and the international financial market. Dear House, Mr President, I would like to inform you that the Hungarian National Bank has increased Hungary's gold reserve from 3.1 to 94.5 tonnes, an increase of more than 30 times. Hungary has reached the top third of the international ranking in terms of the size of the gold reserve, with the highest reserves per capita in the Central European region. Dear House, We have also taken important decisions for the country's energy security. As you know, Russia's role in gas supply in Europe is increasing, the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline has been completed, the United States has approved the German-Russian agreement, and, as the Americans have done, Hungary has immediately concluded its long-term gas purchase agreement with Russia. The new Hungarian-Russian gas supply contract will enter into force on 1 October and will be valid for 15 years. It provides security of supply, because the annual amount of gas arrives on two routes, through Austria and Serbia, we can avoid uncertain Ukraine. Provides the necessary quantity, 4.5 billion cubic metres a year. The agreement will enable the results of the retail reduction to be preserved, and we will be able to maintain reduced overhead prices in the long term with the help of the contract. Mr President, Dear House, Finally, we are looking at a shift between global power centres and the vulnerability of the international economic system is becoming increasingly evident. The era of low international interest rates and cheap money is coming to an end, and there are increasingly fierce economic and political views in international politics, and we also have another wave of epidemics and migration. These are no longer phenomena far from us; if we do not pay attention, if we are not prepared, they can turn our peaceful daily life upside down overnight. The government considers that, in this situation of uncertainty, the supreme representation of national interests for successful countries is the most important guiding principle. If we stray from this path, we will immediately return to the camp of unsuccessful countries, where we were before 2010. Therefore, the government will continue to ask for your support. Thank you, if you continue to support the government's policy, continue to be Hungary first! Thank you very much for your attention. [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-09-20-2	Dear House, After the Prime Minister's speech exceeded 20 minutes, the factions have the opportunity to respond in eight or eight minutes. The first word is Ferenc Gyurcsány.
u2021-09-20-3	If a government is not concerned with the fate of the country, but with the demons it creates, then this country will begin to deteriorate. This is what I see about Hungary and the Hungarian government. The country or government is fighting like a demon with a 91-year-old man. Hearing the Prime Minister's speech, it is quite obvious that the Prime Minister continues to fight as a demon with men in suits and ladies in costumes in Brussels, fighting as a demon with a representative named Gyurcsány, and, as I see it, he has recently fought as a demon with hundreds of thousands who do not want more than to say that we want to love freely, because we believe that freedom of love belongs to us; the Prime Minister does not see it that way, he demonizes them. [[13.40]] You can fight demons, but that's not gonna make the country rise. You can say he's a brave man who struggles, but this courage for me, it's about the courage of the tough lads of the village farewells. [[Nacsa Lawrence, said James! Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] who are capable of ruining the village's life, but not [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I want them to be respected. In fact, the courage behind these bats, these lads, is a fatal lack of self-confidence, a kind of isolation in their own world, and fear of facing a more colorful, complex, multifaceted world than theirs. They want to run away, but because they can't escape, they're going to tie up the environment with the heads of government or even the village's thug. [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Such a Prime Minister does not unite the nation, but pulls behind his own, because it is the only place he feels safe. Such a Prime Minister has Party Secretary mentality [[Interjections, clarity, and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] Because he doesn't really represent the nation, his country, but only his own party. Such a Prime Minister will always be incompetent to unite his nation, because he cannot accept it as the village thugs, that the country, the country, the village and the city, is diverse, he is afraid of it. It is the power of the man who came from the countryside, who can fight on the ground, which can be valued to a point of course. We believe that this mentality, in fact, threatens the country, and that it will bring Hungary to the edge of the western world, just as the troublemakers will sooner or later find themselves on the verge of village weddings and village farewells. In fact, we do not want such people for the village, the city, the country's leaders. Those who are struggling with the demon must not be leaders, but should be helped; I would also recommend expert help to the Prime Minister to overcome the sense of danger caused by the demons, the complex of inferiority, the fears of which he constantly leads Hungary to war because of fears. Hungary does not want war, Hungary wants peace [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] And if you are curious about the opinion of the Hungarian people, because you think they are the most important, and if the Hungarian people need to be asked in a referendum on important matters, then let us ask the question: why didn't you ask them how they wanted the Fundamental Law they forced on us? Believe me, the Hungarians would answer to this day that they do not want that Fundamental Law, but you are not brave enough to put this Fundamental Law into a referendum. If you think it's necessary to ask people, then you asked people how they wanted to expand Paks, they wanted Paks II. Or he basically went to Moscow secretly and came home two days later and announced that there would be a Paks II.? Did you have the courage to ask the country, the nation, the people? No, it wasn't. [[A statement from the ruling parties: Yes, you can.]] You were a coward to him because you knew the Hungarians wouldn't have voted for him. Did he ask the Hungarians to want Fudan University, they want us to use it to expand and establish a Chinese university, if we have hundreds of billions to develop higher education in Hungary? They don't want to, and you don't ask them. For you, the referendum is actually a power, political game. But I would like to say to you: the truth of life cannot be confused with the falseness of propaganda, because if it does, then the whole country will be false intellect, morals, culture, and not elevate, but destroy the country. In fact, this is the balance of your activities so far. How you personally are going to cope with this is your job, I think you can get expert help, the country needs a different kind of help, get rid of you and your government, there's no other way. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] It's called a choice. A lot of people would really like to get you out of here right now. I tell them not to do it, do not do it, because democratic Hungary by democratic means, although it is not free and fair, is manipulated by you, but it is still necessary to overthrow you in elections, and you, because you are a national and annihilation, because you are, in fact, a traitor to your country, must be sent to where you belong in an election. And where do they belong? Among the characters in history about whom, in the end, their country, their nation, the world we respect, remembers most with contempt (intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties. ), he says we don't want them, because they didn't lift the country up, they destroyed it, they didn't set life free, they actually pushed us there in terms of anger and anger. (Interjections from the ranks of the governing parties. ) In your eyes, we are not national brothers, citizens, fellow citizens, but a mistake to be eliminated, and, you know, the Prime Minister who sees one half of his country as a mistake to be eliminated is, in fact, a party secretary. That's what I suggest you do. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes. Applause for DK, sporadic applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2021-09-20-4	Dear God, don't leave me! Szabó Timea!
u2021-09-20-5	Prime Minister! Once again, you managed to give a lecture that, say, contained traces of reality or had traces of reality; nothing special but the usual blundering of voodoo puppets, put on your tinfoil helmet. [[Interjections and clearness from the ranks of government parties. Several of the ruling parties are pointing towards the opposition.]] And he talked to people who still believe that. But then let's see the reality, the one you didn't tell me about, Prime Minister, because there were a lot of them. He didn't say anything about the Pegasus scandal. Today, for 30 years, you have encrypted the Pegasus wiretapping scandal, the scandal, the scandal of the century, where opposition politicians, journalists and economic operators were interviewed. Today, at the meeting of the National Security Committee, it was not clearly denied that opposition politicians had been intercepted and that the government had applied this means that this was the case. In other decent countries, these people, who are responsible for this, will go to jail, too, and you will deserve it. Prime Minister, in the last 11 years, you have not built a decent, democratic world here, but an underworld. Then, unfortunately, we did not hear from the Prime Minister about the thousands of billion forints of public money cuts we call private fund outsourcings, even though we know that children's camps, ports, universities have been acquired because they know that next year there will be a government change, and in the midst of their last-minute panic management, they will carry virtually everything that is mobile. Prime Minister, you haven't built a decent world here in the last 11 years, you've built a underworld. And then we never heard of Fudan University. We know that you are preparing to take a HUF 450 billion Chinese loan to build a piece of university that is built with Chinese workers, Chinese raw materials, practically for Chinese secret agents. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It is no coincidence that Europe as a whole rejects this project. 450 billion dollars in China are trying to turn Hungary into a Chinese loan. Prime Minister, you are not building a free country, a free world, but a world in which Hungary will become the underworld colony of the Chinese Communist Party. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But Gergely Christmas said, Prime Minister, that if there is a Fudan University, there will be no World Athletics Championship, and you may be told that Budapest has nothing to do with it, but I will still see which international sports association, which, despite the wishes of the host city, brings an event like this, has not happened in the last hundred years, and will not happen. [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It is no coincidence that Europe as a whole rejects this project. 450 billion dollars in China are trying to turn Hungary into a Chinese loan. Prime Minister, you are not building a free country, a free world, but a world in which Hungary will become the underworld colony of the Chinese Communist Party. (Moraj in the ranks of the governing parties. ) But Gergely Christmas said, Prime Minister, that if there is a Fudan University, there will be no World Athletics Championship, and you may be told that Budapest has nothing to do with it, but I will still see which international sports association, which, despite the wishes of the host city, brings an event like this, has not happened in the last hundred years, and will not happen. (Interjections in the ranks of the governing parties. ) Prime Minister, the fact is that you have already failed. (Development in the ranks of the governing parties. ) And speaking of indebtedness, and the Chinese colonialization of Hungary [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] then let's talk about what we also didn't hear that you took out a HUF 1258 billion foreign currency loan in the country this week. No Hungarian government has ever put such a large foreign currency debt on the neck of the Hungarian people. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] [[13.50]] One person will be moaning for 131 thousand forints of foreign currency loans because of you, you have put half a million forints in foreign currency debt on a family with two children this week. Prime Minister, you're not building a living world, you're building an indebted underworld. They will all be punished for this, but let us see what is left out of his account. Interestingly, we have not heard of record inflation most affecting pensioners or record prices. While inflation is 5 per cent, Prime Minister, while you have made a 3.5 per cent pension increase, a pension is worth virtually less today than it was a year ago. The price of food oil increased by 30 percent, poultry, flour, sugar by nearly 10 percent. Prime Minister, while your daughter Rachel parades in 20 million watches, hundreds of thousands of pensioners starve at the end of the month. Prime Minister, you're not building a world of comfort and comfort for the elderly, you're building an underworld. And let's look at the minimum wage you're talking about. You said it was a gross minimum wage of 200,000 forints. That's very little. While you have introduced the slave law, while your strategic partner at the Mako factory forbids trade unions from fighting for wage increases, you are forbidden to speak to each other during working hours, this is your government strategic partner. You have not spoken because you want to build such a slave country. Prime Minister, you didn't build a living world, you built a underworld out of our country. It is not enough to raise the minimum wage to 200,000 forints gross. As Gergely Christmas promised, after a change of government, a net monthly minimum wage of HUF 200,000 should be granted so that people can make a decent living on this wage. Prime Minister, enough of the underworld you've built. We will deal with the thief, corrupt, villainous government and world you built, and don't hope that you will be punished for exactly what you deserve. Under the leadership of Gergely Christmas, we will build a decent, welfare world, where no pensioner can receive less than 100,000 forints a month. Where there is no slave law [[There's a grumble from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] And a mother of two should not be afraid that at the end of the month there will be no hot food on the table; where in schools the news is not that 11,000 teachers are absent from all education, but that teachers are valued; where a spinal surgery, Prime Minister, does not have to wait a year and a half for you to withdraw all the money from health care, education, while Zsolt Semjén's hunting exhibition costs HUF 80 billion. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: That's not true either. Dr. Agnes Vadai: That means more!]] Prime Minister, instead of a 1% rule, we will bring 99 percent prosperity. And we understand, we know you're terrified of Gergely Christmas. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We know that they measure you, that they see in polls how dangerous this is for you. But you must be terrified, because we know exactly that you know, and people know that only Gergely Christmas can replace your government. We don't need any more exposure, self-discovery, Prime Minister, than the fact that you have already spent more than 130 million forints to discredit Gergely Christmas. What are you afraid of if you don't think it's dangerous? Then why did they spend so much? We know what's going on, Prime Minister. [[Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You know it, and I know we're gonna beat it. He is the only one who, from the right, from the left, from the greens and the uncertains, and even from the disillusioned voting camp of you, can unite the crowd that will drive you out of government, and we will expel your thieving government from government. [[György Balla intervenes.]] After a change of government, we will restore the honour of the politics that you have taken, and we will finally bring a decent country and prosperity. Thank you. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: Oh, and the underworld... applause from the opposition.]]
u2021-09-20-6	The Deputy Prime Minister is not allowed to intervene either. In fact, no one else does. [[Szabó Timea: But you are allowed to because you shouted. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: No punishment?]] Bertalan Tóth, head of the MSZP faction. I give you the floor.
u2021-09-20-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On the part of Prime Minister's report on crisis management, the usual production meeting: everything was fine, everything was fine, there is nothing to see here, so we must see that millions of Hungarians do not think so. On the way here, seeing the pre-election tents and the lines involved in the pre-election, the rebirth of democracy, they certainly don't think so, and they have a good reason why they don't think so, because, as my fellow Members have said, a lot has been left out of this production meeting, many tragic events that, after the epidemic treatment, are still on the balance sheet, have to be mentioned. For example, over 30,000 dead. We did not hear a word Prime Minister say about grandmothers, grandpas, mothers, fathers, brothers and children. We didn't hear a word about it. We have not heard that we are already well below the EU average for vaccination, and we are on the platform for death. We have not heard that the waiting lines for surgeries are endless. We haven't heard of thousands of doctors and nurses leaving the field in the middle of the epidemic. We have not heard of the masses of patients who have not been treated, according to the National Health Insurance Fund Manager, in 2020 there were 500,000 fewer people in hospital care than in 2019. Of these, fewer than 13,000 cancer patients were hospitalized, while in the European Union we maintain a high mortality list for cancer. However, we have not heard of dealing with the livelihood crisis, such as the fact that the wealth of the richest in Hungary has increased by one third during the crisis. They must have benefited from the results of the crisis management, and they must have enjoyed the government's decisions. Lőrinc Mészáros, who probably received his wedding gift in advance, increased his fortune by HUF 185 billion in a year in the middle of the crisis, and László Szíj changed his yacht, so the three-storey yacht is available to the members of the government. Meanwhile, during the crisis, a poll showed that 41 percent of respondents reported a decline in their income. They have fallen and the richest have grown, which is the result of your crisis management. 21 percent took extra work, 16 percent borrowed from the family, and 9 percent used bank loans. In recent years, over the past ten years, income scissors have continued to open, income inequalities have increased, 60 percent of Hungarians are on the wrong side of this income scissors, and their income has decreased, while in the V4 countries there has been a completely opposite process. So this means that 60 percent of Hungarians did not benefit from economic growth and did not benefit from it. But let's look at the retirement situation. The poverty rate of people over 65 has tripled in the last 11 years: from 5 to 15 percent. 450,000 Hungarian pensioners receive a pension below 100,000 forints. Under-age and disability pensions have been abolished. Pensions are now being spent less in the budget than before. In the last ten years, that has decreased from 11 per cent to 8 per cent of GDP. If we look at the relationship between pensions and average earnings, we see that in more than ten years from the starting point... 74.5 percent of the average salary was the average pension, today 54 percent. But let's see how the Hungarian labour market, let's say, has developed productivity. According to the reports, GDP generated in one working hour has decreased in euro over the last ten years, productivity has decreased, Hungary's competitiveness has also deteriorated. [[14.00]] As far as the minimum wage is concerned, we're uplifters. If we count it in euro, the minimum wage today is worth less than a year ago. inflation is skyrocketing, petrol prices, food prices are tipping, we are world champions of VAT, public debt is skyrocketing, forint is in a tragic state. Back in 2009, Tibor Navracsics said that the forint reached the 300 euro exchange rate, no one can deny that this is a psychological limit. This single number is a good indicator of the failure of government policy, said this in February 2009; obviously it has not changed its view since then. There's a housing crisis, there's no building insulation, there's no panel program, there's no rental building, instead of Student City, they're building a Fudan University, family allowance, pension minimum hasn't increased in over ten years. The Pegasus scandal was also mentioned, because journalists are being watched for fear of power, but also economic actors, politicians and mayor. You can see they're very, very scared. This is what the Prime Minister's announcement is referring to, perhaps, that various measures will be put into the Fundamental Law or Constitution here. I am very pleased about the pension, because you have removed pension from the Fundamental Law, and now perhaps pension will be a fundamental right again in Hungary. That is why we need a change of government, which is why we need people not to receive one-off benefits, because it is now an election year, but rather, in the long term, social injustices must be eliminated, income differences must be reduced, low pensions must be caught up, low wages must be caught up, for example, by exempting the minimum wage. We need to solve the housing crisis, we need to deal with the housing crisis, we need to build apartments, we need to restart the panel insulation program, we need to start renovating the Kádár cubes. Family support must be increased so that all families have access to state aid, not just the wealthy. Food must be made cheaper, it must be helped to make a living, and it must be helped by those who need it. This is what we are working on so that Gergely Christmas will report on these measures in a year's time as Prime Minister before the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-20-8	Now, on behalf of the LMP, it will be László Keresztes Lóránt. Here you go.
u2021-09-20-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, We've listened to your speech, and based on what you've said, and most of what you've left out of your speech, we can conclude that you want to deny reality, and we can also conclude that you clearly have no sense of responsibility. What is left out of your speech, which you have not reported here in terms of government actions over the past period, Prime Minister, I am trying to speak louder: you have not spoken about shoveling an amazing amount of public wealth to fidesz public foundations. You didn't tell me that you had outsourced a lot of important government functions. He did not mention that the municipalities were being oppressed by austerity, nor did he mention that the most important public services for the people had been further rotted by their government for the last 10 to 11 years. He did not speak again about the outsourcing of Hungarian higher education, which led us to the point that today there was no state-owned higher education institution in Hungary, in the countryside. And he didn't say anything about the chaos that's visible to most universities. You referred to national interests and talked about politics according to national interests, even though you proved the opposite. They proved that they are able to sacrifice Hungarian national interests on the altar of serving foreign interests at any time. The case of Fudan University has been discussed. You would spend more money on the campus of the University of the Chinese Communist Party in Budapest against the clear will of the people than on the entire Hungarian higher education in a year. This will cause enormous damage and pawn the future of Hungarian youth. But likewise, in a time of crisis, for the Budapest-Belgrád railway development project serving only Chinese interests, you have sacrificed enough money to create 125 thousand new Hungarian jobs. Prime Minister, this is the reality, and you have not spoken about these issues. And what I can tell you is that it cannot be considered a national government that does not face the worst tragedy affecting the nation, the hundreds of thousands of people who have migrated from the country because of your bad governance, your bad politics, and by which one in six Hungarian children are born abroad today. And we see your 11-year government. You have been ruling for 11 years, and we can see what you are doing with propaganda instead of fair and effective governance, and we can also see what political campaign you are conducting. You have driven Fidesz politicians and mayors out of the street, and instead of facing these serious mistakes, you will face the fact that millions of people are in a very disappointing state and would try to help, try to remedy these serious problems, and you will collect signatures against the opposition. That tells me everything about you. So, after 11 years of government, after the extraction of such serious problems, your government is about collecting signatures against the opposition. Prime Minister! Hundreds of thousands of people have left this country, and now, in difficult, betrayed regions, many people say that if there is no meaningful change, if there is no change of government, they will also be forced to leave because they see no other option. I think this is a tragedy, and this is the most shocking result of your governance, and it is entirely your responsibility. I also live in a region like this, I represent such a region, a betrayed, difficult region, the South-Transdanubian region, and I bring you a message from many people in this region, Prime Minister. Retirements, who live humiliatingly low money, overnight, and still suffer most from the fact that a large proportion of their grandchildren live abroad; pensioners who can no longer buy medicines; people's messages, law enforcement workers or former miners who would expect to be honoured for serving their country or for choosing a very difficult profession like mining. You've let these people down. Prime Minister, I will bring you the attention of the university staff, the message of the university staff. You have outsourced universities, you have failed to provide promised development resources based on lies, and you have not yet received the patheticly low wage development promised by your university employees, which you have been extremely proud of. It can be seen that in 11 years you have not been able to settle the salaries of teachers, researchers and employees in Hungarian higher education, so the situation is absolutely devastating, so many people leave this extremely important sector, higher education, which is fundamentally intertwined with the future of Hungary. You betrayed Hungarian higher education, betrayed universities, betrayed young Hungarians. You're propaganda against the opposition. As the Head of the Szabó Timea Group said, they spend quite an amazing amount of money to discredit certain politicians and certain actors. You claim that the left is your opponent and that no one has learned from the mistakes of governments before 2010. Well, it is not true, my fellow Members, that you are opposed to the entire opposition, and we are working to ensure that everyone in Hungary, after a change of government, thrives in their homeland, that everyone gets decent wages after their honest work, and that pensioners receive adequate care. We are working, Prime Minister, to finally have a government in Hungary that really acts according to national interests. Allow me so much, Prime Minister, I live in Pécs, I have always lived in this wonderful city: under your government, the population of this city has fallen by 15,000. Typically, people left because they did not receive adequate wages, adequate job opportunities, or were fleeing the debt trap. I can also tell you that Baranya's second-largest city, Komló, is a former mining town that has been reduced by nearly 4,000 people during your administration. And what did you get from Prime Minister Viktor Orbán or representatives of Fidesz, or from the government, this region, Baranya County? Amazing, tens of billions of dollars in debt, shocking cuts, withdrawals. You have received, Prime Minister, that not only the county, but one of the most important actors in the entire region, the University of Pécs, have been outsourced. This very important institution gives jobs to 7,000 people. Now there's incredible uncertainty at the university. Here, at this university, workers did not receive the wages promised, and practically chaos arose, and the processes were chaotic. No one can tell us exactly what the future of the university will be. That is why we say, Prime Minister, that the people of Pécs and Baranya will drive you away, they will replace the government, we will jointly replace the government, and one of our first measures will be to restore the autonomy of the University of Pécs. Prime Minister, you have spoken about the issue of migration, but you have forgotten to mention here, Minister Antal Rogán, that in contrast to your communication, you have allowed nearly 20,000 people in with the settlement bonds, without any substantive control. And you are the ones who consistently degrade the issue of migration, which is indeed a challenge for Europe as a campaign theme and do not talk about the root causes, do not talk about the real solutions, and are preventing us from taking a meaningful European cooperation against the effects of climate change and environmental destruction, so that we can really get to the point where we can reduce the causes of migration. And they're not telling the truth about that either. [[14.10]] We have always been consistent in this regard. We now believe that immigration policy must be kept in national competence, that the EU's external borders must be protected and that illegal migration must be stopped. Mr. Prime Minister spoke at the beginning of his speech about extending the extraordinary legal order and extending the emergency. Prime Minister, you do not seriously believe that the Hungarians believe that visitors can enter a hunting exhibition without any restrictions, but yet you intend to extend your own power! This is an amazing contradiction, and what I can tell you is that since you have not lived, but have abused the extraordinary authority, we will say no to that.
u2021-09-20-10	Now it's James Peter's turn.
u2021-09-20-11	Thank you for the floor. Well, Prime Minister, I thought, to be honest, you managed to relax yourself this summer, but hearing all the nonsense you said, you couldn't rest, but you couldn't find a place to rest, because you could replace the 42-metre luxury yacht with a 50-meter boat for 10 billion forints. You see, Prime Minister, this is what has grown in Hungary since we did not meet, your luxury, the size of the yacht and the misery of the people. And, you know, the outrageous thing is, the poorer the Hungarians are, the more you shake the cloth. I swear, they're gonna provoke the people until they run into a big slap. They're gonna get it next year. [[Rumors from the pro-government ranks. Lajos Kósa: Wow, we're so scared!]] You said here that as many people have never worked in Hungary as they do now. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Well, look, that's something ancient slave societies could say about themselves. The question is that Hungarians can live off the fruits of the work, and the fact is that at present more than 2 million of our countrymen live below the minimum living standards. A million workers have to work for a minimum wage. One million pensioners have to come out of less than 100,000 a month. Do you even know how much minimum pension is? You know? He doesn't know. 28 500 forints, 13 years unchanged, as has the family allowance for 13 years unchanged, but the prices are skyrocketing, Prime Minister, the prices are skyrocketing! And then you have the nerve to ask the Hungarian people to raise the minimum wage with such a smiley emoji on your billboards. Raise it up, people? Net from 111,000 to 133 thousand HUF net? Prime Minister, since 2010, you have been able to achieve with a two-thirds mandate, unlimited power and a great deal of EU funds that the Romanian minimum wage has overtaken Hungary [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Congratulations!]] And then you ask him to raise the Hungarian minimum wage? Well, even if we double it, there's not enough. That's the governorship? Yeah, I'm sorry. At the end of last year, when we had to give the parrot commando and the secretary ladies and gentlemen millions of rewards, you didn't ask any questions, did you? That's when they knew what to do. Now they don't know? In fact, they lie in the eyes of Hungarians that the Hungarian economy is going so fast, everything is doing so well here, that at present an average Hungarian family has 16 million HUF in savings according to you. Where is this 16 million forint, Prime Minister? Where? Oh, he's being watched by Lawrence the Butcher? They didn't say that. 'Cause the families don't have it, that's for sure, but they worked for it. When, during the crisis, we demanded that you give 80 percent wage support to the entrepreneurs in distress, you know, in the declining West, they did it and it worked. Here, during the crisis, I received letters from Hungarian entrepreneurs forced to London, asking how you were doing. And you know what they said? It means, look, Peter, we're a little bored because we had to close the shop now, but we're getting pay compensation from the government, thank you very much, we're fine, we changed the car. Now, from the Hungarian entrepreneurs who are stuck in Hungary, I didn't get a letter like that, but from living up to the family reserve, we put our lives on this small store, and now we have to close down, we have to let our workers go, and there's no future, and we don't get any wage support from the government. We have demanded that you increase your job search from three to nine months, so that anyone who loses their job will find another. We demanded from you that after 13 years we double the family allowance by multiplying 12 200 forints by two. I don't think we asked for that much. Do you remember what you said? That there's no free money, that money has to be paid. You're right, there's really no free money. For the money that you and your buddies have with your relatives, the Hungarians had to work hard. It's a fact. Tell me on the radio, you go to Kossuth once a week, you talk to yourself for half an hour, last time you say you've been touched by the crisis, because you live on wages and salaries. Are you serious? Well, you sat here in Parliament 30 years ago, and since then you've been doing so well, you've sat so well that your family has been richer by HUF 15 billion in the last seven years. You deal, you multiply. Do you know how much this is? 180 million a month! So I understand that the Orbán family has HUF 180 million a month in wages and salaries? I'm right, aren't I? I don't think you can work for that kind of money. You can steal it, so you really do live on wages and salaries, the Hungarians. Here the Hungarian people pay Europe-recorder taxes. Everyone here is paying taxes after work, paying taxes on gas, the roads are great, we see, they're paying taxes on food. If anyone goes into Coop, the poorest one pays the 27 percent VAT. But where does all this money go, Prime Minister? Where is he? 'Cause I saw you tell me that you went to the Hungarian National Bank this summer and looked at the country's gold reserve, but, you know, I immediately thought about the private pension fund savings, and you looked at it, and then it all went away, all 3000 billion. [[Rumble and clear from the pro-government ranks.]] Just like they took away the house register, took away the service pension, took away the cafeteria, someone's overtime money, the other one's day off. But did we get to you guys listening to people's phones? Breaking into our phones? Watching us, reading our texts, reading our letters? Well, who on earth let you into our private life? Who? Do you happen to want to come into my bedroom with Jozsi Szájer? Do you want to come in? [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] Isn't there going to be a referendum on this? Prime Minister, you can vote here, you can consult here at national level, but no one here will have a better life. Nobody! You know that, and I know that the Hungarian state is one of the most expensive states in the European Union, it costs a lot of money. The question is, what do you give people in exchange for their money? Prosperity? Hell, no. I can see that, of course, there is a 70 billion-dollar hunting exhibition and 150 billion-dollar athletic stadium, and they want a Chinese university for 500 billion, and for 1700 billion-dollar Budapest-Belgrád railway line with Chinese credit, of course, that this state is expensive. But where is the welfare that life should be about? Where's that? The Hungarian man knows that he lives well by putting it on the poster. They laugh around us in Austria, they feel well-being on the wallet, not the posters. And here, if someone can't find their 16 million forints, we'll write on the poster that Hungary is doing better, don't forget? We won't forget, but we won't forget anything. We won't forget who destroyed this country. We won't forget who took the land. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: The people you're with!]] the factories [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz: So are you! There's your buddies!]] universities, health care [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz: You are there with them!]] who took our schools, our highways, who took our lives and our country. And we won't forget to pay you back! And believe me, believe me, I'm not gonna shake my hand when you need to be handcuffed. [[Grumbles and interrogations from the pro-government benches:]] Because unlike you, I haven't been a part of the last 30 years. I'm not indebted to anyone or anyone. With me, the Hungarians will not build the past [[Moore from the pro-government benches. Laszlo Szászfalvi: Monkey! You're a monkey! Get out of here!]] but the future, a country where everyone gets what they deserve, but they're gonna get it. I want the thieves to pay me. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: Who are you, James? Monkey!]] Prosperity for all Hungarians! [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!- Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-09-20-12	Holy shit. [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks.]] István Simicskó, leader of the KDNP faction.
u2021-09-20-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me begin by thanking Prime Minister for his information and by regularly giving his views on the current situation here, within the walls of this House, and by giving us all a vision of the future. However, let me consider myself a man of calm temperament, but let me respond to a few solos before me, and then, of course, to the questions raised by the Prime Minister. I have been a Member of Parliament since 98, which is a great honor for me, and perhaps I can recommend it to some of my younger colleagues, not as an instruction, not as a teaching, but as a fellow Member, that there are very serious reporters here, stenographers who are also world champions, and record the words and sentences that have been said here. They won't always be able to return the style, but if your descendants ever come here and borrow from the library the speeches that have been made here from your mouth, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that they will not be ashamed in front of their children and grandchildren. So obviously we know that style is human, but it's important not to get carried away too much. I am one of those people who, in my opinion, have to pay attention to our opponents, because they are the ones who are trying to draw attention to our mistakes, to our weaknesses, but what I see is that those who do this have many, many more flaws than criticisms of the government that are being formulated. Ladies and gentlemen, Five times in eight minutes we heard the speeches of the left-wing faction leaders, there was too much praise in it, but let us not count on it, because it seems that summer has not changed for them, and indeed in a specific pre-election campaign, I see that they are trying to do so, while everything has been decided, but they are trying to say who is even worse and more foolish about the government's activities and the state of the country. It's like living in a different country. [[James Peter: What do you know?]] [[14.20]] I think it is also worth answering the question, because the head of the left is sitting here, coming back and listening to our speech, Ferenc Gyurcsány, who asked who was threatening the country and who was trying to refer to the government or the Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, it's nice to clarify the question of what is home. Our homeland, our family, our children, our grandchildren, our parents, our grandparents, the nation itself, our customs, our mother tongue, our traditions, our traditions, our culture. [[Zoltán Balczó: The Prime Minister's speech must be answered.]] When we look back at left-wing governance, do we really see that they have done everything they can for the country? What we see is that when Hungarians across the border, with their hands and arms stretched out for help, were rejected for granting dual citizenship, when Hungarians were opposed to Hungarians, when taxes were raised, when they took away the 13th month pension, when they put the country on the brink of economic bankruptcy, and even on the 23rd of October they were shot among Hungarians, this does not endanger the country? Isn't that a threat to the Hungarian nation? No, it's a threat. This is indeed an anti-national act. On the other hand, the Hungarian government has been working continuously from 2010 on a clear, clear national strategy for Hungarians across the border with the possibility of granting Hungarian citizenship, and in economic policy, protecting families, supporting children, and in many other ways, working, fighting and protecting the country with fences and everything, so that Hungarian people and families can live and prosper safely and provide all the conditions, even for small entrepreneurs and large entrepreneurs, so that they can create more jobs and make a living for people. Ladies and gentlemen, So we Christian democrats also see that, yes, the government has taken the necessary measures in time, it has recognised the dangers behind and inherent in the epidemic, it has taken the necessary measures in time both in the procurement of protective equipment and in the preparation of the vaccination plan and in the implementation of the programme. I always tell you that these vaccines didn't work themselves out, but the government had to bring in these ventilators, masks, and everything else, just to take care of the security we expect from every state. This has not been so successful for all states. The Hungarian government has successfully completed its work during the third wave and, of course, prepared for the fourth wave; says the Good Lord, that this should not be as powerful as the third wave. Obviously, the vaccination programme, which is progressing according to the vaccination plan, now means safety and protection for millions of Hungarians, and this work must be continued. In addition, the re-launching of the economy has started. These thoughts, these words, these results, the 5.5 percent economic growth, the protection of jobs, the 4.7 million employed, are all important work, and behind this, I would stress that there are responsible government decisions. No one can think that this is how it works on their own, and the government doesn't have to do anything. It must create the environment for this, pursue an incentive policy and help the economy to grow, and that is what the government does. National consultation. I do not understand that at every national consultation, you, my honourable left-wing colleagues, are constantly putting the government under attack. What's wrong with asking people for the 11th time in the form of a national consultation by the government? He also asked about the constitutional amendment in 2011 that he did not ask. But he asked, and most people said that this is necessary, and we need a new constitution, Fundamental Law in Hungary. I see that, in addition to the epidemic, the migration you have spoken of, Prime Minister, will obviously be a huge challenge in the coming period. We have experienced this continuously since 2015. The numbers that show the illegal activity of smugglers and the number that has increased more than three times as far as border offenders are concerned have tripled. I am sure that the Hungarian Government will continue to do everything in its power to protect the border in a physical sense. It was important work to do this, and it is important that our police and soldiers continue to stand on our borders. At least as important is the protection of our children, the support of families raising children. For us, it is very welcome that 1.9 million parents have received a HUF 600 billion refund grant from the government, and this amount remains with the families. Pensions, the pension premium, the 13th month pension, are also important goals that will greatly help our older friends to live a quality life. The payment of six months' arms money from armed and police agencies is also exemplary. For my part, as former Minister of Defence, I can support it far and wide, and we welcome this wise decision of the government. It is certain that the problem in Afghanistan will come down in Hungary, and it is already noticeable. We agree with the Prime Minister that the withdrawal was not fully thought out. It is also a fact that we are also part of a civilized struggle, because we see what a spiritual and spiritual crisis the western part of Europe is in. It was very welcome that the 52nd Eucharistic World Congress was held in Budapest, and I will talk about this in front of my agenda. I feel that this has also strengthened the Christian world in the fact that our faith, our hope, our love must grow, because we are facing huge challenges and dangers. Once again, we thank the Prime Minister very much for his information. We wish the government good luck and good work. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-14	Now it's time for Mr. Máté Kocsis, leader of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-09-20-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, It means hope for us that there's always a lower level for you. Last summer, we assumed or would have bet that it was only uphill compared to the previous years. And now I've been denied. They've made a lot of progress in personalism, demagoguery, defamation, and everything else we've heard in the last half hour. I tell you frankly, many of us have the chills on our backs when we listen to the demagogues of Chief James, and perhaps there are many of us who are also caught by the second sense of shame. I wouldn't really respond, though, of course, you'd like to go through every single charge, the election on Sunday, and you're already sitting in your office on Monday, starting with the state-of-the-art threats, which, to put it mildly, are quite childish, but considering that you're just as tough as Tarzan's corner. [[There's a rare blur in the ranks of Fidesz.]] But you don't understand what you're saying, so if you don't mind, I'd rather talk to the boss, see if he... [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] The only thing I would like to tell you is that once and for all, there has been only one period in Hungary since the change of regime, when secret services were used for political purposes, to discredit opponents, that was the boss' government. That was the time when, on behalf of a secretary of secrets named Szilvasy, a national security official named Laborc assigned a criminal figure named Portik to take down right-wing politicians. It was that era. It wasn't just now, it was that era. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear Mr. Team Leader Gyurcsány, The truth is, for an employee of James, be kind and tell him to push it too far. A lot. There's a lot of workmen on the machines. A lot of repulsive, counterproductive. There's a lot of strangulation against those who disagree. I think that's a lot. There's a lot of pedophile killer nominations in a municipal election. You must have heard one of the great scandals in the summer, even though many have been silent, many. [[Peter James: But you are few!]] I think we're all group leaders who have spoken here, if I recall correctly, yes. I think Mr. James is the only one of us who travels the country with thugs. I think that's a lot. I was on a crossroads the other day, while Mr. James rides with four carriages, until I have the opportunity to go with my own two children. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I don't need thugs. [[Interjection from the ranks of the KDNP: James, fear not.]] So, it's so deep, I think we're running out of air. I don't want to give you any advice, but think about it. To Mrs. Timea Szabó, who is not here, let me offer you one thing: it was Gergely Christmas that she advertised and wanted to sell, who not quite two years ago fooled the people of Budapest by giving all pensioners a heating grant of HUF 20,000. Turns out that was a bluff, too. So anyway, understand, no matter what you promise people, they don't believe you. [[14.30]] They were deceived two years ago, cheated 15 years ago, and they will be deceived next spring. The fact that you tell me what's going on beyond the Óperencia may matter in your own bubble, but believe me, people are immune to what you promise or what you don't. After Congressman James, turning to you, Mr. Group Leader, Mr. Gyurcsány Group Leader, you said your lovely wife the other day would be very angry if you heard from a Fidesz again that you were indebted to the country. I'm going to say this slowly so that you can understand this once again: you are indebted to the country. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: That's right! Applause in the same place.]] Regardless of how angry your wife will be, they took over the country with 52 percent sovereign debt and returned it with 83 percent sovereign debt. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: That's right!]] In the second year of their governance, I will say something else that will make your dear wife angry and angry with me, but for all of us, the government deficit was 9.3 percent in the second year of their governance, which led to an excessive deficit procedure against Hungary. It's been two years! And to make them angry a little longer, you must have heard the economic expectations, Prime Minister, but according to a bolder estimate, looking at the end of the year, you can reach up to 7 percent. This must be familiar to you, number 7, only this time plus, and yours was negative. [[A statement from the ruling parties: Whoops! Defiance on the pro-government side.]] For the sake of the weaker, the difference between the two is 14. And to make them even more angry, during their eight-year government, the minimum wage was raised by HUF 23,500. In 2010, it was 73 500 forints, and today we are talking about 200 thousand forints, more than twice as much. But here's another thing: the cost of the overhead was tripled, the price of electricity doubled. But let's get a little angry about the tax system, then, Mr. Group Leader. They have increased the taxes on the work and overtaxed families, small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. We can also remember the big tax fraud in 2006, which led Hungarian people to be deceived before the elections. What's wrong with that? This year and next year, tax reductions could reach HUF 1500 billion. We're talking about an unprecedented amount of money. There will be a family tax refund, as stated in the speech before the agenda, equivalent to the exemption of people under the age of 25 from new constructions, the exemption from tax of new constructions and the reduction of employers' taxes. But just to mention the big classic corporate tax on businesses, this government reduced it from 19 percent to 9 percent. With regard to the excessive deficit procedure and the sovereign debt, I would like to say one more thing to you. The level of public debt has been included in the law that you criticized, often abused; it was not your maximized level, it was not your policy, it was the expectation of our Fundamental Law. Expectations to the sovereign debt, which you have increased by 30 percent, do not express yourself. So keep your voice down, keep your voice down, keep your voice down. I would like to say a single number to my fellow Member, Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. We had an argument this summer, and I'm still keeping him from telling the truth. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But maybe he's wrong. In 2010, 1,600 people came home to Hungary, and in 2020, 23 thousand people, 14 times more. I ask you, the truth, the pure truth to the electorate. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-16	If Prime Minister wishes to make use of the possibility of rejoinder, I will give the floor. Here you go.
u2021-09-20-17	I may not wish to wish, but as if it were the right thing to do. [[Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties. It's an intervention from DK's ranks.]] But honestly, I don't have that much enthusiasm, because the whole situation is extremely surreal. So we're in a situation where I see the facts here don't matter, the past doesn't matter, and everyone here says what they want, they talk nonsense. For example, someone here was talking about the average pension, which he believes has decreased, and this has now increased by 50 percent compared to 2010. Someone was talking about the country being ruined economically. Households' financial assets amounted to HUF 30 000 billion in 2010, now and in 21 it was HUF 70,000 billion. I don't know, it makes sense to say these things over and over again, because apparently the people who sit in front of us don't care about reality at all. Only James Peter has an acquittal. [[Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Which is the only reason everyone knows, the whole country knows that he goes to Parliament to play clowns, and a clown he says doesn't have to be taken seriously. Although he has an innovation in clowning, which is remarkable, he's the only clown in the world with a bodyguard. Congratulations to Jobbik. [[Defiance, applause from the ranks of the governing parties.]] I would also like to say a few words about threats at the end, but here I would like to remind you that Jobbik is a culture and a habit of putting people in jail together. I remember Ferenc Gyurcsány was threatened with prison, and now he's under his arm to learn democracy. Congratulations on that, too. [[Defiance, applause from the ranks of the governing parties.]] But maybe it's not useless. See if it's not useless. I understand that opposition representatives do not give unconditional credibility to our words, but at least to your supporters, the European Union. The whole European Union is behind you, your comrades are sitting in the Commission, working to win the next election. At least they'll accept the data they've published, because they're your masters who say so! They do not believe me, but the European Union's statistical office says that since 2010, the number of people at risk of poverty has been 1 million 250 thousand to their owners. You say that the proportion of people living in severe deprivation has fallen from 23.4 percent to 8 percent over a decade, my honourable fellow Member. One more time, at least believe their masters. Ladies and Gentlemen, My fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, tells me what the municipalities have received. I would like to remind everyone that we took over the municipalities from the Gyurcsány government by being indebted to the neck, by being on the brink of bankruptcy and even by going bankrupt, and this government, the civil national government, took over the debt from all the municipalities, even from the extremely rich Budapest. What did we give you? ! [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] And speaking of my fellow Member Bertalan Tóth talking about his visit to Pécs, he could have said that last week we handed over a medical university campus for 23 billion forints in case the Pécs appreciated it. It's a shame to keep these parts of the truth quiet. No one thinks that everything is okay in Baranya, but everyone thinks that the government is making an extraordinary effort to raise the backward regions of the country. There will be a referendum on Fudan University, so it may not be worth considering the false allegations in this regard. As far as universities are concerned, last year we spent HUF 220 billion on the operation of universities, now we have changed from September, and we will spend HUF 417 billion on the operation, not on development and operation. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] I hear similar nonsense about what's going on with the debt, and no other government has ever taken up so much debt, because the Hungarian government has immediately taken out EUR 4.5 billion of loans for reasons to be detailed here. Madam Member, because you are now together, you have taken out EUR 14,3 billion of loans. You know, that's more than 4.5. [[Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So it is quite simply so absurd and absurd that it is difficult to talk intelligently about it. In any case, to those who are so enthusiastically supported by the European Union's left-wing Commission, I would like to say, as if it were not clear that the exact name of the recovery fund is the Restoration Fund. The European Union does not give any extra money to anyone to overcome the crisis, it gives a loan, and then it has to be repaid. We will jointly repay part of the loan through the budget of the European Union and the other part directly from the budgets. There's no money in the window. Hungary is doing that if the EU does not give it to us, although we hope that the negotiations will lead to results, it will not give us the money that is due to us in time, but it would be a loan, we will take it up and replace it with other loans. [[14.40]] I would like to point out that the bonds that have just been issued have been made under historical record levels, perhaps under 1 percent or even 1 percent. Hungary is not a member of the euro area, it is able to borrow from the financial market today with interest such as the countries behind which the European Central Bank is standing. That's a good sign, ladies and gentlemen. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Many of you have spoken here against China, let's speak straight then! I understand that there is a great struggle in the world today, which is about the fact that the position of the United States leading the world has been compromised, and the Chinese catch-up... shows all the statistics, and it's almost cliché for the Westerners to say that there is a change in the world's leadership. It is not unusual, the Americans, who are accurate people, wrote that this has happened sixteen times before, according to the written memories of world history, of which twelve were in war conditions, only four were peaceful. So I understand that there is a big problem here, but I would warn everyone not to commit one-sidedly in this China-America fight. I find it particularly unfortunate that the entire opposition is clearly in the pockets of the Americans, talking about this issue as if it were our problem! I understand that this redeployment is a serious problem for the United States, but this is not the problem of Hungarians, honourable opposition, trying to represent the Hungarian people! It is in the interests of the Hungarian people that we do not drift into such a cold war. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] It's in our best interest to be friends with everyone and the Americans and the Chinese. What you want us to do is stand there against the interests of the Hungarian people and hide in the pockets of the Americans, I do not think it is the right political idea. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Even if the Americans are our allies, you have to say that clearly. So whoever proposes to Hungary in a Chinese-American debate, in a global political and global trade debate, let us give up our Chinese markets unilaterally, let us give up Chinese investments, otherwise Americans will trade with them as much as possible. [[Szabó Timea: I don't need Fudan University!]] It speaks against the interests of the Hungarian people. This is a complete misunderstanding of the right Hungarian foreign policy. The essence of Hungarian foreign policy is that it is difficult and not always possible to be in good relations with all important world political players; it is difficult, but it is possible. This is the situation in Hungary today. It is very appropriate that Hungary is interested in strengthening the European Union, it is important that it is a good ally to the United States, it is important that it has a meaningful and respectable relationship with Russia, and it is important that it takes advantage of all the benefits of trading with China. This is the right attitude and this is the right foreign policy national interest, ladies and gentlemen. So I mean, you're with the Americans, I'm not sure it's worth it. [[A statement from the opposition: You and the Chinese!]] Ask for the price, I suggest. If you want to stand there, ask for the price. Don't do it for free. Ladies and Gentlemen, After that, I must also say a word about the words of Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány, who is unfortunately no longer among us... [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: It's campaign time! Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] He's out of the gym. It is important to remind each other of moral aspects. I consider it particularly important to think that it must be avoided that the government is in a position where any Hungarian government deals more with itself than with the country. I quote him now that the honourable left has succeeded, now, I can say, with the Jobbik added to the left. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Sure! Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] No choice says the Prime Minister after a few years of government, because this is done... no little, very. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] In Europe, the morally educating Prime Minister says that no country has ever done such a thing as what we have done. Of course, as we know him, he also adds:. It can be explained. Obviously, we've been lying for the last year and a half. [[James Peter: Twelve!]] It was quite clear that what we were saying was not true, says Ferenc Gyurcsány. Then he lectures us on moral matters and proposes that we deal with the country rather than ourselves. Don't you find this amusing, ladies and gentlemen? [[Intruder from the pro-government benches: Yes, quite!]] He also says that the current leader of the left is pushing his wife and the mayor of Budapest in vain, because we all know who the boss is, and I quote him again:. And in the meantime, we didn't do anything for four years. I can't say anything significant about government action that we can be proud of. He'll teach us to take care not of ourselves, but of the country. And then he says, and I quote, "The wealth of the world economy and hundreds of tricks, which you obviously don't need to know, helped us survive. He'll call us not to lie. Ladies and Gentlemen, It's a cabaret. James Peter is in the right place. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause and applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-18	Dear Parliament, We will continue with the speeches before the agenda. I give the floor to the Dialogue Representative, Tordai Bence. [[Some Members leave the Chamber.]]
u2021-09-20-19	Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, It's been a long time since we've met, and we've had a lot to talk about, but I can't just walk past Viktor Orbán's recent moral and spiritual dive. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I'm afraid we've never heard such indifference, the sale of the country's interests, such a lousy explanation in this House. But we didn't expect anything else from Orbán, because all summer they continued doing what they have been doing since 2010: serving the interests of 1 percent and ignoring the interests of government, the public interest, 99 percent. Let's just look at some of the most important areas of governance. What happened, what happens in health care? Two days ago, the Fidesz Propaganda Division, called the Hungarian Telegram Office, announced that Bosnia and Herzegovina took the lead on the standings of the highest European Covid deaths per capita. The little thing they forgot to mention was that from Hungary. So Hungary continues to be the second, the third highest, death of Covid per million in Europe, and we are slowly in the back of the European field in terms of vaccination. According to Minister Kasler, who also escaped from health, the epidemic led to the fact that the waiting lists on which 25 000 people had already been on board before the outbreak now increased to 41 thousand. Since May of this year, when the epidemic has subsided, the number of patients awaiting intervention in healthcare has increased by 9,000. So, for example, if someone in Western Hungary wants to perform knee replacement surgery today, they will have to wait 782 days. This is how the Hungarian health system survived the epidemic. And in principle, an oncologist is responsible for Hungarian health care, and the news is particularly shocking that in the death of cancer, Hungary is the towering leader of the European tabellas. This sad record is also held by Kasler and Viktor Orbán. This is where the health department keeps me today. Where is child protection, where is education? The government that sharpens its campaign to child protection and launches some insane, insanely stupid kamunap vote about it, covers the streets with posters where children are threatened with sexual propaganda, or now the next word is posted, I quote:, ElkXrtuk. That's how we managed to cover the streets of the country. Congratulations on child protection. But this academic year also started with 12,000 fewer teachers in place, one in three chemistry teachers missing in this country. Obviously, it's also a huge success. They went forward in higher education with the demise of Student City and the relocation of Fudan University. And if we look at how they stand with regard to economic indicators: inflation is speeding up, public debt is slowly breaking down historical peaks, and the rise in wages and pensions is nowhere. The debt has increased by more than HUF 1500 billion in the last week, with a debt of HUF 160,000 for all Hungarians and a foreign exchange debt. And we don't get the EU money because no one grants non-refundable subsidies to such a corrupt government. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Credit!]] And they didn't even ask for the loan. Compared to this, what's going well is 1 percent and serving your own needs. At the Fidesz-Oligarchy, the 42-metre luxury yacht was replaced by 50 metres, the Orbán family is flying private with public money, and Lőrinc Cashier continues to draw the 20 million forints per hour he takes out of our pockets. [[14.50]] Now, that's what people were fed up with, so they're saying that we need to change very quickly. That's why they're pushing around the pre-election tents. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] ; therefore they say that 99 percent is much, much more than 1 percent, and therefore it must be in their interest to govern it for their sake. I understand you're afraid of pre-election, afraid of expressing people's opinions, which is why you hacked the pre-election with your Chinese friends, but we're going first. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Are you serious?]] I understand you're hoping it's a Stop Gyurcsány! Stop Christmas! They'll stop the opposition with a campaign, but they won't be able to stop the people, the majority of society. And while you're playing for sharing, there's someone who builds the common denominator, who gives the common denominator, and this is Gergely Christmas. We'll drive you away next spring, under his leadership. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties. Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties: Oh! Applause?]]
u2021-09-20-20	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2021-09-20-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Well, against you, let's say the WHO has a completely different view of the Hungarian epidemic treatment. This summer, the WHO Director General said: I congratulate the public and the Hungarian government on their joint efforts to keep themselves safe. And in the past, they said that the vaccination campaign that is taking place in Hungary is exemplary. Several times, both the head of offices in Budapest and the WHO regional director, and finally the World Director General of WHO, have acknowledged that we have managed to reduce the rate of infection, Hungary has correctly applied the anti-explosion measures and was one of the first to overcome the coronal virus epidemic. And, honourable Member, we have managed to avoid things like those in other countries where there wasn't enough capacity in hospitals, and therefore patients have been cured in hotels. [[Bence Tordai and Gergely Arató keep interrupting.]] In countries richer than us, or in hospital parking lots, they breathed the patients. We have managed to avoid, as in other countries, that the patients were transported by trains to the capital, or that, as in Switzerland, they were asked to make a final provision for what treatment they wanted and what they did not, although Switzerland is a symbol of prosperity in the eyes of many, honourable Member, but such measures were taken there, and they did not have to be taken in Hungary, thanks to all those involved in defence. And we've seen that you've done everything you can, made fake news, made fake camuvideos and made a reputation, tried to embarrass our country abroad. Not only did they say that Parliament did not meet, but they also spread that there was not enough protective equipment, but the WHO personally confirmed that what the Hungarian Left states in Hungary and abroad is not true. Honourable Congressman, You have once again made a false statement, and it seems that this autumn session will be about the fact that your false statements are being refuted by facts, honourable Member, because if we look at it, you have said that the highest mortality rates are in Hungary. If we look at the mortality surplus of last year and this year compared to 2019, then we are not talking about the figures you said at all, because in Hungary in 2020 and last year, the 12th is the lowest number of deaths compared to the previous year. Here we could tell how many countries are behind us, where the figure was unfortunately higher than that of Hungary: France, Malta, Croatia, Portugal, Slovakia, the Netherlands, the EU average, Lithuania, Romania, Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Belgium, Slovenia, Poland, Italy and Spain. And if I look at this year, which is not yet a round year, so we will be able to give a full number at the end of the year, but here we can see that the V4 has the lowest excess mortality in Hungary compared to 2019, and there are more Central European countries behind us in this list than there have been fewer deaths. So, Congressman, what you said is factually, numerically not true, and every time you can say it to Balliberal newspapers, it won't be true. And it was also one of your false rumors of how and how the number of people working in the hospital changes, but we can say that the number of doctors working in the new service has increased by 1283 since March; the number of nurses has increased by 1794; and the number of additional health workers has increased by 802. This means that there are nearly 4,000 more new health services today than there were in March, yet you claim that these numbers are falling, while these figures have already been presented, Mr President, they have increased. What you said about the referendum is outrageous! I have written it literally: a lunatic vote, honourable Member. I think most Hungarian people don't think so. The majority of Hungarian people believe that their children must be protected from being tried in kindergarten by different LGBT organizations without control, even against the view of parents, re-educating their children without any control, without the knowledge of the parents. Yet you say that this is a crazy lie. If you read the news about how much absolutely absurd events in Europe and in countless countries around the world have been happening, which we have laughed at in Brian's and the Walking Galop, and they are now becoming a reality, because the Liberals have either implemented them all, or they are trying to suppress or deter those in our position by criminal means, and you say that they are insanely bogus. See in countless countries around the world how they really try to turn children into battlefields. It is not that politicians are arguing in Western Europe or North America, but that this battlefield is being transferred from parliament and political debates to kindergartens and elementary schools, and there they want to rearrange the future generation according to their own LGBT and genderideology. This is not a fake, honourable Member, but a question that needs to be protected against Hungarian children. You have spoken, honourable Member, about the need for more teachers while under your left-wing governance. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] 15,000 teachers were laid off, one month's salary was taken from each teacher, and teacher training paid off. After that, you'd better not talk about it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Interjection from the same place: That's right!]]
u2021-09-20-22	Now it's time for LMP's representative, Péter Ungár. I give you the floor.
u2021-09-20-23	Me?
u2021-09-20-24	Yeah. [[Péter Ungár: I'm sorry, I didn't understand...]] If you're Peter the Ungár, then... you should know that. Here you go.
u2021-09-20-25	I probably know, thank you very much. Thank you for the opportunity. Dear House, There's been a lot going on today, and a lot of stuff has been posted, and they're collecting signatures against different fantasies. The fact is, however, that there is a part of the Hungarian state, a part of the state's tasks that is not addressed, which is clearly a failure story for the last 11 years. Actually, they're not gonna be able to explain that, except that if Bence Retvári, when he talks about raising salaries, he never says a specific number. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Yes! Always!]] Or amount, but always percentages. If that is not the case, then we can see that there is truth in what they say. Looking at older care for the first time, it is clear that the state's role in caring for older people has largely ceased. You have either given the church a significant portion of the elderly care, or what is going on in the informal space, so at home in the home care area, and there you have actually done nothing. Now, when Bence Rétvári tells us that the home care fee has been increased: caregivers who are not their children at home, Honourable Secretary of State, how much they are getting now, at present, from the government to care for their relatives living with dementia, for example, for a period of 0-24 hours. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Much more than your time...]] The answer is 50,000 forints or so, 50,000 forints! It's a so-called fact about your last 11 years of government. Furthermore, the people who work for the Hungarian state, we have seen this particularly in the epidemic situation, how important work they are doing, earning extremely bad money. Let's say it's a good thing they get a one-time pay supplement from the armed forces, but the prison guard at Szombathely earns HUF 230,000 net, that's his monthly salary. It's a lease I've seen, it's not on a poster, or it wasn't told in public TV by an allitering, weird person, it's reality. For example, if children's protection workers like to talk about child protection, child protection workers in the Hungarian child protection system have a child protection worker who earns HUF 188 thousand net with 16 years of work. This is also a so-called fact, an existing payment paper, to which you can say to this professional that Ferenc Gyurcsány may have another personal name, they may say one thing that they read in Canada and upset you, but he still earns 188 thousand forints. Furthermore, the beginner educator does not really earn more than 185 thousand forints net, and this is also seen from the fact that he will repeat the Gyurcsány government, or that when I graduated, what happened, but the fact is that the chemistry physics teachers have actually become exotic animals dying in Hungary, there will be no such training if there is no such training in science education, which is traditionally one of Hungary's strongest education systems, the right person to do it. The fact is that the last real wage increase in the public sector was in 2002; since then there has been no significant wage increase in the public sector. Since then, the public sector workers have received only alms, and especially from the Orbán government. [[15.00]] If we look at the average wage for social sector workers in 2010 was at what percentage of the average wage was, and we compare the two, it was 70 percent. By 2020, it became 40 percent, so it decreased. But I will go on: social workers have been left out of a one-time payment of HUF 500,000, and it is completely incomprehensible what they should have received for their incredible work during the coronal virus epidemic, as received by health workers. I ask the Secretary of State to give me a sane argument, in which there is a subject and a claim as to why the social workers did not receive this one-off HUF 500,000, which would have cost the budget a total of HUF 45 billion, while they have spent 85 billion so far for the World Hunting Exhibition, but this amount changes about every minute. I am sure that people who take part in the pre-election and vote for the individual candidates of LMP and Gergely Christmas will be able to participate in this pre-election by having a government at the centre of which will have the knowledge that the caring work, the civil servants and those who work in the public administration will finally be appreciated, because there will be no change in the welfare system in Hungary if employees in the public sector are worked for hunger. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-20-26	Once again, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-09-20-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You're saying we're fighting imaginary opponents. I believe that you have entered this competition, too, if that were the case. Let me quote you a sentence that you have called your current allies your opponents. And I wouldn't even go to the right-wingers now, because we've told you in this room many times how you talk about the right-wingers when they're still in a guard vest and not under a rainbow flag. Well, what did you say about your allies, DK and Momentum? You can discuss it with the representative who is sitting next to you. He said that, of course, it is not bad in itself that he became a liberal opposition to the Orbán government, because DK and Momentum are both liberal parties. But we can't pretend this situation came up on its own. That's how it went down, it's our responsibility, our responsibility, LMP's, and the socialists' responsibility. We spoilt you when you buried the entire opposition on the left, honourable Member. So much for imaginary or real opponents. So you're saying a lot worse about the left than we're saying. But look at the numbers. You said you wanted to hear numbers about how we were able to help those who really needed outside help to carry their lives as far as possible in the normal environment. The number of people receiving home assistance: 75,000 people received this during your left-wing governance, and now 92,000. Instead of 75,000, we extended this to 92,000 people. The number of people employed in the profession, i.e. those who help these people and have a professional qualification, has risen from 5700 to 12 900. That is, the number of people who can help care has doubled. So they can help a lot more people and a lot more intensely. What is the amount of aid per capita? This rose from 145 thousand forints to 378,000 forints. So there are no more employees in vain, as more than one is the amount of care given by the budget. Thus, the amount of domestic assistance, which was 25 billion HUF last year, will be 36 billion HUF next year. The child care fee and the home care fee, which you mentioned, honourable Member, you have not voted for, we have raised it to HUF 55 billion from HUF 15 billion, with which we have taken over. Well, you have not supported this, honourable Member. So everyone gets more. And it is also important to determine the minimum wage for next year, because those who raise their own child in their own home, which is not capable of self-preservation, and the childhood here does not last until the age of 18, but as long as their parents live, will receive the total minimum wage instead of the twenty thousand forints they received at the beginning of our government; or it was a maximum of 30 thousand forints. This is the difference: 30 thousand and 200 thousand; this is the difference in the measure of care. We have raised this to the minimum wage level. You told me about the elderly. How much did your left-wing government intend for a stay in a residential nursing home? 635 thousand forints. And how much are we spending on this now? A million more than 110 thousand forints. Then he mentioned people with dementia. How much did the left spend on treating people with dementia? 710,000 forints each. And we are now spending a million and 321 thousand forints on this, honourable Member. While you give me the feeling that these amounts are falling, contrary to all your statements, honourable Member, whether the specific numbers, the number of persons provided, the number of employees as caregivers and the budget expenditure either the total amount of the budget or the amount spent on the caregivers, it is clear that the opposite of what you mentioned is true. You also say that there is a decrease in the number of elderly homes and the number of beds. This has certainly risen from 54 500 to nearly 60 thousand, honourable Member. It is not true, therefore, that this would be reduced, but this has also increased, honourable Member. And now it has come to light, although it is usually spoken of by those who, on the hunger march, travel in their pockets with a hundred million-dollar bank statement, how many people are in need. Well, in 2010, when the left was steered, the number of people living in severe material deprivation couldn't afford an unexpected expense, who couldn't replace their washing machine within a month, if it went wrong, they didn't have the money to eat meat every two days, they couldn't go on a one-week holiday, they couldn't heat their apartment, or they had other rent and other problems, or they didn't have a TV or a car for financial reasons, according to Eurostat's statements, and today they're around 764 thousand. Thus, the number of people considered to be in need has decreased by two thirds as shown by Eurostat. It would not be good for you to reverse this process and things to go the wrong way again. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-28	Now it's time for Gergely Arató, on behalf of DK.
u2021-09-20-29	Thank you very much. Dear House, We've got the fifth power of attorney before us. In his view, it is necessary to protect itself against new viral variants. Well, the spread of the epidemic is undeniably accelerating, and the Prime Minister accidentally told the truth, but this government has not been disturbed at all, because despite the existing mandate, it was possible to participate without limitation in football-Eb, fireworks, eucharistic world conventions, or even at the World Hunting Exhibition. It seems to be a very well-trained virus that does not infect the Prime Minister and the Fidesz elite's favorite hobbies. Of course, that's not what we need this power of attorney law for. To spend any money, not only on this mandate, but also on the basis of this mandate, but also on spending public money from the budget for your kind purposes; so that you can spend any money bypassing Parliament's control of not too much steel; for example, to get to 216 billion sports goals, 181 billion to the churches, 150 billion to the border, 186 billion to tourism for your friends, 84 billion to turn the Buda Castle into a government quarter, and I could continue. And you say it's for the epidemiology defense, but that's not it. For the sake of proportion alone, 592 million per day for sports purposes, 496 million per day for church purposes, in addition to budget appropriations, and 167 million per day for health care. Well, so much for the epidemiology defense. And don't say that this has nothing to do with the social matters that we are mentioning, because this is why there is no extra wage increase for the prison guard you mentioned earlier, Congressman Ungar, and on which Mr Secretary of State could not answer how much he was going to rise. That's why teachers don't get extra wages, for example, for chemistry and physics teachers, I'm one of them because of my original profession, and we're really running out of people, and I could keep going. But there is also a general lesson here. The fact that you have been maintaining an out-of-constitutional, out-of-law legal order for a year and a half now, according to the current legislation, shows that your Fundamental Law is worthless. The sole purpose of this Fundamental Law is to ensure and guarantee the unlimited theft of your unlimited power and its cover. Even this Fundamental Law states, like the previous Constitution, that no one's activities should be aimed at the violent acquisition or exercise of power or the exclusive possession of it. That is exactly what this Fundamental Law allows. Therefore, be clear, Klára Dobrev, the Democratic Coalition, will not tremble when this Fundamental Law is to be thrown into the trash. [[15.10]] You may believe that the election fraud, the two-thirds of them brought together with the personalized electoral law, or, I'm sorry, one-third of them will be able to prevent that, but we will not allow them to hide behind the two-thirds laws! If the people clearly judge you and this Fundamental Law, then the Democratic Government, led by Dobrev Klára, will have the courage and power to break these cuffs with which you are obstructing the will of the people. [[Sándor Font: Give a little more details on how to do this!]] If Péter Polt can be the Supreme incarcerated forever Prosecutor, in order to defend your authority, this solution is unconstitutional and unsustainable. If the Budgetary Council has been given a right of veto to prevent the next Parliament from deciding and your power to remain informal, then this is unconstitutional and unsustainable. If the Media Council has been cemented to maintain the unconstitutional unilateral occupation of the media, then this solution is unconstitutional and unsustainable. [[Sándor Font: We wait for the opinion of the Constitutional Court on this!]] If the Constitutional Court was filled [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] In order to maintain your unlimited and unconstitutional power, this Constitutional Court is not sustainable. [[Sándor Font: Will you stop it? The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] The thing is, you shouldn't be scared...
u2021-09-20-30	Congressman, listen to me for a second. [[Here you go, Mr. President.]] First of all, I would like to ask the pro-government Member not to interrupt the opposition Member, because this does not seem to be elegant either. Secondly, I've listened carefully to what you're saying, but you've reached that point, perhaps by provocation, which crosses the line of constitutionality, even though you have sworn to the Fundamental Law. No matter what you think of the Fundamental Law, you swore an oath to this Fundamental Law, because if you hadn't, you wouldn't be here as a representative. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] I would like to draw attention to the fact that you are not crossing the line on the criminal code, because what you are saying is against constitutional order, so far, it's just an instigation, and I don't want it to turn into an organization. You guys are talking about all kinds of stuff in public outside the parliament. You can afford that because you have freedom of speech, unlike any other celebrity. But you can't do that in this House, because I'm taking the floor from you to warn you of other serious consequences. Go on. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-09-20-31	The section of the Fundamental Law, quoted by me, continues in such a way that everyone is legally entitled and obliged to act in the face of such an endeavour, namely the pursuit of grabbing power. I'm exercising that right now, and I'm fulfilling my duty. Anyone who says that without two-thirds, you must not touch the two-thirds laws, your unconstitutional power, so don't take on government. We're not gonna be like this. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2021-09-20-32	Congressman! If you wish to change or abolish two-thirds of the laws without a two-thirds mandate, including the Fundamental Law, you will carry out an unconstitutional act, which is a criminal law category. Today, in this constitutional system, but also in the constitutional system before the Fundamental Law, I add that what is unconstitutional and what is not, alone, thirty years ago, according to the Fundamental Law alone, and according to the previous constitution, the Constitutional Court was and will be destined to decide. There is another brake, the brakes of the President of the Republic, who can return the laws or refer them to the Constitutional Court. So, in your last sentence, you threaten to do things that, I say again, you can do on the street who take you seriously, your soul on it, but in this House, you can't say that! It would be good to acknowledge this, and it would be good to acknowledge that your words have a weight, and you are the representative of a successor party that, by the way, has upset the constitutional order several times in Hungarian history. Don't let the 133 days happen again, because there will be 134, I assure you. Here you go. It's Balázs Orbán's turn. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-09-20-33	[[Without sound:]] Thank you very much for the floor. I have a little card problem. [[They put a hand mike in front of him.]] Thank you very much.
u2021-09-20-34	The cards must be used, honourable Members and gentlemen, including the Secretary of State. See if that'll help us communicate. If that's not the reason, then I apologize. Here you go.
u2021-09-20-35	No, no, it's my fault. Thank you very much. So, Honourable House, Honourable Congressman. We know your sense of democracy. We're 15 years after the fall speech. The lesson of the Autumn speech is that you have tried to govern in Hungary against the will of the people. When they admitted that they lied in the morning, at night and at night, and the Hungarian people tried to express their displeasure about this, they conducted a horse-riding attack against the Hungarian people. As a result, 314 civilians had to be cared for, almost 400 police officers were injured due to unprofessional leadership, more than 200 police officers were prosecuted, 16 people were seriously injured, and no police or political leaders were held accountable, and you even awarded these people. This is the idea of democracy that you have. Agnes Vadai, sitting next to you, said among the walls of Parliament the following, I think, shameful sentences: there is no question that citizens should not exercise their democratic fundamental rights freely; they should only be aware of the consequences that might arise in the event of such a right. This is your Bolshevik sense of rule of law and democracy, which I think is outrageous 15 years later. Let me join you in what the Speaker said: on Tuesday, 8 May 2018, a Tuesday, around 12 a.m., here in the Parliament building in this Chamber, I will quote you: I, Gergely Arató, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others, and to exercise my position as Members of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. You have violated this oath in your speech. [[Sándor Font: That's right!]] You've become a conspirator, Your Honour. I do not understand, and the Hungarian people do not understand why they think that today in Hungary 2021 a Member of Parliament can do this by breaking his oath and vows. What about honor? I would like to wish you every success in your moral and public ambush. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-09-20-36	László Varga, representative of the MSZP. I give you the floor, please.
u2021-09-20-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Minister Lords! Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The country is experiencing an extraordinary period, and perhaps the opinions have never been so far apart; the trenches are deepening. This is not what I was going to talk about at the beginning of my speech before the agenda, but I am shocked that it is as if the parties and the opposition parties were talking about a completely different country, as if we were living in two completely different countries, and that is to say that this certainly does not bring forward the fate of the country, which is happening here in these hours. It's been a tough year and a half for this country. We are experiencing an amazing epidemic that has not been experienced in previous decades, and we are just ahead of the fourth wave. This has been extremely difficult for society, it has been hard for families, small pensioners continue to be poor, and a significant part of Hungarian society lives in extremely difficult financial conditions. What I see is that on the government side you seem to ignore this and build a kind of success propaganda, which we have heard here in the previous hours, which in no way encounters the experience of the Hungarian people, at least it does not encounter the experience of the vast majority of them. This very disappointing situation, which has been in this country for the past year and a half, has been the case in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county and in my hometown Miskolc, and was also used as a side-field for another struggle, it was thought in the last year and a half that they would buy a rep for the result of the municipal election. They suffered a very serious defeat, so it was in Miskolc, and they actually built a policy during this period on how to make external conditions difficult for opposition-led municipalities to get into a difficult situation, even to the detriment of those living there. [[15.20]] We've had a lot of experience before, haven't we, that when it comes to major developments, big investment, real big investment, you don't remember Miskolc's name. We have also experienced this in connection with the BMW, which Debrecen won as a potential investment in mechanical engineering traditions that are in Miskolc, I think it would have been in the right place in Miskolc, and there are many other things I could have mentioned in this period, but I do not consider it, because I think that basically people have passed judgments on their work in the region in the municipal elections. The Miskolcs received a difficult legacy, the new city administration received a difficult legacy, as they owed billions of dollars and public service fees to individual local government companies, which they did not pay during this period, for example, in the case of the transport company, the MVK did not pay more than four billion, and this is a hurtful lack of operation. But what we really didn't think was that you wouldn't bring it, but you would carry it, so you took the car tax away, and then your local people asked what was going on with the state of the roads, you took public transport's state support away, so that in this room, actually, Tamás Schanda promised that he would stay, and then he didn't, and it's impossible, under these circumstances, to run good relations with the right timetable. And, well, part of the business tax has been compensated, which, by their decision, has been taken away, is also hurtfully absent from city management in Miskolc, and hurtfully absent from development. This policy has terrible consequences for everyday life. My fellow Members could say such things in other cities, but I can only tell you about Miskolc about the terrible consequences. These resources are unsettlingly lacking in all aspects of life. What I can tell you is that after the change of government, we will return these resources to the municipalities, we will return them to Miskolc, we will give them back to the Miskolc, so that everyday life can work properly again, and Miskolc will also develop as the people who live there need. What's due is due. But until the change of government takes place, I want you to review these decisions. I myself tabled an independent motion to restore public transport support, invited Katalin Csöbör and György Hubay to this. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Fidesz MEPs in Miskolc. I ask you to support this motion, the transport company needs this source immediately. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-09-20-38	To reply, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-09-20-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the past year and a half has not been easy, so I thank everyone who has done their part in the defense. The epidemic, as in all difficulties, has brought out the essence of what it really is. He brought it out of the Hungarian doctors, who fought superhumanly; he brought it out of the law enforcement workers, who were also satisfied; he brought it out of the university students, that they could take on a community with everyone and take their share of the defense; and he brought it out of the left, because you, the anti-vaccine left, took a nasty turn, took a stand when you were making false news, took a stand when you demanded an opening at the beginning of the third wave, and you took part when campaigning against effective and safe vaccinations, honourable Member; and the local government leaders who only cried on Facebook, held various press conferences, but could not do anything meaningful, such as the Mayor of Budapest. Honourable Congressman, It should also be clear and clear that the national civilian government is the best ally in the settlements. It has already been mentioned in the Parliament today that the Hungarian governments have been rescued from the debt trap by this government, this side, from the debt trap that you caused, where you kicked in the Hungarian governments. [[Dr. László Varga intervenes.]] That is the case, Mr Congressman, and you know that exactly, you have had to take over HUF 1400 billion of debt from the Hungarian municipalities, because you have created a situation where the management of the municipalities was unsustainable. Honourable Congressman, On the other hand, it is clear and clear that the national civilian government can be counted on regardless of the size of the municipalities. We protect the local governments, we help their work; it is enough that you look at the budget for next year, where the support of Hungarian municipalities is 16 percent higher. Congressman, this is a fact: the support of municipalities is 16 percent higher. But it's enough that if you look at the different points of the country, you can see clearly if you don't want to lie about the results, how the country is built and beautiful. These results, honourable Member, are not worth lying to anyone who does this, but a simple political manipulator, I am asking you, honourable Member, not to do so. [[Dr. László Varga: Secretary of State, you said yourself that the support will remain. There's a limit to everything.]] Honourable Congressman, He also knows precisely that the national civil government has always been the government of tax reductions, and we believe in tax reductions. We believe that the more taxes need to be reduced, the greater the problem is that with this, the more money remains with families, the more money remains with businesses, because the tax increases that you dream and dream about do not actually strengthen, but weaken the economy. That is why it was an important decision of the civilian government to ban municipalities from raising local or municipal taxes, introducing new taxes or abolishing existing tax incentives in 21 in a regulation, because, honourable Member, and you know it very well, the left-wing authorities were preparing for this. 2021 was a year of defence, and everyone had to take their share of the costs. At the same time, it should be clear and clear that every Hungarian settlement can count on the government. By the way, if we look at not only next year's budget but also this year's budget, we can see that it is 17 percent higher than last year's budget. It is also clear and clear that the local government's business tax revenues increased significantly between 2014 and 19 by more than 50 percent, and the tax reduction to help businesses and save money for businesses, and in this connection the Hungarian government helped municipalities regardless of party policy. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Miskolc received a billion HUF 350 million. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-40	Now it's James Peter's turn.
u2021-09-20-41	Thank you for the floor. You know, fellow Members, the problem is that you don't know the Hungarian reality, you don't have a shot at how Hungarian people live, you don't have a shot at what it's like to read the promotional newspaper with the promotional tesco, because with such prices and such wages, you can only expect action if you don't expect the government. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] Don't you think we should go out with people now, talk to them right now, ask them seriously, ask how they're doing? Or are they scared? Because what I see is that your Prime Minister is hiding behind the walls of the Castle in Buda, sending messages on billboards, or sending national consultations with the postmen working for alms, because he thinks that in his small world, the 90-year-old George Soros is there, that he wants to attack Hungary again before the elections, and this unfortunate government doesn't know what to do. Well, let's say we should get a referral to the mind, because the fools should be there, and I'm sorry they're sitting here. So, fellow Members, the thing is, the reality can only be shaped by the person who knows it, but only the person who knows it can make it better. Believe me, I don't travel the country to tell the Hungarians what their problems are, you think Soros. I don't travel the country to tell the Hungarians how you think they've never lived so well. I travel the country to ask from Miskolc to Sopron, from Nagykanizsa to Békéscsaba, how you live, what your problems are, what we can help you with. And I would add that no one has ever asked me to save her from the attack on Brussels and Soros, or that I don't know how to stop her child from having sex conversion surgery because she asked me to do it for Christmas; they don't ask me to do that. But a lot of people are asking that if I become Prime Minister of this country, then I should do everything I can to settle the wages, because Hungarians do not come out of their salaries; a lot of people are asking us to reduce taxes to support Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises; to do everything in order to make rural people worth as much as a capital city, and a Hungarian is worth as much as a Western European. [[15.30]] Well, we are 17 years after EU accession, and we are at a point where prices have reached the Western level, but wages remain eastern. When I talk to small pensioners, they say that lower pensions are raised by a higher percentage, because it doesn't happen that someone is working their life off for this country, let's say as a nurse, they were poor, and then, in their retirement years, we just condemn them to poverty, and in the middle of the month, a pensioner has to decide whether to buy medicine or cut them up, because they can't afford both. A lot of people have asked us to retire not only the ladies, but also the men after 40 years of work, because they're working so hard, they're gonna get fed up before they can put down the lute. They're right! Right now, six out of ten men will never retire, and they'll die before they can retire. It's a very economical retirement policy. It's just inhumane, you know? ! When I talk to law enforcement, [[Dr. István Nagy: You don't dare go there but with bodyguards! Come on.]] They say they want the service pension back, because let's believe they won't catch up to the robber when they're 60, and they can't climb the eighth floor to save lives; we'll let them rest, they'll pay for it. They're right too! When I talk to health workers, nurses, paramedics, they say that working conditions are bad, pay is low, they can't take the day off because there's no one to take over the baton, the system will collapse. Healthcare workers ask for nothing but quality working conditions, decent pay, respect, only what their colleagues who are persecuted in Western Europe will receive. When I talk to the young, they say they don't know where to start the capital life. The other day, a career teacher came up to me and said that Peter, I'm starting my career with 140,000 net. I graduated from college, and then the government tells me to start a family out of 140 net. Well, where to? Should I live with my parents, my dad, my mom until I'm 40, or should I take on a 20-year-old house loan? I don't know what's gonna happen next year, let alone in 20 years. You want me to rent out of 140 net? I can't do it. These young people are waiting for the state to launch a housing program, where these young people will gain time to strengthen their finances in preferential apartments. Then, of course, they'll have children if they have somewhere to go. Younger people say that they want quality education, not to learn to tolerate dead-tied teachers in 40 classrooms from 8:00 to 4:00 in the morning, but to teach them to think, solve problems, team up, cooperate, recognize when a government is trying to trick them. Believe me that this country wants nothing but what we were promised thirty years ago: freedom, prosperity and a predictable future, where predictability does not mean that Lőrinc Mészáros is always rich in predictability, but that there is a high-quality wage for quality work, a decent pension for decent living, but a prison for stealing. That's the predictability for us, that's what people asked us from Miskolc to Sopron, from Nagykanizsa to Békéscsaba, so that's what we're gonna do. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] And one more thing. As Prime Minister, I will not be sending messages from the Castle of Buda with billboards and national consultations, but I will be there among the people to ask them from time to time: what are your problems, how have they lived, how can we help them? For to us, government means service, not domination.
u2021-09-20-42	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2021-09-20-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I tried to look into the basic facts, preparing for this debate. You referred to Borsodra. I looked at, for example, how the average earnings were compared to the period of left-wing governance. [[James Peter: And Mary to Teresia how?]] Which is important because you joined this coalition. I listened to you, too. The average wage in your pepper was 165,000, now it's 337 thousand, which is double. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Half a million is the average salary, we know!]] Unemployment was 17.3 percent, which is now 5 percent, which is a third. Meanwhile, the average national earnings increased by 119 percent, more than double. Compared to this, you joined the coalition that nearly destroyed the country, and as regards wage increases, real wages increased by between 15% and a few percent during that period of government, compared with more than 70 percent under current governance. By the way, the next time you hold a street forum, please also provide information on the announcements made today, for example, about the government's decision to extend the credit moratorium. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Haha! After 18,000 evictions? I'd rather you didn't talk. Banker's government!]] Your coalition has put a foreign currency loan into the family's neck. A decision was made on the family tax refund, which alone could amount to hundreds of thousands of dollars for hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families. We will return the 13th month pension that your coalition, the coalition with Jobbik, has taken away from the Hungarian people during a period of economic crisis. As far as law enforcement workers are concerned, six months of arms money will be paid to members of the professional staff at the beginning of next year. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Why didn't they receive it for 11 years?]] This announcement was also made today. As regards the issue of young people, we help them to own their own property, not to spend the rest of their lives in renting homes, but to own them. Home renovation support can also help them. From January 1st, young people under the age of 25 will also say this, please, at the street forum! They shall be exempt from tax. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You really don't understand, you can't help it, you don't understand! James Peter: And what do those who learn receive?]] So while your coalition wants higher income tax, 25, 30, or even 40 percent, this government is releasing income tax to people under the age of 25. And when it comes to health care, please add that we are now spending 1700 billion more on health than the left you have joined. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: The second math magician was born!]] And let me tell you, it's not credible enough to listen to any lectures from Jobbik without any sound suggestions being made on your part. It's one thing to call this charade in the pre-election debate. is already outlined: the tax increase. They want to raise corporate tax, raise income tax, and increasingly say they want property tax. It will not be more wages, it will be less wages, or it will be because more income tax is to be paid, or because businesses have to pay more corporate taxes, so if I use Gergely Christmas's proposal, we will have 10 percent less room for manoeuvre, for example, that's what Gergely Christmas would take away. You often refer to people, people, workers, that's what you say. One summer day, we got a taste of what it's like to meet a guy at work. He got out against her just as aggressively as we used to in Parliament. You, the politician, were violent against him, you disturbed him in his work, and yet you raised him. [[Peter James: I'm sorry I didn't go to bed.]] He even threatened to sue me. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Crime, do you mind? That doesn't bother you, does it?]] Dear Chief of Staff, We're between you and me now. Did you really sue a workman after you interrupted his work? Really? ! [[Peter James: You're lying! Z. Kárpát Dániel: C category stand-up!]] If you're acting like this in front of the cameras, how do you behave when you're behind closed doors, Your Honour? And then we saw that he was a thug. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: A Author?]] He's being escorted to the events by figures. We don't know how many times this has led to battery, but we do know that a citizen was strangled in one of your forums. [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks, including Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! Peter James: Who threatened to fire a firearm.]] That's what you're saying. That's how it's done. Do you think that's okay? [[Peter James: Is it okay that he threatened to use a firearm?]] Be honest, Mr. President, and admit that you only dare to go with a crowded bodyguard to those you refer to here in this House from morning to evening. By the way, we do not have too many illusions, because without anything to say, we see that there is nothing left for Jobbik but the provocation and the role of the second violinist alongside Ferenc Gyurcsány's party. Feel free to present your provocations week after week, we will have the patience here, but the Hungarians may not be sure. [[Peter James: You're a parrot!]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-44	The last part of today's agenda will take place, and I give the floor to Mr László Böröcz. [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, I was wrong, I'm giving the floor to the second-to-last, and István Simicskó is next.
u2021-09-20-45	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the word and opportunity. Many words have already been said about relaunching the economy today, all of this is crucial, but it is important that spiritual reinforcement also takes place, and spiritual rebooting also takes place. This goal was also served by the Eucharistic World Congress held in Hungary from 5 to 12 September. Ladies and gentlemen, On 12 September Pope Francis celebrated in Heroes' Square, 250,000 people listened to it on the spot and hundreds of millions of people in the world. We know that the number of Catholics, people of Catholic denominations, is close to 1.4 billion people on Earth, nearly 20 percent of the population on Earth. The pope has not personally traveled to an Eucharistic World Congress in nearly thirty years. This is a huge recognition of the Hungarian people and the whole of Hungary. The Eucharist is a Greek word, Thanksgiving, and a gift of grace. Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. Vatican Council said that Eucharist is the peak and source of Christian life. [[15.40]] . Ubi eucharistia, ibi ecclesia, i.e., where the Eucharist is, there is the church. The great church was in Budapest, Hungary. A woman in southern France, Émilie-Marie Tamisier, organized a pilgrimage in Avignon in June 1874. Why did you do all this? He did it because at that time the so-called third republic took place in France, the anti-church liberalism was strengthened, the church was forced out of schools, the order of the monks was banned. From that time on, the Christian world will hold a regular eucharistic convention. In 1938, when Hungary was in the grip of Nazism and communism, we held an Eucharistic World Congress here in Budapest, Hungary. Think of it: Hitler has not allowed German and Austrian believers to attend this event. Hungary organized it then too. The importance of the 52nd Eucharistic World Congress is a huge and enormous recognition of Hungary's ability to organise all of this here. I say this because we all see, know and know the XXI. The challenges, dangers, threats of the century. Spiritual confirmation is essential. With the presence of His Holiness, the Pope also encouraged our faith, our standing up for our values, our preservation of our traditions, and the protection of families. Let's not let the family relativity. He told me that the family is nothing but a father, a mother, a child and a period. This confirmation was especially important to us, and it was important for the whole Christian world to hear and see it. At the same time, he spoke to the President of the Republic about our responsibility for the created world, the mission and mission of today's embe-rene. Allow me to thank the 20,000 people, and here I am thinking primarily of the clergy, the monks, but also the volunteers who participated in this incredible organizational work. Hungary was able to show the world how prepared it was for such a world convention. Ten or fifteen years ago, we wouldn't have been in a position to settle such a situation in such a high quality way. It was organized, and it was beautiful. In addition, Hungary was able to arrange this by performing a successful, effective defense over the third wave thanks to the vaccinations, so, just as the Japanese organized the Olympics, so many people here, 250,000 believers, were held in front of the Holy Mass. So it's a huge achievement. I would particularly like to thank Pope Ferenc for the brotherly love he has given to our Orthodox fellows and for his exemplary messages to the Ecumenian. We could host a global event, it was good to be there, fellow Members. Faith was a celebration of our entire Christian world. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-20-46	State Secretary Miklós Soltész has the floor.
u2021-09-20-47	Dear Parliament, It is worth talking a little about the history, about this event itself and, of course, about its follow-up. It is indeed part of the history that Mr. Group Leader said that for decades there has been no precedent, at least for more than two decades, that a Holy Father would have gone to the end of the Eucharistic World Congress or to any of its events. It is also important that, after this 21-year break, if I may say so, the World Congress was preceded by an earlier meeting five years ago in Cebu, where the Holy Father sent his letter announcing that Budapest would be the director. Then he knew who was running the country, and he gave Hungary this opportunity precisely because he knew that this country stood for both the families and the traditional values, and for the whole Christianity and the related teaching, at least the majority of it. So he didn't choose something, he chose something. It is just as important, of course, to have a great deal of media interest in why you've only come so long, why you've only been here for a few hours. You should all know that this is also a huge thing, and this is not the same as a visit to a country that, where appropriate, is anywhere on the part of Pope Francis himself, on behalf of the previous popes, on any part of the world, on the part of Pope Francis XVI. Benedek or II. It was on the part of John Paul. It wasn't a multi-day visit to the country, it was to participate in the closure of an event, let's say, at its climax. It is also important to know that there have been an incredible number of people involved in the preparation and the execution. You mentioned it yourself, Mr Group Leader, but I think it is worth repeating how many there were and who they were, at least what groups. Obviously, the leadership of the Hungarian Catholic Church, with Cardinal Péter Erdő and many, many other leaders. Their preparation for their work and their participation in the operation were fantastic. But it was equally important for about ten thousand or more volunteers, and it was important to have a professional presence, whether it be the defences, be it the police, the fire department, the ambulances and the secret services, or be the staff of the Counter-Terrorism Center. What they did was fantastic. I would add that, by the way, for the Mass on Saturday, which was before Kossuth Square, the staff of the parliamentary guard and the members of the Parliament have done a great deal, just as the performers have done a great deal. They've had a great time with a lot of performances, and they should be thanked, too. Of course, thank you to all those involved in technical organisation, sound and all other areas. It was a great thing to do, and you have to say it's world-class. Everyone said that, wherever the participants came from, from the Far East, the Middle East, South Europe, Africa or any part of America, everyone said that the construction was fantastic and great. I believe that what Pope Francis finally said at the Holy Mass tells us is that he has given special thanks to all those who have put so much effort into implementing this eu-charistic convention and this day. Once again, when I express my gratitude to the state and religious leaders who have received me, I would like to say thank you, people of Hungary. And then, in an unconventional manner, he said in Hungarian: "I say with you and for you, God, bless the Hungarian!" These sentences tell you everything. Of course, it also says a lot, and it is worth saying a few words, not much, only half a minute, that although the holiday could not be ruined by left-wing media, left-wing politicians, there were some interesting things. Fake rumors that the Pope was coming or not, dreamed of putting us on the edge of the rug by the Holy Father. This was true in relation to the fact that some of us actually stood at the airport and received it and then said goodbye, and by the way, he did side with the country. As he thanked the whole country, Ferenc Gyurcsány and the whole DK abused Christians this week. To add, the always authentic New York Times spoke of the Pope's visit to Romania. I'm not even talking about how the mayor on the left during the Anthem couldn't take his hat off. This tells us everything about the opposition's thinking. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-20-48	Then we have just arrived at the end of the speeches on the agenda, and I am giving the floor to László Böröcz now.
u2021-09-20-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am always surprised when my fellow opposition Members talk about love, that they speak to us in the language of love, and this is something quite strange, as a train, that comes before us here in the Chamber, because here is the hatred, incitement and threat that we usually receive from you. Gergely Arató's speech before the agenda, although he is not in the room now, suggests something quite futuristic and quite amazing before us, and in this connection allow me to read to you the idea of Professor John Lukacs, which I might recommend to you for consideration:, I am convinced that the speech is not simply the result of the thought, but often vice versa, that one who speaks, influences or even sometimes determines his thoughts. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[15.50]] If your speech defines your thoughts, you might want to pay attention to that, in case you get mixed up in some very dark place. And so he goes on to say, Professor, if you think that you should never say bad things about others, at least in very common cases you try not to think bad about them. So I believe that Jobbik believes that it should not speak ill of Ferenc Gyurcsány, and you seem to believe it today and believe it. Actually, I wanted to talk to you about it, because it's also an interesting point that we've been through two major economic crises here, or at least we're halfway through the second one, over the last two decades. One is the 2008 economic crisis, the Great Depression, and the other is the crisis caused by the Crown Virus epidemic, which started in 2020, right? In order to solve both crises, government measures were needed, and I think this shows very well and makes it comparable what a right-wing government's solution is and what a left-wing government's crisis management is like. It also makes this comparison interesting that in the end we get quite different. The crisis management of Gyurcsány brought down living standards in almost all segments of society, reduced incomes, pensions, families and businesses. On the other hand, in the second year of the crisis, the Orbán government's measures have led to record employment levels, we have heard that 4.7 million today and, otherwise, wages are constantly increasing. But why the difference between the two crisis management? To me, I think the answer to this is very simple, otherwise, or at least a very simple answer can be given. The answer is also in Prime Minister Gyurcsány's words, who openly said that it was a lie. Yes, my fellow Members, it was the lie on which the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány and the left had built their policies, and obviously could not get out of this spiral of lies. As a result, Hungary was in crisis in 2008 before the crisis. The result of this was that from 2004 someone looked at economic indicators, that Hungary was constantly starting to break away from its regional competitors, and as a result, they were able to lie and legislate in an election campaign in 2006 to reduce taxes, and immediately after the elections, they increased the taxes on people. The price of incompetence and lies can also be seen in numbers. Before the crisis, however, the budget deficit disappeared in 2008. In fact, the general government deficit was 9.2 percent and 5 percent in 2006 and 2007, and the debt increased by 7 percentage points even in the two years before the crisis. Moreover, debt has decreased by 9 percent in the last three years before the crisis, so that the baselines can be put together. So during the Gyurcsány government, during the two years prior to the crisis, public debt increased by 7 percent, and in the three years before the crisis caused by the coronal virus, it decreased by 9 percent. The public debt-to-GDP ratio, as I said, has decreased, and in addition, unemployment has decreased to 3.5 percent in recent years, and this has not been the case in your time. And if we add that, [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] The fact that under the Gyurcsány government, we managed to increase the government debt by selling the state's assets makes it even worse. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-50	Csaba Dömötör has the floor.
u2021-09-20-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to refer a little back to the earlier stage of the debate. Here we have heard several phone calls, partly addressed to the Prime Minister on behalf of the opposition parties. This is strange because, while the whole country and the governing parties were fighting the epidemic, the left was occupied with nothing but his own ambitions of power and pre-election, they gave no substantial support to overcome economic difficulties. Well, it's shocking that they can't arrange an online primary, the system collapsed, and we can see the desperate attempt to pin this on someone else, but it's not gonna work. One thing's for sure: less bodyguards, fewer city councillors and more IT guys would have been good for the whole thing. [[Noise, more people talking standing up.]] After that, the whole country has the right to ask the left how they can lead a country. The answer is to do nothing, at most, like before 2010, and not to do that. As far as economic aspects are concerned, it has proved to be a good decision during the epidemic that the government has always targeted the preservation of jobs. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] This is why unemployment can be below 4 percent again: 4.7 million people are working, which means a new record level. Meanwhile, wages have also increased: gross average earnings have increased by almost 8 percent compared to a year ago. This annual figure is not as high as it was a year ago, but it is a serious weapon that wages have also increased during the epidemic. And that is true of the lowest lawsuits, but that is no reason to stop, so the minimum wage may increase to HUF 200,000. If this is achieved, it means that the minimum wage will increase to nearly three times under current governance, and it also means that under the Orbán governments, the minimum wage could be as much as the average wage under left-wing governments. Mr President, There's one more thing I'd like to discuss. It was a few days ago that the autumn speech was made public, the most shameful political speech in recent decades, because this speech really showed the face of left-wing politics, that they were not doing what they were told to Hungarians. And the consequences have shown that when it comes to keeping power, the left can cross any line. 15 years ago, left-wing parties used violence against their own people, against people who protested peacefully, but didn't think the same thing about the world as you did. I was one of the protesters, by the way, and I was on the streets with thousands of other young people because I thought the autumn speech was scandalous and rotten to the core, and I would have protested just because a Prime Minister had a letter in his own country. I could have been one of those people whose eyes had been blown out or who had been beaten with a baton, and, as we know, we had a fellow Member who did this to us. If you are now asking in this House why an event of 15 years ago has to be dealt with, the answer is simple: the left has not changed at all if it is a violent policy, and unfortunately there is no difference between the left-wing parties from the Dialogue to the Jobbik. Ferenc Gyurcsány, for example, threatens artists with ground running, and others with prison in general. The President of the Momentum is threatening to ban journalists, if he doesn't go into a newspaper office to threaten them directly or throw smoke grenades at cops. All left-wing parties were involved in the occupation of the TV headquarters. The president of the MSZP threatens public administration workers by replacing them, Gergely Christmas locks their bank accounts on a political basis, and there have been cases of Peter James's thugs strangling a citizen. Now, let's ask ourselves what these politicians would do if they had a little more power in their hands and if the cameras didn't go. Dear Left Representative, Ladies and Gentlemen, No matter how they behave, this isn't the '50s. They can increase violent politics, increase provocations, we have seen it today, we will tolerate it, the Hungarians will give their views on this in the elections, they have said it out loud three times, and they will do it for the fourth time. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-52	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Ádám Steinmetz to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2021-09-20-53	Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, independent; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Anita Kőrösi, Jobbik; Andrea Varga-Damm, independent; Gergely Arató, DK; László Varju, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; László Hajdu, DK; Anett Bősz, DK; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik. Tamás Mellar, Dialogue; Krisztina Hohn, LMP; Lajos Oláh, DK; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP; János Halász, Fidesz. [[16.00]] Andrea Varga-Damm, independent; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Bence Tuzson, Fidesz; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik and Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik.
u2021-09-20-54	Dear House, President János Áder sent a transcript to Parliament on the termination of the office of State Secretary and the appointment of a new State Secretary. I would like to ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript of Mr. President's transcript.
u2021-09-20-55	Mr. László Fat, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 202. § 2 and Article 205 Mr László Sors, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, was relieved of this mandate on 6 July 2021 on the basis of the Prime Minister's proposal, and I appointed Ference Vágujhelyi as State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance with effect from 8 July 2021. Budapest, 5 July 2021 Sincerely, János Áder.
u2021-09-20-56	Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate Mr Ferenc Váguyhelyi on his work. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] I declare that there have been motions to suspend the immunity of Members of Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs Jobbikos, Mr János Stummer Jobbikos and Mr György Simonka Fidesz. I've issued these to the immunity committee for examination. I would like to inform you that the immunity committee has submitted its proposal for a decision in all cases, so that the suspension of immunity will be decided on this day, in the course of decisions following immediate questions. Dear Parliament, We now have a mandate certificate and an oath from our representatives. I would like to inform the House that the National Election Committee has issued a parliamentary mandate for the joint party list of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association and the Christian Democratic People's Party to Dr. Zsuzsanna Vitályos Eszter. The committee for the examination of mandates held before the meeting and, on the basis of the electoral documents, Dr. Eszter Vitalyos concluded the regularity of his credentials and examined them more precisely. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee on immunity, who will report the results of the examination of the mandate to the Parliament.
u2021-09-20-57	Dear Parliament, As has been said, Member L. Simon László has resigned his mandate with effect from 29 August. The nominating organisation, in this case Fidesz and KDNP, indicated this vacant place to the National Election Committee, the National Election Committee 25/2021. It was issued to Eszter Vitalyos by decision No. This resolution became final at 4 p.m. on 2 September. The mandate was received by the Member on the 6th of September 2021. The immunity committee met today, reviewed the usual documents, and found them to be in order. We have also recorded the Member's statement that there is no conflict of interest against him, and therefore the Committee on immunity was able to decide unanimously and recommends to the Parliament that we issue this mandate to Dr. Eszter Vitalyos, Member of Parliament. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-20-58	Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the report on the outcome of the examination of mandates cannot be submitted. The mandate shall be certified by the Parliament without debate. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machines. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check. Present: 163; away: 35.]] I ask the honourable Members that there is someone whose voting machine is not working. [[István Bajkai reporting.]] Congressman István Bajkai. Is there anything else? [[No signal. Dr. István Bajkai: It's good now.]] It's working. Then it's time for a decision. So I ask this House to justify the mandate of Dr. Zsuzsanna Vitályos. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House has unanimously confirmed the mandate of Mr Zsuzsanna Vitalyos, with 167 votes in favour and no votes against and no abstentions. Now it is the solemn oath of the elected congresswoman and then the signature of the oath papers. I ask Dr. Eszter Zsuzsanna Vitalyos to come to the middle of the Chamber and take his oath. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to read the text of the oath, and I would ask those in the Chamber to listen to it standing up as usual. [[The people in this room stand up. Dr. Zsuzsanna Vályos steps into the center of the room. Attila Móring József reads the text of the oath.]]
u2021-09-20-59	I, Dr. Zsuzsanna Vitályos Eszter, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its laws, and to keep them with others; to exercise my office as Members of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-20-60	The oath papers will now be signed. I would ask Mr Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature, and I would ask the Member to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Dr. Eszter Zsuzsanna Vitalyos and gives a copy of the signed oath document.]] Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate you on the election of a Member, and to wish you good luck and good health for your work. Dear Parliament, I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is 199. [[Orbán, Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Dr. István Simicskó, Máté Kocsis, Dr. Zita Gurmai, Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Dr. László Lóránt Keresztes, Gergely Arató, Sándor Burány, Katalin Novák and Imre Ritter congratulates Dr. Zsuzsanna Vitályos. Applause.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that no consensus was reached at last week's meeting of the House Committee on the proposed working schedule of the National Assembly's autumn session in 2021, and therefore Parliamentary Act 13. Pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section 6 of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the working order. [[Noise.]] The Rules of Procedure shall be decided by the Parliament within the meaning of Article 4 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. (Noise) The proposed working schedule was available to my fellow Members on the website. If my fellow Members can show sufficient attention, I would like to continue with the information, because it is now time for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the proposed working schedule for the autumn part-session in 2021. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that by 132 votes in favour, 34 votes against, without abstention, the working schedule was adopted by the House. [[16.10]] I would like to inform you that the government has submitted a legislative programme for the autumn session, which interested parties have been able to learn on the IT network. The State Audit Office has put forward its recommendation, which is also available on the IT network. Dear Parliament, Due to the fact that the number of members of the Christian Democratic People's Party and the Movement for Jobbik Hungary became the same, the notaries decided on 8 June 2020 on the order of the speeches. Decision No 17/B. Under paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article, the order of the speeches varies from one ordinary session to the first floor of the group entitled to speak, and the other group is moved one way back. In view of the fact that the number of political groups is still in place, the KDNP Group will be ahead of the Jobbik Group in the autumn part-session of 2021 in order of interpellation, oral and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now deciding on emergency proposals. It was initiated by the national authority that T/17053 amending Act I of 2021 on the control of the Corrovirus pandemic. The Parliament shall also discuss the number of proposals under urgent procedure at this meeting. Mr Lajos Szűcs, please describe the emergency proposal.
u2021-09-20-61	For Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules Parliamentary resolution, hereinafter referred to as the House Rule 60 of the Rules of Procedure. On behalf of the Government, pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act I of 2021 amending Act I on the Protection of the Crown Virus World Epidemic, T/17053. Urgent trial of bill No 1. The urgent negotiation of the bill should be adopted as soon as possible, due to the immediate implementation of government tasks in response to the consequences of the SARS-CoV-2 coronal virus pandemic causing a mass disease. I propose that
u2021-09-20-62	Dear House, I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members present to order an urgent hearing. I'm asking you, T/17053. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has 136 votes in favour, 32 against, with no abstention... [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, I can't see properly, and the sign isn't clear enough. So the House has ordered an urgent hearing by 135 votes to none, 32 votes to none, without abstention. Dear Parliament, It was initiated by the author that T/17098 on rules to facilitate the competitive functioning of higher education institutions and on the amendment of certain laws on property management, government administration and criminal law. The Parliament shall also discuss the number of proposals under urgent procedure at this meeting. I would ask Mr. Ádám Steinmetz to present the emergency proposal.
u2021-09-20-63	For Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 60. On behalf of the Government, pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act T/17098, on rules to facilitate the competitive functioning of higher education institutions and on the amendment of certain laws on property management, government administration and criminal law. Urgent trial of bill No 1. Urgent negotiation is necessary because of the rapid adoption of the bill and the immediate implementation of government tasks arising from regulatory proposals. I propose that the general debate of the bill be held on Tuesday, 21 September 2021 as item 2 of the agenda; that an amendment be submitted on Tuesday, 21 September 2021 until the end of the sitting; that the detailed discussion phase be opened with the conclusion of the general debate of the bill; that the Legislative Committee be referred to as the HSZ 46. After receiving the information referred to in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article, but in accordance with paragraph 46. Before the deadline laid down in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, you may evaluate the Commission's proposals for amendments closing the detailed debate. In view of the above, the HSP. 15. On the basis of Section 4 of the Parliament's meeting on 20 and 21 September 2021, I shall initiate an amendment to the proposal for a general debate on the proposed bill, so that the bill in question can be adopted in the week starting on 27 September 2021. The amendment to the agenda is justified by the government's interest in the adoption of the bill as soon as possible. Budapest, 20 September 2021 Sincerely: Dr. Zsolt Semjén
u2021-09-20-64	Dear House, It will now come to a decision once again, and similarly to our previous vote, the order for an urgent hearing requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members present. So I'm asking the House that the T/17098 will be brought to an urgent hearing. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House has ordered an urgent hearing by 134 votes to none, 33 votes to none, without abstention. Dear House, We are now deciding on the proposals to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the Parliament's proposal for a meeting on 20 and 21 September 2021 should be amended to allow the vote on interpellations to take place on Monday 20 September immediately after the hour for immediate questions and answers. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that the debate on immunity matters and the decision be held as a item on Monday 20 September 2021 following the vote on the interpellations. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands as well. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group also proposes that decisions and decisions should not take place on Tuesday 21 September 2021. All in favor of that, please raise your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has also adopted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of proposals. I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated National Defence and Police Committee to ask the B/16600 on the implementation of defence tasks in 2020 and on the preparation, state and development of the Hungarian Defence Agency. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Parliament has asked the designated committee to take its decision by 133 votes in favour, 31 votes against and two abstentions. [[16.20]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the designated Economic Committee to ask B/17059 on the national security of nuclear power in 2019. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Parliament has asked the designated committee to take a decision by 133 votes in favour, 33 against, without abstention. I ask the House to ask the designated Committee on Agriculture to address the situation of the agricultural economy in 2019, B/17060. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Parliament has asked the designated committee to take a decision by 132 votes in favour, 33 against, without abstention. I ask the Honourable National Assembly to ask the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs to ask the Hungarian Helps Agency Nonprofit Zrt. B/17056. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the Committee to take its decision by 133 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstentions. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament, ask the committee of the designated National Assembly, with the title B/17057 submitted on the operation and operation of the Bethlen Gábor Fund in 2020. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Parliament has asked the designated committee to take its decision by 132 votes in favour, 33 against, without abstention. Dear Parliament, It follows a series of 5/2018 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. A decision to amend a decision. S/17118 submitted by the President You can find out more about this on the website. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President.
u2021-09-20-65	5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament amending the parliamentary decision. Section 1: 5/2018 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members (V.8) Section 1 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows. L. Simon László, Fidesz elected Mónika Dunai, Vice-President of the Committee to the Cultural Committee. Point 2: This Decision shall enter into force upon its adoption. Budapest, 20 September 2021
u2021-09-20-66	I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/17118. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the personal proposal with 164 votes in favour, no votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Now, at 4:24 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. [[Break: 16.24 16.26]] (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2021-09-20-67	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with love. We'll get back to work. Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister. When will the banker's government return to the ground of normality? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, honourable Member Judit Varga, Minister of Justice, who is responsible and competent on the subject, will respond to the interpellation, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[Lajos Korózs: Hard!]]
u2021-09-20-68	Mr President, Dear House, With Secretary of State Völner and other Fidesz potentates, we have argued on numerous occasions about the situation of foreign exchange credit, the unsolvability of the fact that the Secretary of State and the others have always told me how well the wonderful successive Orbán governments have resolved this situation, while elsewhere, in other regions. The fact is, Mr Secretary, that in recent weeks, another tragic event, the suicide of a father with several children, has ruffled the moods that this terrible situation might have been prevented if this family had not been left unaided. What we see is that we are not talking about the example of a family, because this government has helped about 18 thousand evictions without accommodations in the European Union in a record way, so it has conducted so much in Hungary, which is why I call you the cruelest government in Europe. The thing is, you guys pass such situations, you just don't move in your souls when people lose their lives, families or heads of families are forced to leave the country, and, yes, some people here are perfectly happy to talk about such a subject within two meters of me, otherwise it's amazing. We also see that when the banking system should have agreed to do something, say, to settle the situation of the victims, who took up his so-called loan at 160 HUF, it should have been HUF 160, what did you do? They made a pact with the banking system. Even Lajos Kósa said what a huge problem it would be to forint at the market rate, but instead of 160, you beat people with a market rate of 256 forints, so a large part of the stolen property was easily credited to banks' accounts, and then you have the nerve to talk about a currency-credit solution. Once again, Secretary of State, 18,000 evictions! You can't say anything about a European government, not one whose name so many tragedies, so many tears and so many broken families. And I know what you're going to talk about, the pre-2010 era. By the way, I am also a critic of the economic policy at that time, but also remember 2001 when you released the possibility of unilateral treaty amendments from the bottle. You should also talk about, Mr Secretary of State, how, in the epidemiological emergency caused by the coronal virus, small pensioners and minimum wage earners were faced with 33 percent and 50 percent bans due to foreign exchange-credit cases, and you did nothing in the middle of a socio-social cataclysmic situation. [[16.30]] That is why I say that we need a new accounting law, that every single loan has to be recalculated from family to contract to contract, and in the end, we have to see who owes it to who your allies with whom they have made a deal, with whom the EBRD pact has been concluded, the banks owe it to the victims, or people really owe it to them. I claim that people need to get back the compensation, the compensation you owe them, because you made the pacts with which they took people's money. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Are you open to creating a new accounting law? Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-09-20-69	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, we will hear the answer from Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-09-20-70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are pleased to hear from you in the heat of the pre-election charade about one of the greatest assassinations of your new allies, which the government has ever committed against the Hungarians by the Gyurcsány government. I would remind you that with whom you are now swimming in coalition rage, not only have you allowed foreign exchange credit, but you have put hundreds of thousands of families in a hopeless position, and you have now become part of this party. I would like to draw Mr President's attention to the fact that he is already using false figures for political hystericalisation, that, over the last year, 99.5 percent of the emptying of property has been voluntarily abandoned by residents. So, in the classical sense, the forced eviction took place only half a percentage of the cases, which clearly shows that the housing of those leaving the property was ensured. Last year, the average number of real estate emptyings decreased by nearly 50 percent; this year, even further, since this year only arbitrary housing is allowed. Of course, the government remains determined to help families in crisis situations. In addition to the numerous measures we have taken since 2010, the extension of the land evacuation moratorium may have escaped your attention until the end of the emergency. Ladies and gentlemen, You have not only joined forces with the party that you have sought to account for years, but you seem to have forgotten the horrors that your socialist friends have committed in the years before 2010. You have forgotten that after 2002 the family tax incentives and the preferential interest-supported loans were abolished and then Hungarian families were set up in the trap of foreign currency lending. Between 2008 and 2010, the Left completely forgot about the real problems of foreign exchange lending. Families' loans are skyrocketing, interest rates are gone; then, before 2010, you'll always forget that. Gordon Bajnai, who reappeared on the political scene a few days ago, said at the beginning of the crisis that if someone can't maintain that property because it's too big to sell it, it's possible to go smaller. I want you to talk to them about this. Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife admitted a few months ago, in 2008-2009 the left-wing governments saved the banks, not the people, as the government now said on ATV at the time of the current crisis. Talk to them. He also said that there was only one reason for this at the time: the Union did not allow anything else. I ask you: is there no way to act today for the sake of Hungarian people? Dear House, In the genre of interpellation, it may be less acceptable to ask questions on the part of the respondents, but I respectfully ask what kind of reverse logic you think about the left. If we are talking about whose job it is, wouldn't it be your job to press the button that is needed to make decisions that helped to improve the situation of Hungarian people in debt? They didn't press these buttons when we had the banks accounted for when we made it possible to pay off when we returned more than a thousand billion forints to the people at the settlement. You remember, Congressman, I'm sure. He mentioned that we talked about this several times, I could mention the question of the asset manager, or the forinting of the currency exchange, which was also practically not done before 2010. It was this government that did the most for foreign exchange credoes, and yet you are friends with those who are pushing the chariot of those who caused this unblessed situation. Appreciate your position. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-71	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa to accept the answer. Here you go.
u2021-09-20-72	Mr. President. Dear House, I have nothing to accept. If Mr. Secretary of State had been put beyond the Stargate, the party parliament of the '60s, he wouldn't have hung out at all. You pushed the production report perfectly into writing a little more than you could read in that time, so pay attention to this in the future, but you didn't talk about 2001, you didn't talk about the assassination that followed the whole story, and you didn't talk as one of the state ministers of the banker's government about your willingness to give up the pact with the EBRD and finally take people's side, or remain bankers. 'Cause you guys put it on paper in this pact. It is on your government website, but only in English, in a speechable way, because they didn't dare to put it out in Hungarian, that they wouldn't do any harm to the banks for the Hungarian people. It's related to you! Don't argue with me about numbers, Mr. Secretary. On the executive board's website, I want you to add it to your little phone, assisted with 18,000 evictions. You are the cruelest government in Europe, and then in Peter James's welfare program we will put this right, because there we agreed to take the side of the people. You guys can stay on the banks' side, because you don't have the courage to help real people's real problems. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-09-20-73	Thank you very much, Congressman. The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. Then the decision will take place in a separate vote. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Korózs, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a wallet for families:. What if pensions were to be raised in a normal way and it should not be corrected every few months? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-20-74	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Mr. Secretary. It is known to everyone that pensions were raised by 3 percent in January, even though almost all opposition representatives noted last year in the debate on the Finance Act, and most of us referred to the calculation and publication of the President of the Central Bank that the planned inflation should be significantly higher than 3 percent, which has been confirmed. As a result, it seems that pensions should be corrected several times during the year. It is also well known to my fellow Members that pensions were adjusted by about 0.6 percent in July at the end of the year. I think it made a lot of people smile, since a 0.6 per cent adjustment is still at the average pension, and I note that the average pension in Hungary today is around HUF 150,000. I think there is no need to be a head counter, but if we look at the median pensions, which is significantly lower than the average pension you know, fellow Members, the median is the value below which there are as many as above, well, here we can talk about some 124-125 thousand forints. If we look at the situation from here, this series of figures is even more dramatic than I have just mentioned to my fellow Members, because in this case this adjusted increase came out to some HUF 740-750. Like I said, you don't have to be a head counter. Mr Secretary of State, fellow Members, in the region of South Heves, where I live, people live from 70 to 80 thousand forints of pension. Such a 0.6 percent adjustment meant that they received 480 HUF. I'm sure you know that this is the price of 20-25 ounces of kissing. The government says I'm gonna adjust pensions because I deliberately underdesigned last year, so I'm gonna give you a 0.6 percent increase in July. However, it has been shown that this is not enough, as there is inflation in the country, especially with regard to food inflation, that people cannot live every day. As I said, this pension of 80,000 HUF, from which people live in the region of South Heves, if a 0.3 percent additional supplement is added, it will amount to approximately 240 HUF. You know what I mean? Two hundred and forty forints, that's a pound of bread. The government says I'm going to adjust pensions by 0.3 percent in November, buy a pound of bread, and divide it into a month. I think the question is not cynical, tell me, Mr Secretary, why are pensions not normally raised in January. Thank you very much. [[16.40]]
u2021-09-20-75	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Róbert Zsigó. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-09-20-76	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We should be grateful to our predecessors who built this House that when you spoke, the ceiling did not fall on us, Congressman. We don't understand it: you talk about helping pensioners and the elderly when you were personally involved in poverty and poverty. Congressman, you personally voted in favour of taking the 13th month's wage, taking the 13th month's pension, and voting in favour of reducing the child to two years, paying health care, property taxes and tuition. You personally voted for it here in Parliament. And your boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány, tripled the price of gas, doubled the price of electricity, and wanted to make healthcare pay. These two measures are, by the way, affecting the elderly, and you have assisted in this House, honourable Member, at the time. It shows that you're a man of the past. You were part of the Gyurcsány era who once destroyed the country. On the other hand, honourable Member, we with the pensioners concluded an alliance in 2010, an agreement that, as long as Hungary has a national government, the purchasing value of their pensions will remain. The actions of the past few years have proved that we are true to our word. This year your 13th month's pension has begun to be gradually rebuilt in a HUF 78 billion item in the first year. In February, pensioners and pension recipients received an additional one-week pension allowance, approximately 2.1 million pensioners and 400 thousand pension-like benefits. And as you have heard the Prime Minister before the agenda today, there is a good chance of paying the pension premium. The purchasing value of pensions, whatever you say, has risen by 10 percent since 2010, and since 2010, the preservation of the purchasing value of pensions has been guaranteed by law. Over the past four years, pensioners have received an extra HUF 220 billion payment, and pensioners could also benefit from economic success in 2017-18-19. On Christmas 2016 and 2017 and on Easter 2018 the pensioners also received an Erzsébet voucher, and in September 2019 all pensioners received a refund of HUF 9,000. By July 2021, more than 314 thousand women could retire after 40 years of entitlement, and we helped the elderly by reducing their costs several times. Honourable Congressman, Let me also clarify what you said about the state of the Hungarian economy during the coronal virus epidemic. The fact is, Mr President, that, contrary to what you have said, the reality is that the global economic downturn in Hungary was lower than the EU average, and Hungary became one of the nine EU countries in early September where economic performance exceeded the pre-coronal virus epidemic level. Therefore, honourable Member, it has once again been proven that you, who have already destroyed the country, you, who have already destroyed pensioners, cannot count on the Hungarian people, the Hungarian elderly. The Hungarian people do not ask for it again from the Gyurcsány era, when they lied to their faces in the morning, at night and at night. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-77	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2021-09-20-78	I don't accept it. [[Robert Szigó: I don't understand.]] The 3-percent pension increase is not due to the evolution of prices and the rise in prices. Secretary of State, you know that. Look, this inflation-following pension increase that you introduced after 2010 is a scam of the century. Orbán thus says that the government, personally Viktor Orbán, is guaranteeing that he will continue living miserablely with little money, because he will only increase his pension by as much as the rate of loss of money in Hungarian: the planned inflation. Look, what I've seen is that in recent years there's been money for stadium construction, there's money for Lőrinc Mészáros, there's money for all sorts of investments, but there's no money for a decent pension increase. There was money to pay Ukrainian pensions. I would also like to say that next year there will be a change of government. In this country, who has not paid taxes, who has not paid contributions, who has not earned service periods and who does not live in Hungary, will not receive a pension, and who has obtained it through some crime will be taken away. I'm done! Thank you very much for the floor.
u2021-09-20-79	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr Lajos Korózs did not accept the State Secretary's answer to the question of interpellation. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, has submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. WHY ARE WE BUILDING SINOPHARM VAKCINÁ? Isn't it enough? It's an address. Congressman Zoltán Varga has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-09-20-80	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I'm sure you remember when your boss, the dear leader, told me at the end of May that a vaccine factory was being built in Debrecen, and this will also be suitable for the production of Sinopharm vaccine, so at that moment Hungarians who knew your kleptocracy well thought how good another billion-dollar business would be at the expense of the dearest family of the leader. And your other flight lover leader announced the other day that they had agreed on the domestic production of the vaccine. At the same time, otherwise, how interesting, China, however, announced that the Chinese company would switch from the killed virus-based vaccine to the production of a modern mRNA-based vaccine. So it became clear why China was interested in outsourcing the old, old, outdated vaccine. Because China also needs this vaccine because it uses the vaccine that everyone else knows about, which is to help third-world countries with a kind of tying and linking these countries to you. Tell me, Mr. Secretary: we know why this is good for China, and we also know why it is good for Orbán's family, but why it is good for Hungarian people. Modern technology could produce a much better quality vaccine much faster and simpler. We know very well that Hungarian studies also show that about one third of those over 60 years of age who are vaccinated with Sinopharm do not, or do not, develop antibody protection at all. And the fourth wave, we don't know what the consequences will be, but we do know that the Chinese vaccine will be almost incompetent to overcome it. In addition, Sinopharm is one of the most expensive vaccines in the world. Obviously, it could be said that this could benefit if we were not aware that we would most likely deliver these vaccines to China in a mandatory manner. And I have not even told you that in most of the developed world, contrary to your promise, the Chinese vaccine is not recognised, it is not possible to travel to the people vaccinated with the Chinese vaccine, and even these vaccines will not be bought, so China will be the largest buyer of the vaccine produced here. Hungary pays and China wins. So it seems that next to the Budapest-Belgrád railway line and the Fudan University, the government has managed to acquire another business with a third investment that will be the sole beneficiary of China. Therefore, please tell me why Sinopharm vaccine production is good for Hungarians in Hungary, because we already know why it will be good for the Orbán family. Thank you, and I look forward to your reply.
u2021-09-20-81	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-09-20-82	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Before I get to the topic of strictness, let me respond to your point in which you criticized the fact that the Minister of Foreign Affairs used to fly abroad a lot and why. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Péter Szijjártó is the Minister of Foreign Affairs and, as his title shows, he is engaged in foreign affairs, and this requires travel abroad. If you were Home Secretary, you wouldn't travel abroad. [[16.50]] On the subject, honourable Member, I would like to recall your question: why is it good for us Hungarians to produce the Sinopharm vaccine in Hungary? Honourable Congressman, The thing is, I didn't think I'd be meeting with a question like this, especially considering that a year and a half ago, the whole world's been fighting a disease. As your name shows, it's a pandemic. That's what we've been fighting, so a world epidemic, I'll say it again, a year and a half. Then you ask why it is good for Hungary to produce a vaccine. Honourable Congressman, If this weren't a serious matter, I would say that you could ask Peter James for a clown's lace, or actually a James Peter-winning clown after all, because there is no other way to appreciate this question. But since this is a serious matter, I'm going to try to tell you the following many times. The vaccine is the only weapon against the virus, and Hungary works because the vaccine works, all the vaccines work and all the vaccines work. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that we were able to start life and economy restarting a month and a half earlier, because the Hungarian vaccination programme is successful, and it is more successful and successful than the vaccination programme of the other countries in Europe, because we also use Eastern vaccines. We won a month and a half in health, human life and economic success. And that all the vaccines, including the Russian and Chinese vaccines, work well, besides Hungarian and international doctors, life itself has already proven that they work well. But I know that the facts don't confuse you, and that's because a summer has passed safely, thanks to the successful vaccination program, but nothing has changed with you, you're still anti-vaccination. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] We can remember that you launched a petition against vaccination, your mayors stood up and said that you did not need an Eastern vaccine in your city and district, which would have been able to deliver the Hungarian people who otherwise live there. You would be able to send the Hungarian people to a slaughterhouse at any time, simply to gain political benefits from chaos. That's despicable, Your Honour. But as they were liars 15 years ago at the Autumn Speech, they played only with the money of the country and the Hungarian people and bankrupted the country, and now they are playing with the lives of Hungarian people. They don't change. However, we are going on the path dictated by national interests. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-09-20-83	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2021-09-20-84	No, thank you very much. But to justify it, Mr. Secretary, you were talking about the clown's lace. On the other hand, let me say that in the parrot concert where the conductor can be Orbán, you, the smallest cymbalist, must hit your instrument very hard to hear the conductor. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Robert Zsigó: Was that the reason?]] Be sure, Mr State Secretary, that with the private pension fund funds, the EUR 4.5 billion planned now, the loan already spent on the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, the unnecessarily purchased and otherwise inoperable ventilators, the no-good Eastern vaccines and all the other things that have damaged the Hungarian people, you will have to be accounted for in pieces. Mr. Secretary. You, too, no matter how hard it gets. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-20-85	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Zoltán Varga did not accept the State Secretary's answer to his question. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. The focus of the government is on catching up poor settlements? It's an address. Congresswoman Hohn Krisztina, please.
u2021-09-20-86	Dear Secretary of State, Do you know what fifty shades of grey are in Hungary? When we look out of our car wobbly, the grey asphalt is stained to death, and we try to avoid potholes and pits with a rush of our heads. As a Member of Parliament, it is my duty to speak about the bad condition of the national road network, especially the side roads, as I face this every day in Galga Valley, Galgamente, or even elsewhere in the country. Access to a settlement attracts many social problems. The lack or poor quality of roads linking settlements makes it impossible for residents to participate in the circulation of the area without obstacles, to get to hospitals, clinics, hospitals, or even to buy the basic food. Entertainment and cultural opportunities often seem remote to residents. The low-quality roads, the ever-slighting traffic, which tightens the periphery, reduces the above-mentioned odds in a large proportion, but also leads to increased isolation for disabled people, children and young people, often because of the quality of the roads, the vehicles of support services need to be serviced and daily flights are missed. Although smaller municipal needs are often more modest, they cannot be called into question. Developments and investments would serve the purpose of keeping small settlements and small villages alive. Please respond to how and when it is planned to significantly improve the state of secondary road networks and roads to rural settlements at national level, to assess them, to map them and to increase the amount of applications and to move them to a greater proportion. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-09-20-87	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State János Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-09-20-88	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The fifty shades of gray, if I may, with great respect, I would not speak here in Parliament, even if you could indeed speak of grayness and its nuances, that is quite certain. The fact is that the period in which the left-wing Ferenc Gyurcsány led Hungary, the Hungarian families, was marked by grayness, lies, lack of prospects, unscrupulousness and hopelessness. And you personally, honourable Member, and this is really sad that you are working in person 15 years after the autumn speech when you admitted to lying and cheating the Hungarian people to bring this era back. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ferenc Gyurcsány and the left also destroyed the road network of Hungary. On the 32,000 kilometers long network, significant maintenance delays were accumulated before 2010, and you want to personally help them back into power. It doesn't make any sense. I would like to inform you that, of course, we do have work to do, and that is what we are working on. But in the last decade, serious, targeted efforts have been made to eliminate road failures, and year after year, new renovation programmes have been launched. Over the last decade, more than 6,000 kilometres of roads have been repaired, and this has never been done before. Six thousand kilometers of roads have been repaired! This year, the second phase of the renovation of the hull in the crossing phase of the Váckisújfalu is the renovation of a 600-metre full hull. In the framework of the road renovation programme, a total of almost 1,500 kilometres of roads have been renewed since 2016, and thanks to the work of MEP László Vécsey, a section of the 2105 connecting road has been renewed in Galgamacsá and the 2108 connecting road has been renewed in the area of Acsa, Püspökhatvan and Galgagyörk. Within the framework of the Hungarian village programme, honourable Member, the roads have been renewed and renewed up to now for almost 1,500 kilometres, and within the framework of the operational programme for the development of areas and settlements, the roads will be renewed for some 800 kilometres. One of the main objectives of these programmes, and you know it, is to renovate and develop the lower national roads, precisely in order to improve the availability of smaller settlements, which contributes to the development of the local economy and to improving the quality of life of the people living there: they can travel safer on safer roads. These developments also contribute to our goal of making a four-track road available from any settlement in Hungary within 30 minutes. Five years ago, half of the settlements and three quarters of the population were available. By 2025 this will be true for three quarters of the Hungarian settlements and nine out of ten Hungarian people. Nine out of ten Hungarians will be right. [[17.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We know that there is still work to be done, and we are working hard to solve these problems, but I am pleased to inform you that despite the coronal virus epidemic, they will continue with even more momentum this year on the national road network. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] development and modernisation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-89	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn to accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2021-09-20-90	I don't accept the answer. I regret that in this particular genre, the Secretary of State used a good part of his time to see the Gyurcsány government, and I do not know what other opposition abuses should be listed, which, I see, is today's mantra, because many have listened to this. But, you know, what I've said a lot of times, I'm going to say again that we've been sent here because we draw attention to mistakes or possible shortcomings, and I would have liked to have heard more from you, which you've done in the last few seconds, much more about what you're going to do, not about what you've already done. We are here to convey to you the problems and problems of the locals, and you are here to offer solutions to them, not to reproach the opposition. Thank you for the floor.
u2021-09-20-91	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn did not accept the State Secretary's reply. I would like to inform you once again that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will be taken later, but still today. I now give the chair to Vice-President Sándor Lezsák, and he will give the floor to Congressman Sándor Burány. Thank you very much. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2021-09-20-92	I salute my fellow Members, and give the floor to Sándor Burány, the representative of the Dialogue, who has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:, How does the government plan to help people in a difficult situation due to the runaway inflation? It's an address. Mr Sándor Burány has the floor.
u2021-09-20-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, we find it increasingly difficult to make a living, especially for those who live their lives from salary to pay, from pension to pension, and without reserves or savings. According to the recent figures of KSH, prices increased by 4.9 percent, almost 5 percent, compared to the prices a year ago. This in itself is a very sad number, but if we look at how the price of certain items needed for a daily living has increased, then inflation figures are even more tragic. The price of bread, for example, increased by more than 30 percent in three years, the price of food oil increased by about 30 percent in one year, and the price of such items as margarine and poultry meat, for example, increased to a very high degree. I would just remind the Secretary of State that many years ago, even many years ago, people with modest earnings and pensioners, if they wanted to eat meat, they usually bought chicken wings. Well, this purchase is already very difficult for them, as it costs about 720 forints a kilo of chicken wings, because the price has increased by 12 percent in one year. Let's not even talk about fuel. The price of petrol has risen to its historic peak, and the price of fuel has never been as high in Hungary as in these days. And the Hungarian National Bank warned the public, you and the government, that this inflation will remain with us, and it will even rise further from autumn. Meanwhile, the family allowance has not increased by a penny in 11 years. The child hasn't gone up a dime in 11 years. The amount of the smallest old-age pension, which, by the way, was HUF 28 500, has not increased by a penny in 11 years. In the area of pension increases, compensation is 0.6 per cent, and even compensation must be compensated by the government this year. In the public sector, actions are tragically low, social workers, health professionals, municipal workers, educators, policemen work for unworthy wages. So I ask the Secretary of State and, through you, the government what measures they intend to take to compensate the losers of inflation. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-09-20-94	Thank you, Congressman Burány. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2021-09-20-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Let me start with a look back first, since you were a state leader before 2010 and you were also responsible for economic policy, so you should know that before 2010 the average rate of inflation was twice as high as after 2010 if we measured nine to ten years. So, when you ask the government why inflation is high, if we look at it in greater perspectives, there is no basis for it, but also when it highlights the rate of price increases in certain products, because in your time there was the highest inflation, domestic energy, fixed gas, and I could list it all. However, I have to say that it is legitimate, because inflation is relatively high in Hungary, higher than before, and it is obvious that people must compensate for this in some way. The pensioners need to be compensated, but not as you did when, with high inflation, you voted in 2008, for example, in favour of the proposal of Mr Lajos Szabó, MSZP, that the number of beneficiaries of the 13th month pension should be reduced; not as you voted in 2009, that the 13th month pension should be completely abolished. However, his conscience spoke in 2020 and he answered his question himself, as he voted in favour of the proposal by the Fidesz-KDNP government to start rebuilding the 13th month pension, but he voted in favour of it and voted in the same way. So the first item that we say to pensioners is to rebuild the 13th month pension and, of course, to raise pensions, to ensure pension compensation and to provide a pension premium. This affects 2.6 million people, and during our administration, the real value of pensions has maintained or increased every year, but it has decreased during your governance. So when you ask us to be accounted for, take a look at yourself. But if we continue to see how the compensation is achieved, how interesting it is that during the Fidesz administration, the incomes developed so that real income gradually increased from 2012-13 onwards, if inflation was higher, the income was even higher, and most importantly, the most important thing is that people's money and income are worth more, and the Fidesz government has been able to do this, that every year the wages of people on wages and salaries were worth more. This is also shown by consumption data. During the Fidesz government, consumption has been increasing regularly for many years now. If price increases were so bad for living standards, consumption would not increase but decrease. Honourable Congressman, The personal income tax refund announced today is also an answer to your question. The personal income tax refund of HUF 600 billion will mean an increase in income for families that will be felt in shops, households and their everyday lives. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Sándor Burány to accept or refuse to accept the answer. [[17.10]]
u2021-09-20-97	Thank you, Mr. President. It is not the first time that I have experienced a loss of memory by the Secretary of State, I can understand very little of the practice of his own government, some of which I would be reliant on, and some of what he had in the years before his own government, and he remembers very strongly, but I will help Mr. State Secretary. Among other things, along with others, I was the one who voted in favour of the minimum wage being tax-free, unlike your government. Together with others, I voted in 2002 for a 50% wage increase for public sector workers, and in 2002 I voted in favour of introducing the 13th month pension. The first Orbán government, the second Orbán government, the third Orbán government did not think of that. After nearly 20 years, they will now come up with our idea, they will begin to shamefully introduce, after 20 years, what we have already introduced in 2002, what has been swept away by a global economic crisis, and they are so proud of that, instead of heeding our further proposals, and, for example, introducing the net minimum wage of HUF 200,000. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-09-20-98	Thank you very much, Congressman Burány. Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology: what further economic policy measures are expected as a result of the national consultation? It's an address. Mr Kristóf Szatmáry has the floor.
u2021-09-20-99	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We have heard a lot about this in the House today, but we know that the coronal virus epidemic has put us at the forefront of an unprecedented challenge, but thanks to successful disease management Hungary has been among the first to emerge from this. While it is estimated that the world economy will achieve its pre-crisis performance only by the end of 2022, the Hungarian economy has already done so in the second quarter of 2021. In July 2021, almost 4.7 million people worked here, more than ever, and the 4 percent unemployment rate is one of the lowest in the EU, thanks to employment protection measures. Of course, this is also due to knowledge- and work-based crisis management, i.e. non-aid-based crisis management. Our goal has always been to protect and strengthen businesses, Hungarian families and pensions. Unfortunately, that can't be said for everyone. The balliberal side was never really interested in that. We remember where we started in 2010 and how we took over the country after the Gyurcsány era. It was that era, and we remember when they lied to us in the morning and at night and at night. They sold, indebted, robbed the country, falsified the budget numbers, raised taxes, closed hospitals, abolished the support systems, raised the bills 15 times, terminated the 13th month pension, and gave me a long list of crimes. As a result of their injurious management, the EU has brought Hungary under an excessive deficit procedure. Thank you very much, we don't want any more of this. Most Hungarian people know well, especially those who live from work, that nothing in life is accidental, especially good results. What we have done in previous years has also contributed to the success of crisis management. The personal income tax to 15 percent, the reduction of the corporate tax rate to 9 percent, the single-key tax system, family policy and the strengthening of the domestic business sector were the basis for the Hungarian economy being one of Europe's strongest and most resilient economies by 2020 at the time of the outbreak. On this basis, it is in the common interest that measures be put in place in the future, which also agree with the majority of society. This was also the aim of the national consultation, in which people could express their views on the main issues affecting the economy. In view of this, I would like to ask what further economic policy measures are expected as a result of the national consultation. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-100	Thank you, Congressman Satmary. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-09-20-101	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We Hungarians have given courageous and appropriate answers to the challenges caused by the corona virus. Thanks to the government's disease management and vaccinations, we were able to restart the country earlier than other countries. The vaccination works, so Hungary works. So we're gonna keep asking everyone to get vaccinated. The functioning of the economy is also confirmed by the key indicators today. GDP increased by 17.9 percent in the second quarter, with HUF 1700 billion in investment in the country, and this is a new record. Employment is also very high, 4.7 million people work in Hungary. This means that more people are working in Hungary today than ever since the change of regime. Unemployment is also extremely low at EU level, with unemployment rates below 4 per cent being one of the lowest across the European Union. If it is up to the left, honourable Member, and I must mention this for a few minutes, then these results are not, but there is no wage support and no credit moratorium for companies in distress and families in distress, because when the Gyurcsány coalition had the opportunity to support these measures in the Parliament, when they had the opportunity to decide, yes, to continue these measures that are particularly important for Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses, they always and every time they voted 'no', they said to Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses that they did not need these measures. But they didn't support vaccination either, they tuned against safe and effective vaccines, they attacked health professionals, health workers. By the way, they not only threatened lives and health, but also wanted to create difficulties for the economy because of their own political goals. But, honourable Member, in the context of the national consultation, more than 1.4 million people expressed their views on the re-launch. On the basis of the outcome of the consultation, it is agreed that after the coronal virus epidemic, jobs should be protected at the same time, families should be supported and safety maintained. Thus, by raising the minimum wage to HUF 200,000, 94 percent of the fillers, 95 percent of the respondents, 98 percent of the family support and labour taxes, and 91 percent of the participants agree on the extension of the credit moratorium. Indeed, it is a very important issue, and many people are affected by raising the minimum wage to HUF 200,000, because our goal is to ensure that the results of economic growth benefit workers to an even greater extent, and that the rise in domestic wage levels, which was unbroken in the viral crisis, can continue. And if this minimum wage increase is achieved, this means that the minimum wage will increase by about three times under national governance. The minimum wage will be higher in Hungary than the average wage under the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-102	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-09-20-103	Thank you very much, Mr President, I accept the answer, of course. I would add so much, perhaps not as a justification, but as a confirmation, that, as the greatest crime of the Gyurcsány era was said here, in summary, it was perhaps that he wanted to discourage the Hungarian people from working, the Hungarian entrepreneurs' pleasure by saying that the tax policy was unpredictable, smearing them, even persecuting them with the right bodies, the Hungarian people by virtually taking away the salary, family support, simply trying to talk Hungarian people out of work. This time cannot come back in 22 or later. We in Fidesz will always support it, and we will support measures that value the work of Hungarian people, which is why we support these proposals. Thank you very much for your attention. [[17.20]]
u2021-09-20-104	Thank you very much, Congressman Satmary. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Where is the implementation of the vaccination program? It's an address. Mr László Szászfalvi has the floor.
u2021-09-20-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Over the past few months, it has been proven that the only way to successfully fight against a global epidemic is through the full cooperation of society, through the sacrifice of our scientists and specialists and our medical staff. This is why the Fidesz-KDNP government has decided to place the only effective solution against the disease, the vaccination programme, on the broadest possible basis. During the mass vaccination period, both West and East were able to obtain a sufficient amount of vaccine, which was used by the vast majority of the population. We also know that the fight against the coronal virus has not yet been completed, and the aggressively spreading delta variant has appeared in Hungary, as has been the case in other countries of Europe. Today we can say that there is an abundance of vaccines who want to take the vaccine, which will take place within a week. Today, the third injection is no longer a problem for anyone. Dear Secretary of State, What was the left doing in the meantime? From the beginning, for political reasons, it has attacked the vaccines spectacularly, without any professional arguments. Even at the beginning of the epidemic, they tried to call for dictatorship and did not want to give the government the necessary emergency authority, spread false news, and continued to campaign against vaccination. However, they can now see that the government made the right decision when it did not make a political issue about vaccine procurement. From the end of July, the vaccination operation for those over 60 years of age began, in which they personally visited the elderly who had not been vaccinated. From the beginning of August, the schedule for the third vaccination started, and the third vaccination itself. With the start of school, young people began to be vaccinated. Dear Secretary of State, On behalf of the KDNP fraction, I confirm here and now: we have fully agreed with and supported these actions. On this basis, I would like to ask, with all due respect, the Secretary of State, where is the implementation of the vaccination programme? Since the last parliamentary session, what measures have been taken to protect against the virus, and what are being planned? I look forward to the honour of the Secretary of State's reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-106	Thank you, Congressman Szászfalvi. I give the floor to State Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2021-09-20-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, we are in the face of a new era, or we are in the era of epidemics and migration, and it is important for citizens of all countries to feel safe, but the most important thing for us is that the citizens of Hungary can feel safe. When we talk about the most important protection against the epidemic, and Hungary was faster than almost all countries in the world, and there was hardly a country in the European Union that could reach 25 percent or 50 percent faster than us, let us also take a look at the fact that there is one of the countries of the European Union, who still does not have 50 percent of the vaccine, while we have achieved this in early summer, even before Germany, many weeks and months. Today, in Bulgaria, Estonia, Croatia, Latvia, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia and Slovenia, there is no 50 percent grafting, but Poland was only reached in September. This means that thanks to the Hungarian vaccination speed, which the left has attacked all along, and has not yet withdrawn its proposal for a parliamentary resolution banning anti-vaccination and Russian vaccines, well, thanks to this we were able to reach 25 percent much faster, we were able to reach 50 percent much faster, so much fewer people were infected, especially among the elderly, because we were there at the time when the third wave was very, very strong. As fewer were infected, fewer were hospitalized, fewer were hospitalized, fewer died. By being able to be quick, what the left, where he could, hindered, indeed, the lives of elderly and sick people in the first place, but also for everyone else, because we saw that there were younger patients, we were able to save them, and, moreover, we were able to restart our country earlier in the summer. Thus, we have reached the level of industrial production or economic strength before the epidemic, while, let us say, Germany may not achieve this until eight months later than Hungary. So speed was very important. There is a new time, since we have had a vaccine, we have had the most effective weapon against the epidemic; since then we have to think differently, since the earlier protection measures that have tried to limit the encounters, so the night curfew, masking, changing schools to digital work order, and countless other measures that we all know, we have all experienced, are much more effective than vaccination. Therefore, there is a different timeline, since vaccination requires as many people as possible, because it can save more lives than all other measures combined. All Hungarian doctors, all Hungarian nurses who stood the ground, and Hungarian hospitals did not collapse, but also set an example for other countries to fight the epidemic. During this period Hungary's largest medical wage increase took place, resulting in a two-and-a-half-fold increase in the wages of doctors in two and a half to three years. This period was the opportunity to eliminate the gratuity money as well. Let us not forget that if the left had been on the government, on the one hand, there would have been certain restrictions, as with all their crisis management, from the Bokros package until 2008, and on the other hand, we would have had to pay visit fees and hospital allowances. Even here at the end of the spring session, Ferenc Gyurcsány was proud of the visitation fee and hospital daily allowance he called the reform, when it was an epidemic, there was a third wave, and it was vital that everyone who needed it could get to the hospital as soon as possible, he still argued for the hospital's daily allowance, so that everyone should pay first, then go to the hospital, pay first, and then go to the doctor. It is amazing that Ferenc Gyurcsány would still support this. In Europe, the European Union, Hungary was the first to have a third vaccination in August. We have been faster at this than any European Union country. I recommend it to everyone, especially the elderly, the chronic patients and the immunocompromised. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So we encourage everyone who hasn't done it to convince not only you, but also your acquaintances. [[The president's ringing again.]] To get yourself vaccinated. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Szászfalvi.
u2021-09-20-109	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Thank you, Mr State Secretary, for your reply, and of course I accept that answer. Since there is no other cure for a deadly disease, this virus, obviously, must be our common goal, we all share the common goal of achieving it, as many of us as possible, the higher the number of people, the elderly, the middle-aged, the young. We see and experience it, and now it's not just numbers, it's not just statistical data in our own lives, in our communities, that the coronal virus vaccination, the vaccination program worked, it's working, we've achieved it, we've achieved that our lives, our community life and the whole country are working. After hard months, we were able to start life again and return to normal life, and the economy could restart, and our lives could be redesigned. Hungary is also a sure point in this uncertain world, so let it remain that way. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-110	Thank you, Congressman Szászfalvi. Dear Parliament, Independent Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:.. We ask for a scientific explanation for the application of discrimination. It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Miklós Kásler, the Minister of Human Resources, has asked Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary to answer the interpellation. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-09-20-111	Thank you for the floor. Dear Government, The effectiveness of all Covid-19 vaccines currently available in Hungary exceeds the required 50 percent. However, in patients who become ill, Covid-19 is likely to have a milder course than without vaccination. There is no precise information on the overall duration of protection as vaccines have recently been developed. [[17 .30]] Vaccines, although effective, do not fully protect, may also occur in vaccinated people, and infection and infection may occur with vaccination. In addition, we need to take into account that the previously mentioned efficacy values may vary from individual to individual, since we are not the same; we may not fully respond to the specific product as described in the literature for the vaccinations that have been developed and used against the coronal virus. To date, 818 thousand people have been infected by a coronal virus epidemic in Hungary in 19 months; it is 8.4 percent of the population; 30 130 people have died, which is 0.3 percent of the population and 3 percent, fortunately, of the infected, have died only and not more of our countrymen. This means, in a scientific sense, that there are nearly 8.9 million people in Hungary, who have not been infected in 19 months, or if they have been very mild, they have not noticed, so they have a strong immune system. If you're gonna stick to defense three, you're not gonna get the coronal virus. On 27 January 2021, the Parliamentary Body of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution that vaccination cannot be made compulsory and that there should be no discrimination. It is extremely painful for the government to call those who ask only for compliance with medical regulations during vaccinations. The government decrees made this spring discriminated against citizens who were not vaccinated or allowed to enter enclosed places. After the science said that when vaccination protocols were followed and the immunity period passed, on average 50 percent of them could be considered protected, the government declared in a government decree a failure, as the profession itself claims that vaccination does not fully protect against infection and infection. Hungary's Fundamental Law sets out in detail what the government must comply with in its actions. I wouldn't list them now, since they were published in writing. With all due respect, I would like you to present the scientific study, based on a professional basis, which describes in detail and detail the need for protection against a coronal virus epidemic [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] not protected but vaccinated and not vaccinated but healthy [[The president's ringing again.]] Get people out of their natural habitat. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-20-112	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-09-20-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, As a Member of Parliament, I believe we have increased responsibility in an epidemic situation. Even during the previous waves of the epidemic, Congresswoman has made such revelations, published Facebook videos that many of us have found out what you are talking about there, Madam honourable Member, and because you are a Member of Parliament, so many people have looked at this, a lot of people have listened to it, and perhaps a lot of people have thought about what you said, and as a result they may have lost their confidence in vaccinations. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea keeps interrupting.]] If you hadn't done this as a Member of Parliament, it would probably have had much less consequences; your acquaintances, friends, and former business associates would have looked at it, but not as widely as you did as a Member of Parliament. You know, we are MEPs to serve the safety of the people, not to make statements that risk the lives of Hungarians in a pandemic, out of individual display or political calculation, like so many people on the left. This is what you and your fellow left-wing Members have done: they have not used it, but have abused it because they did not want to save people's lives, but I do not know whether they have been put in greater danger, either by willing or unwittingly, with direct intent or ignorance. You can publish hot videos on Facebook, but then, Congresswoman, how would you stop the coronal virus if you didn't use vaccinations? He spoke here, and for minutes he talked about that vaccination is not good and that it is not good and that it is not good, but he did not say a word about how we will save this ten million-dollar community, us Hungarians, from the epidemic, so that as few of our countrymen as possible will die, honourable Member? International expert in Hungary, Director General of WHO, said that I congratulate the public and the Hungarian government on their joint efforts to keep themselves safe. The WHO leader in Europe says that they are conducting an exemplary vaccination campaign in Hungary, and he also said that he was impressed by what he experienced and saw, because he looked at it with his own eyes; and he also said that the Director-General of the WHO encouraged us to keep this momentum, and that Hungary, honourable Member, was an example to other countries. On the other hand, you are talking about the fact that vaccinations are not suitable for stopping the epidemic, which all literature disagrees with, and does not offer any solution, but it is the individual notarism that characterizes your revelations. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Our goal is to keep everyone as safe as possible. You raised, another June interpellation is what you asked for on the agenda, why there were people who had immunity certificates, they could do more, and there were people who didn't have them, so there were fewer things they could do. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We protect everyone as best we can. Those with vaccinations were given greater opportunities because the vaccine obviously gave them immunity. Anyone who did not have a vaccine was more exposed to the fact that if he meets other people in theatre, cinema, at any other social event, or at a mass event, he would become infected with the virus, become sick, and die. Therefore, those who did not ask for the vaccine were protected as they could be protected at the highest possible level without vaccination. The person who took the vaccine, which was provided free of charge by the government and those involved in the defence, and for everyone who asked for it, and for them, because he had a lower risk, let us say, of participating in a mass event, it was therefore possible to allow them to visit these events, Madam honourable Member, but the point is to protect everyone as much as possible in any case. And there are other countries, Italy, where healthcare workers are required to vaccinate; France, where not only healthcare workers but also elderly homes are required; Greece, where there will be neither pay nor employment as health workers who do not get vaccinated. And in Hungary, I think we can be proud that while there were mass demonstrations and violence scenes in other countries, Hungarian people were much more responsible [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Because we managed to beat the third wave together without such scenes, thanks to the vaccinations. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-20-114	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. It's up to Congresswoman.
u2021-09-20-115	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The reason I don't accept your answer is because you didn't understand my question, because I'm talking about one thing for a year now: compliance with medical regulations. Nobody adheres to medical regulations. You force doctors into situations where they give vaccinations to people who are either infected or who have been infected within three months, or who have a chronic illness that is at a disadvantage to the particular vaccine, they do not take responsibility for having patients sign that everything, but everything, is the patient's responsibility. If you are saying that you have protected the Hungarian people, then tell me one thing, answer an important question: why are you having all the people who took the vaccine sign that he is personally responsible for any harm to his health after the vaccination? Why? And why is it that doctors don't require that professional protocol [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , which is prescribed for each vaccination? Thank you very much.
u2021-09-20-116	As you have not accepted the answer, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place today at our meeting. We will move on to the agenda for immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, representatives of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman Peter James.
u2021-09-20-117	Thank you for the floor. You may remember, Prime Minister, three years ago I said here in Parliament that I had never spoken before so many criminals in my life. That was the first time the mustache shuddered. Then a few years passed, and now I'm not only saying this, but also the President of the United States, who recently called you a gangster with a noble simplicity, Prime Minister. What is the reason for this? I'd like to know why the president of the United States called you a gangster. [[Interview from the benches of the governing parties: Ask him!]] Because one thing is certain, you said then that the President of the United States insulted everyone, all Hungarian people, by calling you a criminal. He hasn't offended me! I am pleased and proud that what I have been saying here for years has now been said by the President of the United States: yes, you are a gangster. [[Intruder from the benches of the governing parties:]] We'll have you and your gang accounted for accordingly. I see your servant, Minister Gulyás, is already blinking, because he has recently said that it cannot be understood that I want you to be accounted for, and I say that, under the rule of law, it cannot be understood that you are still at large, after all the crimes you have committed against the nation, not only are you at large, but you are even listening to those who dare to criticize you for the immeasurable theft. Prime Minister, I say that if you are curious about what the Hungarian people think of you, you should not be looking at you like a perverted leprechaun, you should not be playing Big Brother here, you should go out there and ask them. [[Noise and interruptions from the benches of the governing parties.]] For example, I ask the Fidesz voters why they're still voting for you. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[17.40]] And, you know, I'm not used to being told that we vote for Fidesz because life is so good and pensions are so high, and there's finally no waiting list, but because Mr Orbán must have stolen enough. Prime Minister, Mr Orbán, how do I respond? [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Nothing!]] For these fidesz voters, have you stolen enough? [[Uproar and interrogation from the pro-government benches.]] And even on what grounds does the President of the United States call you a gangster? What do they know about you? I'm waiting for an answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Uproar, interrogation from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-09-20-118	Thank you. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2021-09-20-119	Thank you. The answer to your question is that obviously the President of the United States has confused Hungary with Ukraine. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties. Dr. Brenner Koloman: You were on your honeymoon at Lake Balaton, you know our country well.]]
u2021-09-20-120	Thank you. You have the floor, Congressman Peter James.
u2021-09-20-121	Just in case, Prime Minister, I'm glad the Pope gave you half an hour. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: How much did he give you?]] Obviously, that's very little time to confess all the crimes you've committed against this country, but you have to start somewhere, because the list is very long. [[Constant interruptions from the pro-government benches.]] You've been stealing a country for yourself for the last 12 years. He stole the Tokaj Mountains, the Mátra Power Plant, the Balaton, the universities, now he's trying to steal the highways and who knows what else. But what is a greater sin is that you have achieved that you have teased the Hungarian people to each other. In this country, there's always someone to hate. Right now, I don't know, the rainbow flag, which I don't have either. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You're still waving it.]] But that doesn't make them a target of hatred, because one: it's private; two: you know, hate sooner or later, but it always falls back on the heads of haters. [[Constant noise, interrogations from the pro-government benches.]] So what I'm saying, Prime Minister, is that it's coming to an end now. [[Defiance and continuous applause in the pro-government benches.]] You're holding back a little bit, too, because you know that even Viktor Orbán in prison can become Victoria Orbán.
u2021-09-20-122	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán shall have the floor if he wishes to make use of it.
u2021-09-20-123	I've been trying to understand the question. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Apparently, if the Ranger Master isn't here, the questions won't go either. (Development in the pro-government benches. ) For the sake of the facts, I would like to state that, since 2010, both national assets and state assets have increased significantly, as opposed to the government period of your ally, when both of them fell. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-124	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Why are you interfering? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-09-20-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! There is a country in the middle of Europe, whose government, your government, started its operation by reducing the taxes on the rich and increasing the tax exemption on the low-income by abolishing the minimum wage. All because he thought it was good to share the same proportion of public burdens, the richest and the poorest. And it didn't bother him that many had gone into or out of the country. Prime Minister, today we are saying that the minimum wage for Hungarian workers is one of the lowest in the European Union and the lowest in the four countries of Visegrád. Today, in Hungary, in a family of four, if parents work on minimum wage, the payment received does not even reach the minimum of living with the family tax reduction. Amazing, but today there are two million people living below the minimum living standards in Hungary, even many of the working people are lacking. It's a shame, obviously a disgrace to the Fidesz government. We believe that every worker deserves a safe living, and that the state can no longer take away from those who earn the least. We believe that those who receive a minimum wage should not pay taxes at all, because they should not be taken from the minimum, they should be caught up in low wages. But the reason I'm asking is that now there are many fidesz economic policymakers who are praising the negative nature of the system you have developed. Erik Bánki or László Domokos has also raised a reduction in the tax on low salaries. We have our proposal in front of Parliament, and we just have to vote for it. Prime Minister, why are you blocking more money from working people? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-09-20-126	Thank you. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2021-09-20-127	Dear fellow Member, I would like to draw your attention to the simple fact that, from 1 January 2022, the minimum wage in Hungary will be higher than the average wage at the time of your administration. So if anyone here took money from people, it was you. They took a month's pension, took a month's salary, and hit people with high taxes. Discussions can be held theoretically as to which is a good tax system, but the test of pudding is eating. Yours didn't work, Hungary went bankrupt; ours works, we've never worked so many before. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-128	Thank you, Prime Minister. Congressman Bertalan Tóth has the floor.
u2021-09-20-129	Prime Minister didn't answer my question. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: You weren't listening.]] More than eleven years have passed since you abolished the tax exemption for the smallest income. You are very attached to the single-key tax system, but this principle has already been broken by people under the age of 25, but your representatives are already talking about the need to derogate from the fact that high income and low incomes are taxed in the same way. That is why I would like to ask you once again that you would at all join your economic policies, who suggested that small-income earners should not have to pay taxes. This would help more than a million and a half people immediately if we voted in favour of our proposal. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-20-130	Thank you. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2021-09-20-131	Thank you. We will not vote for your proposal because it would take us back to where we started in 2010. A sane person does not vote for a tax system that has already ruined his country once. Your tax system has ruined Hungary. I don't see any reason why we should go back there. Hungary is a country that pays ten times more taxes if one earns ten times more, and that is exactly how it is done. We deviate from this principle at one point, rightly, in the case of family tax incentives. If you earn ten times more, you pay ten times more if you raise a child, and you pay less than citizens who have the same income but do not have children. This system is complete, it works, it works, it brings jobs and it helps families. Once again, I understand your efforts, but we cannot support your motion. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-132	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr. László Varju, representative of DK, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, Why is the country more indebted to than ever before? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-09-20-133	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, When you took over government in 2010, there was a 78-percent government debt ratio, and the then HUF 21 thousand billion was found to be extremely high. Since then, the value of this has been doubled, today it is worth 40,000 billion forints. Let's look at the details, their way there. The debt was increased to over 80 per cent of GDP that year, and for a long time it was fluctuating around it, even in 2014 it was above 82 per cent. It did not start to decrease until after 2016, after the involvement of massive EU funds. By the way, last year, where they were also after a global economic crisis, they made a 15-percent leap, and now all of this will be rewarded with a loan of EUR 4.5 billion and will be again above 82 per cent. But before you misinterpret it, if all the money you spent was used in the public interest, you wouldn't have lost 30,000 people because of your mistake. I will also summarise the financial situation: 20 000 billion forints were taken from taxpayers, 19 000 billion forints were spent on EU funds, and 3 000 billion forints were nationalised from pension savings. So under your government, Prime Minister, the people of Hungary have become poorer and worse. You and 132 of your accomplices put us in this situation. Then why are you surprised that the European Union doesn't want to help you, and you continue to torment and even steal our money. Therefore, Prime Minister, I ask you, I call on you: do not be indebted to the Hungarian people, the Hungarian people. Are you willing to do that? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much.
u2021-09-20-134	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. [[17.50]]
u2021-09-20-135	I'm not qualified for another word of my bread, but there are times when I do make an exception, and I have to make it clear that your speech is a communist speech. The Communists have always done what they have done or are about to do, accusing their opponents of doing. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: That's right! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] That's exactly what this is about. The fact is that you have indebted the country, made it vulnerable to the rest of the world, but in Hungary, we and the working people have reduced the public debt with great effort. When we had to take out loans because of the pandemic, not only did the debt not go back to the previous level, but it did not reach the average EU debt level, today Hungary is one of the countries with government debt in a manageable band in the European Union. Countries such as Austria, France, Italy are significantly more indebted than Hungary, and most importantly, the ratio of government debt in foreign currency is around 20%. This means that 80% of the profit generated on the repayment of public debt goes to Hungarian citizens. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-20-136	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-09-20-137	Prime Minister, I must reject what you said, because it is exactly what I just said. The government debt was HUF 20,000 billion, and now HUF 40,000. So the communist speech comes out of your mouth when you say it. By the way, when you claim that the country has been indebted, I'm telling you again that EUR 4.5 billion of loans will be put on people's necks, and you will put a foreign currency debt on people's neck, which I think is unacceptable. Again, I ask you not to do this, not to be indebted, to accept the proposal of the President of the National Bank of Hungary to stop spending and to deal with it rather than with insane investments. [[Interjection from the benches of the governing parties: More like austerity?]] to help Hungarian people. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-20-138	Thank you. The Prime Minister shall be rejoined.
u2021-09-20-139	I cannot now accept the Member's proposal to stop spending, because then there will be no 13th month pension, then there will be no minimum wage of HUF 200,000. [[László Varju: Euro loan!]] then there will be no wage increases and there will be no improvement in the country. Therefore, the offer to return to your government, the economic policy of the Gyurcsány government, the path of austerity, will not be accepted. There will be wage increases in Hungary, there will be pension increases even if the socialists have proposed the opposite. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-20-140	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is the government planning? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-09-20-141	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, Dear House, A few weeks ago, you went down to the corner newsstand to see what was going on at the home media front. If I may, I would suggest that you go down to a freely chosen market or shopping mall, so that you may be forced to face the fact that the price of basic food has risen to an unacceptable extent in recent years. Just to quote a few precise facts, the figures of KSH: the price of food oil increased by more than 25 per cent from 20 to 21 summers, the price of margarine increased by more than 8 per cent, the price of eggs increased by 8 per cent, the price of flour by 7.5 per cent and the price of fruits and vegetables increased by 17 to 40 per cent. We are saying that the price of vegetables, fruits and basic food in general is becoming absolutely unbearable. This price is charged by a very significant 27 percent VAT. inflation is loose, and I think the government has a means to reduce this inflationary pressure. I also look forward to the Prime Minister's honour to reply when we can expect the Hungarian government to finally take the step that the entire Hungarian society expects from the low-money to the wealthy, that the Hungarian government will reduce the VAT on basic foods to 5%. Thank you.
u2021-09-20-142	Thank you. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2021-09-20-143	Thank you very much, Congressman. I take your comment seriously, given that you're a food trader, so you know exactly what the prices are. But you may accept me for information that in recent years we have reduced VAT on a number of basic foods. So I now inform you that in Hungary we have classified live pigs, beef, sheep, goat and lamb, poultry meat, eggs, fish and milk in the 5 percent category. You see, we're trying. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-20-144	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I'll give you a return answer.
u2021-09-20-145	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, The fact is that I understand and appreciate the reduction in VAT for these products, but I would like Prime Minister to see that this is not enough. Social policy objectives must be reflected in a tax policy. There's a reason the VAT has more keys. It's not a coincidence that a Braille tablet belongs to a 5-percent tax band. I also have to say that the rich and the poor want to put the same basic foods on the table at night so that their family can eat. In addition to these randomly selected products, I think it would be more important that all basic food, butter, bread, rice, flour, vegetables and fruits fall below 5 percent, because I think it is in the social interest. Thank you.
u2021-09-20-146	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Prime Minister in return.
u2021-09-20-147	I think I understand what my fellow Member is saying. I understand that, based on the logic of a trader, the VAT reduction is always the most favourable form of tax reduction, and I see no problem in that, everyone lives on the market. However, I have to question whether the listed products were selected at random. We chose these because these are the most consumed by Hungarians, and this is what burdened their wallets most. In the next period ahead, our goal is not to reduce VAT. Unfortunately, we can't do everything at once, even if we want to. Our aim in the next period is to reduce the taxes on labour, which is because we can only agree with entrepreneurs on the minimum wage of HUF 200,000 if we reduce taxes on living work in return. We are now in this trial, which will be the next major tax change in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-20-148	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue [[It's a quiet noise from the pro-government benches.]] "They want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What's going on? It's an address. The word belongs to Bence of Turdai.
u2021-09-20-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Orbán, on the basis of what has been said today, you have not mentioned four important issues: these are very specific issues and I would like to have a very specific answer to them. First of all, will you take responsibility for the more than 30,000 Covid dead? [[György Balla: Shame on you!]] What do you tell the hundreds of thousands of grieving family members and friends who mourn the victims of the world's third worst epidemic? The second question is, what do you think of the fact that out of the 250 news stories of the MTI on Saturday, this institution is clearly bound by law? So MTI's breaking the law. Do you agree with this assessment or not? And if so, then tell me why you're so afraid of the primary, why you're so afraid that people can decide who's gonna beat you next spring in the election. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!]] My third question is: if you have not committed any illegal acts when you have observed opposition politicians, independent journalists and businessmen who are not leaning in to you, why have today's National Security Committee meetings been encrypted for 30 years? If you have nothing to hide, then don't keep secrets, make everything public about the Pegasus scandal. Question number four: did you support the questions that Gergely Christmas submitted in connection with the referendum? So the Student City would be in its original place and form, do you or do you not support it? Are you also in favour of increasing Europe's lowest unemployment allowance from 3 months to 9 months? I look forward to the Prime Minister's reply to these four questions.
u2021-09-20-150	Thank you. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. [[18.00]]
u2021-09-20-151	In my opinion, playing with the dead and the emotions of the relatives and using it for political profit is a distasteful and repulsive thing, so I'm not going to play this game. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I'll leave that distasteful and extremely repulsive attitude to you. On the other hand, we are doing everything we can to ensure that there is a doctor, a vaccine, a hospital bed, and that we can save as many people as we have done in the last two years. With MTI not reporting on the primary, I think it's in favour of the opposition. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] But there may be different opinions in this. The register of the National Security Committee is unchanged, the order which must be followed. I think that the job search fee in Hungary is reasonably three months old, and it is very right that, after three months of unsuccessful job search, public work is immediately available. This helped: in Hungary, when we introduced the public works system, there were more than 300,000 people who were still informed about public work, most of which in the meantime found normal market work on the labour market, not public labour wages, but minimum wage. It shows, therefore, that our system is driving people towards work and helping them, and we cannot change that. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-152	Thank you. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Tordai.
u2021-09-20-153	If Mr. Orbán is qualified, I'm qualified. And I think he's weak and cowardly about the disease management and the political behavior you've been presenting here after such a pathetic achievement. Question number two, you've been avoiding the question, you're joking about an obvious violation of the law. If that's all your regime knows, it's gonna hide the unpleasant facts. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: This is embarrassing for you!]] Then you're right to fail next spring. The third is to hide behind the order of the committee meeting, rather than say that in the Pegasus case... when obviously people with non-mafia connections were being listened to by secret service methods and kept secret, again weak and cowardly behaviour, so, Mr Orbán, you have failed. With regard to unemployment benefits, the average is 14 months, while the maximum period of three months is the average! job search time, which you're offering instead, is the net HUF 54,000 community service. From this Hungarian people, thank you, do not ask.
u2021-09-20-154	Thank you. The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2021-09-20-155	Do not underestimate public work, especially when you were on the government and the left governed Hungary, you received 23 800 forints. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-156	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Gyula Budai, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:, Where could the billions of Katalin Cseh have gone? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai granted the right to reply. I ask Congressman Budai to accept the person of the response. [[On Dr. Gyula Budai's mark:]] It says yes. You have the floor.
u2021-09-20-157	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Pannónia Nyomda Kft. led by Momentum MEP Katalin Cseh. and the associated companies, in cooperation with each other, have enriched a total of HUF 4.8 billion with EU support. Pannónia Nyomda Kft. is based in Budapest. 10 days before the deadline for the tender, Vácott announced a branch, which was the only way to obtain regional investment aid. And the only thing on the cake is that Katalin Cseh, one of the leaders of the anti-Olympian campaign, asked for a European Union resource in the competition for the Olympics. In Szécsény, the printing companies organized around Katalin in the Czech Republic made a huge HUF and nearly HUF 1.5 billion, as they submitted a GINOP competition, which marked a local real estate as the seat for the implementation of the project. All of this has been done because particularly high-intensity aid is being provided to disadvantaged small regions, thus maximising the amount of EU aid. To date, no restructuring has been carried out on the Szécség property, there is no evidence of the completion of the investment, and the amount of aid granted has been taken into account. On this basis, there was reason to believe that the crime of fiscal fraud, which has a particularly significant financial disadvantage, is justified against the Czech Katalin, who, as a leader in the rule of law, is a daily lancer for a fair economic life on transparent and equal terms. Dear Secretary of State, I ask how much money companies belonging to the company network of Catalin in the Czech Republic could have received, and where did the billions of Katalin in the Czech Republic disappear to. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-158	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2021-09-20-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, These groups of companies, together with three companies, submitted applications for GINOP applications in 2016, 2017 and 2018. In total, they won HUF 1 billion 722 million in the six applications. The interesting thing about the proposals is that four out of the six applications have the same candidate and have essentially applied for the same activity. Most of the applications have already been completed and have been paid. Honourable Congressman, Where the money went, and what the fate of it is, is being investigated by the NAV. Of course, I can't give you any information about the investigation, but in addition, according to information, OLAF is also investigating that there has been an abuse of the respective proposals. In addition, if the managing authority of the Ministry of Finance finds out that there has been an irregularity in the use of any tender, it will, of course, launch a thorough and detailed investigation and your question will be revealed when this investigation is carried out. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-160	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Budai in return.
u2021-09-20-161	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, With regard to Katalin Czech Republic, the National Tax and Customs Office is already investigating the crime of fiscal fraud. The European Anti-Fraud Office is also examining the use of EU funds. The Hungarian Competition Authority investigates applications and the Public Procurement Committee also investigates suspicious applications. Not so long ago, András Fekete-Győr, President of Momentum on a commercial television, said the following, I would like to quote the following words literally: "Corruption is not Fidesz or MSZP or DK, corruption, and if one of the Members of the Momentum were to receive EU grants illegally or through political relations, we would also have it accounted for. Mr President András Fekete-Győr, this is your chance to keep your promises, to begin to account for Katalin Czech. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-162	Thank you very much. Mr Tállai State Secretary is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2021-09-20-163	Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The Momentum certainly did not think so about access to parliament, since it is unique in the political history of the country, that it is not even in parliament, that there is not a single party near the government, and that the representative of anyone who has not even been a Member in Hungary is already involved in such a case. This is obviously a huge political blama. Honourable Congressman, The outcome of this will be revealed by the tests you mentioned and mentioned by me. This case is expected to continue. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-164	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question, "Can Brussels set foot in the nursery?" What can Hungary do to prevent this? It's an address. Mr István Hollik, if you will accept the Secretary of State, Pál Völner, appointed by the Minister for his reply.
u2021-09-20-165	Yes, thank you.
u2021-09-20-166	You have the floor.
u2021-09-20-167	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, It is no exaggeration to say that our children are in danger, because Brussels wants to take away the right from parents to decide on the sexual education of our children by us parents. [[18.10]] Of course, it was not the first time Brussels did this, in 2015 they wanted to tell us that we could protect Hungary's borders from thousands of illegal immigrants. And then they wanted to tell us who to live with. It is regrettable that the idea of a compulsory quota has not been released since then, even though it has been five years. But Brussels did not stop here: in the midst of the fight against the corona virus, when everyone was competing with time, Brussels had concerns about where Hungary was otherwise buying tested and effective vaccines. Of course, the Hungarian left was enthusiastically assisted. Everyone knew that anyone who bought time would gain life, but they still tripped the purchase of vaccine. However, few of us thought that they wanted to interfere even with the upbringing of our children. Brussels seems to have forgotten to read Article 14 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which clearly states that raising children is solely the right and responsibility of parents. This, of course, did not interfere with Brussels' clarity and has opened infringement proceedings against us. On the other hand, Fidesz-KDNP has the same position as set out in the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. We believe that the sexual education of our children is solely a matter for parents, and it cannot be taken away. The question therefore rightly arises: can Brussels and LGBTQ activists set foot in the nursery, what can Hungary do to prevent this? Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-20-168	Thank you very much. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2021-09-20-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Following the adoption of the Child Protection Act package, international, Brussels and Balliberal organisations launched another intensive attack on our country. The coordinated series of attacks brought the infringement proceedings against our country against the Child Protection Act. Brussels wants to intervene in Hungarian legislation by stealthy withdrawal, despite the fact that the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, as Mr President mentioned, points out that it is the right of parents to decide on the principles for raising their own children. I would like to stress that family law, which includes child protection, is exclusively a national competence and cannot be allowed to do so. According to the European Commission's founders, LGBTQ activists should be allowed into schools, whereas the Hungarian government's position is that only parents should be able to choose to raise their own children and that no one should be able to force their child to receive sexual information without parental consent, or to face content that is not the same age. I would stress in particular that the adopted law does not apply to Hungarian citizens of age and does not restrict the rights of sexual minorities. Nevertheless, the LGBTQ propaganda organizations financed by György Soros also launched a coordinated international attack on Hungary because of the adopted Child Protection Act. There is nothing surprising about this, since it is organisations who used to attack our country because of illegal migration. These organizations include Amnesty International, the Company for Freedom Rights, Human Rights Watch or, of course, the Hungarian Helsinki Committee. Let the facts speak for us. LGBTQ sensitivity was held with a transvestite in a high school in Budaörs, and two other high schools in Budapest were previously found to have allowed LGBTQ propaganda into the school. In addition, the name and contact details of György Soros's organisation supporting lesbians were added to the board during the sessions. So much for the 91-year-old old man. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-20-170	Thank you very much. Congressman István Hollik's rejoinder!
u2021-09-20-171	Mr President, It is quite clear that Brussels is also abusing its power in this matter and wants to put pressure on our country. But the good news is, we know the antidote. The most effective antidote for this is the clear will of the Hungarian people in a referendum. As we showed Brussels in 2016 that we do not ask for illegal immigration, we do not ask for a compulsory quota, so we can show next year that no one can interfere with how we raise our children. And we have to use this tool, because the danger is real. We can see that the Hungarian left is apparently, as in migration, lying down now for the will of Brussels and campaigning for the admission of the LGBTQ propaganda. The President of the Momentum made it clear that they would let the LGBTQ activists into school. Therefore, only Hungarians can decide the fate of Hungary, the fate of Hungarian children in a referendum. Everyone, please attend. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-20-172	Thank you very much. Pál Völner's rejoined answer.
u2021-09-20-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the migrant crisis in 2015, Hungary has not been exposed to the same genderless political-charged, embarrassing campaigns as it is today. Nevertheless, the government's position remains unchanged, only Hungarian parents have the right to raise their children. The Hungarian left-wing parties once again represent the interests of Brussels and not the Hungarian people in the case of child protection. When the pressure on our country reaches such high places, only the common will can protect Hungary, which is precisely why we initiated the referendum on the Child Protection Act. Our most precious treasures, our children's future are at stake, let's all be there. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-20-174	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. One of the greatest artists of English humor in Hungary? It's an address. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor.
u2021-09-20-175	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, in one of your Facebook comments, you let us know that you like English humor, but you're more modest than your puritanism, and you didn't tell us that you were trying to cultivate this genre. Allow me to quote one of the funniest sentences in the House: I have never been a wealthy man, nor am I, nor will I be. Well, according to your property statement, no, but everyone knows that you're attracted to luxury, you're attracted to luxury life, you're on vacation with a luxury private jet, you're on a luxurious private jet for matches, and you also know that when you ask how you can afford it, all you're saying is that 30 years ago, I'm gonna go like this, which is free, so I'm gonna get paid for these trips. We also know that you have made your friend Lurch Mészáros the richest man in the country, who has a fortune of HUF 455 billion, i.e. HUF 455 thousand times a million, about $ 1.6 billion. Everyone also knows that this is not the property of Lőrinc Mészáros, because you have control over this wealth and spend it on what you want and what you say. But here's another serious question as Prime Minister, Hatvanpuszta. Tell me, Prime Minister, how does Viktor Orbán and the Orbán family afford to build a castle in a cabaret, which is 6700 square meters, with a variety of luxury, underground garage, elevator, to quote precisely, has a cluster-capped flooring library, and I'm guessing with everything else, a separate house for service staff, which was once called a servant's house, by the way. Prime Minister, how can you afford such luxury, how can you afford a property that has almost no partner in Hungary? What's with all the luxury construction? I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-09-20-176	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2021-09-20-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. They're trying to provoke me several times, and they're not gonna make it now, just like they did before. I've got a property statement, I've lived in front of the country for 30 years, every sentence of my property statement can be verified, they give me an accurate picture of my own life. You put your question in the wrong place, business matters, I don't deal with anyone else's business affairs, I myself don't have business affairs like this, there's only one expectation for every businessman: pay taxes and obey the law. And I will stay here, and I will continue to work as a Member of Parliament, and I will eat the bread of those who, as Members of Parliament, earn it. I'm not going to be a businessman, you've confused me with your allies. On the left, it is customary for prime ministers to be billionaires and to involve themselves and their party in all sorts of suspicious political and economic transactions. And as far as the question about Hatvanuszta is concerned, I can tell you that it is customary for children not to talk into their parents' affairs. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-20-178	Thank you very much. You have the opportunity to respond in return, Congressman. [[18.20]]
u2021-09-20-179	I see. Prime Minister, that means Sixvanpusta won't be the property of the Orbán family and it won't be the Orbán family's castle, will it? It's for the Orbán family. I'm guessing you're not gonna move in there either. I understand your suspicion that you are trying to direct the construction of this luxury property, which is estimated at HUF 10 billion, to your father, which could be more as the price of construction materials rises. You know, the problem is, if we looked at your father's businesses, he wouldn't have made that much in 11 years, he wouldn't have been able to take that out of all his companies. Then how can you and your family build a luxury estate in Hatvanuszta for more than HUF 10 billion? This is a serious issue, Prime Minister, because what money can you move? He also said in this entry that you are not the master of the rings. Indeed, you are not the master of the rings, you are the master of hundreds of billions of people stolen in Hungary, and you should be ashamed of that. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-09-20-180	Thank you. The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2021-09-20-181	As I said, I try not to sit above these types of provocations, not even the lies I see in my eyes. Luckily, I don't have to take what you're saying seriously, because you were the congressman here who called Ference Gyurcsány crazy Nero, DK a dwarf party, and you said a thousand percent that they would never join forces with the left. And now he's out there rubbing and rubbing. A man like that doesn't even get to be provoked. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-182	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, How do they plan to defend themselves against the fourth wave of the epidemic? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári asked for a reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity.
u2021-09-20-183	Thank you, I accept.
u2021-09-20-184	He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Zoltán Varga.
u2021-09-20-185	Secretary of State, it is worth talking about Europe's most successful disease management, or at least what you think it is. We know very well that only a year ago the closure of schools was a necessary evil, but at that time we knew that the outbreak was only a matter of time. We should have prepared for this two weeks earlier, while providing computers for students in need. That didn't work. Mass relief of hospital beds was useless, we already know that. It is quite clear that 18,000 respirators have been purchased, 90 percent of which are still rotting in some cellar, and 90 percent of them plus 1 and almost inoperable. And, well, we can see that the early closure of the shops has only increased congestion. And we also know that it is quite clear that mass testing and the quarantine of the infected would have been far fewer for the dead and the sick, but they simply refused to order it. They didn't provide enough masks, but instead they tried to talk citizens out of wearing masks at the time. But he's changed a hell of a lot fast, or the standard of success too. At first, slowing down the spread of the infection was considered a success, with the capacity of the hospital. In the fall, as we survived the first wave with little loss, Orbán still measured success in human lives. When we became world leaders in the unit number of victims, instead of the number of deaths, their increase to the average of many years suddenly became important, up until January, when it turned out that this surplus was brutal. That's when the standards became grafted, which, however, got stuck in less than 6 million, because the government raped and even raped the Chinese vaccine. Most of the elderly have been vaccinated with this, however, as one third of them have not developed adequate protection, and many of them have no, no wonder that the confidence in vaccination has diminished. That's where we are now, and we've got the fourth wave. There's no defense, there's no preparation, but at least there's your crazy hunting world show where anyone can enter unconditionally. The question is how they're gonna try to solve the situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2021-09-20-186	Thank you very much. I give the floor to State Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2021-09-20-187	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, One thing is certain, we will not listen to you, honourable Member. Let me quote you for yourself. You said if Orbán kept pushing the Chinese vaccine, there wouldn't be a million inoculated. We are now at 5 million 860,000 vaccinees, honourable Member, and this is also due to the Chinese vaccines. If we had listened to you, the country would be in a much harder position, so we wouldn't have made such a mistake in the future. You also said that the government is trying to inoculate the Hungarian population with untested, collected, perhaps falsified, Eastern vaccines. These are vaccines that have preserved the health of Hungarians for hundreds of thousands of numbers and millions, and probably saved their lives for hundreds or thousands. This helped us to inoculate Hungarian citizens sooner than France did the French, Germany the Germans or Spain the Spanish. There were few situations when Hungary was faster and more effective, but we did lead in grafting, honourable Member. You said what and how should have been done about opening, closing schools. What did you say at the beginning of this year when the third wave was here? István Ujhelyi said that the restrictive measures imposed on 11 November were too strictly limited by the government decision in force at the end of the third wave, and that it should be opened. You said that at the beginning of the third wave. Zsombor Kunetz, your expert: we must open it, we are much better off, he said at the end of January. Andráses Fekete-Győr from Momentum: let's open Hungary again, but in mind, they said in early February, as the numbers grew from day to day. And András Fekete-Győr personally said a day later that it was time to abolish the meaningless rules. If we had listened to you then or listened to you in terms of vaccinations, we would have been in a much, much harder position. You repeatedly attacked and attacked the construction of hospital beds for the care of patients with coronary viruses when we were on top of the third wave, and you said you needed more hospital beds. Honourable Member, you have been talking nonsense and would have endangered the lives of Hungarian people if you had been in a position to make a decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-188	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congressman.
u2021-09-20-189	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, How did the dear leader put it? It's unsavoury to give examples of the deceased. But 31,000 people are dead because of you, and Orbán promised to save anyone who gets sick. You're lying! The Chinese vaccine is all about filling their own pockets. It's a shame! It's a shame, otherwise. They've been doing business with the Chinese vaccine, they've been doing business with the respirators, they've been doing business with the lives of the Hungarian people. You're gonna fall for this. This story will be over soon. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2021-09-20-190	Thank you. You also have the opportunity to respond in return to the Secretary of State.
u2021-09-20-191	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, How your dear leader said in the autumn speech about Hungarian health care and the visit fee. He said that if one of us goes into a medical facility, he knows that our health system is built on a multitude of lies. But you didn't do anything to straighten this up. And what did he say about the visitation fee, which he confirmed at the spring session this year, how important it was that would have kept people from going to the doctor during the coronal virus epidemic, or would the hospital's daily allowance have kept them from being in the hospital and being able to examine them as quickly as possible? Well, he said in the fall speech that, in a social sense, the visit fee was nothing. It's not a scandal, it's uncomfortable politically, and it's uncomfortable to pay. With that, Ferenc Gyurcsány arranged the visit fee, which, if it had been valid this year and last year, would have increased the number of diseases and the number of dead by many hundreds or thousands, because people would have had to pay thousands of HUF at the visit fee machine first and then supply them. Your governance was only a threat to Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-192	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: I would like to ask Mr. Congressman to accept the Secretary of State, Mr. András Tállai, who has asked for an answer.
u2021-09-20-193	Yeah.
u2021-09-20-194	You have the floor, Congressman Csárdi.
u2021-09-20-195	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Dear Lords of the Minister, As I said today, tax policy must show social policy objectives. In part, this does not appear sufficiently in the VAT law, and indeed the personal income tax law would also need to be amended. [[18.30]] But let's go in line. In the last year, basic food has increased to an unbelievable extent. I am extremely pleased that fish or pork are subject to a 5% tax rate, but today it is clear that bread is still under the 18 per cent tax rate, while the vast majority of basic foods, vegetables and fruit, are subject to a 27 per cent general turnover tax. The result of this, my dear giggling fellow Members, is that the price of the apricot this summer was 2000 HUF. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It was 2000 forints per kilo. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] And let's be realistic, an average pensioner [[Máté Kocsis: How much of this did you benefit from?]] Who, say, will receive a pension of HUF 150,000, will be able to cook jam from 2,000 forints apricot. But I think that the same is the case with the 700 forint plum, and the same is the case with the majority of basic foods. But let me also say a sentence about personal income tax issues. The single-key tax is detrimental to low incomes, and I think that higher incomes can be generous enough to contribute more to our common affairs... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]]
u2021-09-20-196	Thank you very much.
u2021-09-20-197	This is what the LMP's personal income tax proposal is about.
u2021-09-20-198	Thank you.
u2021-09-20-199	Dear Secretary of State, When is it expected that they will touch the tax system? [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-09-20-200	I give the floor to State Secretary András Tállai. [[It's constant noise.]]
u2021-09-20-201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You're a very lucky congressman, since you could say the same question twice, once to the Prime Minister. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] Once for the Secretary of State for Finance. I need to start with a correction right away. The Secretary of State is sitting next to me, and he tells me that the apricot wasn't 2000 forints, it was only 1000 forints. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Two thousand for Mr. Csárdi! Rumble and clear in the pro-government benches.]] And that's thanks to the spring frost. Honourable Congressman, This is not the first time we have fought on the issue of VAT on certain basic foods. Fidesz first reduced the VAT on basic foods in 2014 for the first time since 2014 until 2021. We have voted on this issue several times. You, the LMP, did not vote for a single VAT reduction once. What an interesting thing this is, that when you join forces with Ferenc Gyurcsány, food VAT will be important to you immediately, and it will be important to reduce the VAT on food! But, honourable Member, hasn't that been important to you in the last seven years? If you had listened to what the Prime Minister had said or listened to what was happening in Parliament, a significant proportion of basic food is already under the 5% reduced VAT. I've listened to your speeches several times, apart from the fruit, you'll probably pick one or two of your favorites. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Doesn't even think about what basic food it is anyway. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] VAT should be reduced. With all due respect, the next time we're gonna put this in front of the National Assembly, at least vote on it, and I'll thank you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-09-20-202	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Csárdi has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2021-09-20-203	Dear Secretary of State, Neither you nor the Prime Minister are right when you claim that most or most of the basic food is under the preferential rate. It is a negligible, very small part of it, because I think we all know that meat and UHT milk do not make up the majority of basic foods, flour, sugar, and I could list them in length. I didn't vote for it, and I'm not going to vote for it until there's a structure to this bill, or it's hidden in a salad law, which, by the way, is parallel to [[There's constant noise and clarity in the pro-government benches.]] I should also support bad decisions. Mr. President, I can't hear my own word. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]]
u2021-09-20-204	Hold on a second, please. Go on, Congressman. [[It's ringing.]]
u2021-09-20-205	I am convinced that both the transformation of the personal income tax system and the reform of the VAT law cannot wait any longer. It can't wait any longer, because people living here working can't, and it's getting harder and harder to buy the basic and basic food that they should have the right and opportunity to buy. [[It's constant noise. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Thank you very much.
u2021-09-20-206	Thank you very much. I would like more patience from my fellow Members. You have the floor, András Tállai rejoinder.
u2021-09-20-207	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The current government is the government of tax reductions. From 2010 onwards, you can't say a tax that this government wouldn't have reduced. [[Antal Csárdi: General sales tax!]] Up to personal income tax... General sales tax. We've just listed it as basic food. But have you forgotten in that time, Congressman? [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] But we could start by adding corporate tax to the employer's contribution, reducing each tax category by the Fidesz government, and we can promise you that it will continue to do so, Fidesz will reduce taxes, and in a very interesting way, in some mysterious circumstances, tax revenues have increased. Well, you couldn't do that with your allies. We will continue with this tax policy. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-09-20-208	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We're going to move on to the polls. In line with our agreed agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations that have been made today. [[György Balla reporting.]] Z. Kárpát Dániel, representative of Jobbik I/17... [[György Balla: Mr President!]] Yes, Congressman Balla. [[He's jogging the bell.]] Congressman Balla!
u2021-09-20-209	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am obliged to give you very brief technical information, because the woman sitting next to me does not work at a level that she cannot ask for a vote or vote all afternoon. So I would like to ask you with respect to each vote, with your hand, to indicate how you would cast your vote, you don't know otherwise... or I would ask you to count on it by the President. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-20-210	So right hand, left hand. Okay, thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Z. Kárpát Dániel, representative of Jobbik, I/17067. No response to interpellation was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 121 votes to 27, with one abstention. I put it right, didn't I? [[Dr. Eszter Zsuzsanna Battalion nods.]] 120 yes plus 1. I said good, it turns out I just added the congresswoman's vote. Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of MSZP, I/17052. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the response to the interpellation by 119 plus 1,120 votes, 30 votes against, with 1 abstention. Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, I/17055. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the response to the interpellation by 119 plus 1,120 votes, 29 votes against, with two abstentions. [[18.40]] Krisztina Hohn, representative of LMP, I/17063. No response to interpellation was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the response to the interpellation by 119+1, 120 votes in favour, 31 against, with 1 abstention. Sándor Burány, representative of the Dialogue, I/17061. No response to interpellation was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117+1, 118 votes in favour, 31 against, with 1 abstention. Ms Andrea Varga-Damm is an independent Member of I/16539. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117+1, 118 votes in favour, 30 against, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, It is up to you to discuss and decide on immunity issues. I would like to inform you that on 5 August 2021, Mr Ander Balázs right-wing Member of Parliament received a motion to waive his immunity 13.Bpk.119/2021/2/I. I'm hearing a private charge of defamation from the Nagyatád District Court. I gave this to the immunity committee to examine it. The immunity committee shall be H/17123. Parliamentary Congressman Ander Balázs put forward a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. Mr. President.
u2021-09-20-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Since there are four cases of immunity before us, two of which are completely related to Mr Ander, so the general findings of the four cases that an immunity committee makes at this time are presented now, and then I will only comment on all the other cases in the logic of that. In such cases, the immunity committee examines whether the motion which it receives came from the rightholder, I say from the right district court, for the sake of simplicity - ; it contains a well-defined fact; whether the facts can be linked to the particular representative; it contains a rating of what the Member has committed; and so is generally okay with the motion that usually appears as a problem here and there that we are approached by a court with orders that are not yet final. These are the most formal things that the committee is looking at, and that is how it makes its decision. Well, in this case, what the President has referred to here is the motion from Ander Balázs 1, the rightholder, the District Court of Nagyatád; it contains the facts, I can basically tell you that this series of events was mostly conducted in the public domain, on Facebook, which the injured party complained about, in this case a lady, the wife of a mayor, whose activity in the company was affected by the representative; it contains the rating, the district court asks for the suspension of Mr Ander Balázs's immunity due to a misdemeanor of defamation; and the matter also came here with a final order. You know, the immunity committee has set up a drill not to issue a representative on a private charge. In all four cases, this practice was followed by our committee, which I propose to the Parliament. In one case, if our conclusion is nothing else, I would like to say a few things. So, in this case, it's a private charge, usually the usual thing, a representative says something about something else, in this case a private individual offends him, and he turns to Parliament. Our general practice is that we do not issue the immunity of the Member; I have proposed this to the committee, and the committee has accepted this with a majority decision, and I am asking Parliament here, too, not to suspend the immunity of the Member in this case. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-212	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Parliament that Congressman Ander Balázs has two immunity cases in front of Parliament, and we will now decide on case number 1. Ander Balázs is not in the room, so he cannot make use of the opportunity to speak, so now the decision is to be taken. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Parliamentary Congressman Ander Balázs. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not suspend the immunity of Mr Ander Balázs by 15 votes in favour, 130+1, 131 votes in favour, without abstention. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that on 5 August 2021, Mr Ander Balázs, a new motion for the waiver of the immunity of the rightful Member of Parliament was received on 13.Bpk.120/2021/2/I. I'm hearing a private charge of defamation from the Nagyatád District Court. I gave this to the immunity committee to examine it. The immunity committee is H/17124. Parliamentary Congressman Ander Balázs put forward a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2021-09-20-213	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In fact, in the main proceedings, there is a fidesz mayor and his companies accused of various things on Facebook surfaces, Mr Ander Balázs, and the other case was the wife's husband, so the mayor and the wife brought proceedings against him. As I said, the case comes from the Nagyatád District Court, that is fine; the facts are described in the same way as in the other case, there is slander here. J. S. and his mate, J. S. His little wife, therefore, makes such hurtful remarks, which I am not happy with, because it is stylish, but according to the Parliament's established practice, we do not issue the Member's immunity in private cases; this I suggested to the committee, which the committee accepted by a majority. I will also tell the Parliament, on the basis of the committee's decision, not to suspend the immunity of the Member on the matter. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-214	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Congressman Ander Balázs. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not suspend the immunity of Ander Balázs by 15 votes in favour, 128+1, 129 votes in favour, without abstention. [[18.50]] Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that on 19 July 2021, Mr János Stummer's better Member of Parliament received a motion to waive his immunity 2.Bpk.138/2021/5. I'm a member of the District Court of Dunaújváros on a private charge of defamation. I gave this to the immunity committee to examine it. The immunity committee is H/17122. Mr János Stummer presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2021-09-20-215	Mr President, Dear Parliament, This is the case that I would like to make a few additions to, putting forward that my proposal to the Committee on immunity and my proposal to the House is what we have been following, but this gives me the opportunity to say for the second time on the plenary of Parliament that the practice that we have been carrying on for a long time is in no way correct. But as a Member judges a Member here, I do not think that it is a solution that, with a majority decision, we will still take a different decision, unlike what has been done so far. But I think that if, let's say, we are past the campaign, the new Parliament could rethink its practice in this respect, because it is not acceptable to publish Members in the event of public indictment, and that is perfectly acceptable. The immunity committee in the other part of immunity... so in the case of private indictment, we always protect the representative. With this, we are also, if you will, the inspirations of the raging public address, which goes out into public space from here, from the walls of the House. Today's Parliament was a perfect example of this. As long as you can say anything here, you can say obvious lies, there will never be any legal consequences under immunity. If you do this on the street, we'll protect them, saying it's harassment for the National Assembly. [[Noise, interruptions.]] There were disturbing cases before the Parliament, let me recall one of the previous parliamentary cycles. József Szekó was the fellow Member who, God knows how many immunity cases he had here. The same man always reported her with something! In such a case, this is considered to be a stalker. What we regard as a stalker, just because we accuse and defend the Member, this may be understood as perhaps a majority practice, but that we apply this stone hard, consistently in all cases, I think that is not acceptable. We will apply it now, at least that will be my proposal. What's different about this case? I'm going to mention the facts. In Dunaújváros, the minority owner of Duna Vasmű, the Ukrainian owner, allegedly wanted to invade the plant, so he sent security personnel to take over the plant. We know that from the press. This is gonna be a police procedure. The police are handling this. What happens in two days? The MP there and the head of the National Security Committee, also a better representative, will hold a press conference. It is not the local representative who takes the prime, but the chairman of the National Security Committee, and there he tells the bluff, without any knowledge, that he says this provocation was not organized from Kiev, but it was organized by Gábor Kubatov and organized from Fidesz. You don't have anything in your hand to do that. In such a case, honourable Members, it is not one Member who picks on the other, but an institution of the Parliament. The congressman may not be the sharpest knife, he may not have much experience, but what he's doing is discrediting the Parliament when he suspects things on behalf of one of the most delicate committees he has no experience of, he just wants to muddle and destroy the authority of the Parliament. That's all I had to say, and I suggest we consider this kind of practice at a more peaceful moment. Now, just to get to the motion: you have the right to submit it, so the District Court of Dunaújváros described the facts, which I briefly described here, contains a declaration of defamation after the fact of the motion and has a final order. I suggested to the committee that in this case, too, because it is more important when it grades a Member, that we should only rethink the practice we have in some way in this matter with a common practice. That is not the case now, so I suggested to the committee there that we maintain the immunity of the Member. The committee has also confirmed this by a majority vote, and my motion, of course, here in this House, concerns not to suspend the immunity of the Member in the case in question. But once again, we must consider our practice, because it is not certain that Parliament will act responsibly in such a case when it defends the Member. But I'm suggesting that now. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-09-20-216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Stummer is not in the room, so he cannot make use of the opportunity to speak. Dear Parliament, It's up to you to make a decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend Mr János Stummer's immunity. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not suspend the immunity of János Stummer with 15 votes in favour, 117 plus 1, or 118 against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that on 9 July 2021 a motion for the waiver of the immunity of Members of Parliament of Fidesz György Simonka was received at 11.Bpk.134/2020/37. in the case of a private charge of defamation from the Gyula District Court. I gave this to the immunity committee to examine it. The immunity committee is H/17121. Mr Simonka presented a proposal for a decision on the immunity of a Member of Parliament. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. Mr. President.
u2021-09-20-217	Here the Gyula District Court turns in its transcript to the National Assembly. The facts are brief: On February 14, 2020 the events will take place when Congressman Hadházy holds his usual event in Békés County called Corruptioninfo, with the presence of another individual. Congressman Simonka is talking to this other person. This is a grievance from this private person, perhaps even a lawyer, a law-abiding gentleman. He is going to the court on the suspension of Mr.György Simonka's immunity. The rating here is slander, and the court motion meets all formal requirements. That's what I used to say, these are typical private cases. I suggested to the committee that in this private charge, Congressman György Simonka's immunity should not be suspended. The immunity committee has made a majority decision on its proposal with such content, and I propose that the Parliament, on behalf of the committee, should not suspend the immunity of György Simonka in this case. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[19.00]]
u2021-09-20-218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask Congressman György Simonka if he would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] It says no. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Congressman György Simonka. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not suspend the immunity of György Simonka by 13 votes in favour, 121 votes against, without abstention. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. We're ordering a two-minute technical break. [[Break: 19.01.19.03]] (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2021-09-20-219	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask those fellow Members who are leaving the Chamber to allow us to continue our work as quickly as possible. (In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.) Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: When will they stop expropriating the shore of Lake Balaton? It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister has entrusted Antal Rogán, the Prime Minister's chief of staff, with responsibility and competence, to the subject, and, at the request of the Minister, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will answer the question. Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-09-20-220	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is no exaggeration to say that the Club Aliga in Balatonvilágos is the emblematic site of NER. Over the last decade, we have seen that here in Club Aliga, the cutting down of trees, the demolition of old buildings and the overwriting of local construction rules, such as the promotion of a priority area for development, are very, very at the forefront of this. It seems that the privileged will have the Balaton, at least in the Club Aliga. According to the new plans, as long as the privileged will be able to go up to the high shore in a ligament, 16 apartments will now receive the tourists arriving to Balatonvilágos and the Balatonaliga residents, which have been operating as a road, a coastal promenade. There is clearly nothing else in your policy, which is happening there, around Lake Balaton, except to make the entire Balaton coast section a private area, and within that, a closure of the coastal promenades. We're talking about a hundred-meter stretch right now. (In the notary seat, Dr. Adam Steinmetz Replaced by Dr. László Varga.) A TNM regulation guaranteed the right to establish a coastal promenade there in the coming period. Now, the private space table indicates that the privileged will be able to hang their feet directly from the shore of Lake Balaton. Well, that's the big problem for the Algaans there, and the protests of the local residents are clear, and a law that has been fought for three decades is being smothered. You can see that as long as they can now enter the Club Aliga by road and reach the coast, they have been promised that it will also be registered as a road in the real estate register. You can see that this is also planned to change, and you want to allow a private road network there. This can be done by overwriting local construction rules. What I see is that in the coming period Club Aliga will be a particularly important emblematic location for NER, as it already is. When are they gonna stop expropriating Lake Balaton? Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-09-20-221	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I said, Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-09-20-222	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You're asking when the government will stop expropriating Lake Balaton, if I recall correctly. When you talk about the protection of public property, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in this period the properties around Lake Balaton were not privatized, and not by us, but by you, who did this, they privatized the Club Aliga, just like many other Balaton tourist companies, camping and beach. So if you would like to comment on this matter, do so at the nearest pact meeting. The government does not privatise, but provides support for investments in the area of Balaton to businesses, municipalities or even public actors. The aim is to improve the quality of service while preserving the natural values of Lake Balaton. Now, as far as the specifics are concerned, the area of Club Aliga beach, including the immediate coastal areas of the beach, will not be excluded from local residents or visitors there. The beach will be used free of charge by local residents. On the other hand, it is my understanding that the beach operated by the municipality must, for example, be paid. I would also like to add that while the left asked for free beaches during the summer, we could also see a plane, with this message, two thirds of the beaches are free beaches at Lake Balaton. Of these, 45 were renovated by this government. In addition, under the Kisfaludy program, thousands of accommodations are renewed in the area of Lake Balaton, medium, large and private accommodation. I don't think you dispute the importance of this either. And what's the result? This year, Lake Balaton had a record year. If I look at Hungary as a whole, the Hungarian tourism as a whole, this tourist season was 17 percent stronger than the previous record, based on the July guest nights. An upcoming election campaign or not, I hope that you will acknowledge the importance of this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-09-20-223	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. What would you like to use the Tata karst water for? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Secretary Tamás Schanda will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-09-20-224	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, This spring I asked the government several times about what they wanted to use the water from the Tata springs. You, the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, replied that you do not want to use the karst water of the Tata Basin for the water supply of the Komárom Industrial Park. You said that through the planned wire, the water from the Tata springs will serve the drinking water supply of the Komároms. They said that the industrial park would be supplied with water from the Kopánymonostor wells bought from the Danube. [[19.10]] If that's true, then it's an acceptable answer. At the same time, there are some questions that question your promise. For example, the water flow of the Kopánymonostori well was sufficient for the Komárom Industrial Park. Because if you don't, then you can choose to use good quality Hungarian drinking water as cooling water for a battery factory. The inhabitants of Tata, Tatabánya, Baj, Szarliget and Vértesszőlős expect a guarantee from you, because if it turns out after all that part of the karst water in Tata is used by the industrial park, then this means betraying Hungarian interests and Hungarian people. Before you start cutting, Mr. Secretary of State, I am telling you that no one is attacking the water supply of the families of Komárom, no one is attacking the Komárom industrial park and the jobs there. You know, it's an old fidesz trick, so if you don't have any arguments, you're gonna make accusations. You are the ones who serve the enrichment of multinational corporations in the face of the interests of the people. Anyone who makes accusations admits that they have no arguments. In the interests of protecting our common national treasure, high-quality Tata drinking water and representing the inhabitants of Tata, Tatabánya, Baj, Szarliget and Vértesszőlős, I would like to ask with respect the Secretary of State what guarantees can be given that the waters of the Tata resources will not be wasted for business purposes. What guarantee can you give me? Please give me a reassuring answer. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-20-225	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I said, the answer is given by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2021-09-20-226	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think your speech is unfair in many ways. On the one hand, it is unfair, because you have acknowledged that I have already answered that question, and you have also admitted that my answer to that question reassured you. After that, I don't know what else to do but to answer it over and over again in the same way as I did before. It's obvious you don't have a theme. I am therefore sorry for you for having to talk about issues that do not exist here in the Gyurcsány pre-election circus in Parliament and at press conferences, but it is unfair to ask a question that I have answered over and over again, which you believe the government is handling in an acceptable way. On the other hand, your speech is unfair because you're talking about multinational companies and you're talking about drinking water. You do this by, by the way, sitting in the Socialist Party, in the party where the water utility companies were otherwise sold to foreigners, served the Hungarian people by raising their fees to foreign service providers and made the entire sector impossible. You have raised the cost of the rent, we know that, but the civil national government provides clean, healthy and cheap water for Hungarian citizens. This will continue to be guaranteed by the national civilian government. We also guarantee the reduction of the rent, which, by the way, has already left HUF 2100 billion in Hungarian families. It is a serious sum, honourable Member. It is also clear that investment in the Komárom industrial park is an important investment, since it has a positive impact on the quality of life of the people living there, creates jobs and provides livelihoods for the families living there. I'm asking you to stop attacking this investment and accept my reply, as you said earlier, because it's pointless for us to keep talking about it like this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-227	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:. What is behind the Government decision of August on the construction of the MotoGP racetrack in Hajdúnánás? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, In answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed the Minister for Innovation and Technology László Palkovics, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Minister Tamás Schanda will answer the question. Congressman Zoltán Varga has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-09-20-228	Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I think we all know, and perhaps there is no man in Hungary who doesn't know that Lajos Kósa is very attracted to motorbike riding. However, we never thought that this would give him the right to handle the project matters of the MotoGP course of Hajdúnánás, and this is what is happening, as we see that the implementation of the MotoGP course was entrusted to the company in which Lajos Kósa's people sat or sat in a very nice number. Then we also saw that the operational tribe responsible for relaunching economic life accelerated the construction in July. As Debrecen, we also wondered whether Lajos Kósa would like to ride on this track sooner, or why, but let's face it, this course has absolutely nothing to do with restarting economic life. Then, two weeks after this decision, the government entrusted the implementation to the Investment Agency and appointed Minister Andrea Mager instead of László Palkovics as government responsible. The decision, in an unusual way, stresses from this government that the former entrusted company must be accounted for by the end of August, for everything. So the Kósa company that's had all the confidence in it has suddenly disappeared from behind it, the ground, the kft. You're out of this business, or you're out of this business, to a level that's completely surprising, or you're gonna have to deal with it. And I can't repeat that it's not enough to win elections, it's also to be able to govern. And now I don't want to ask you how you guys usually win an election. In any case, they can't steer. The government led by Dobrev Klára clearly undertakes not to spend HUF 20 billion on this course from the Economic Protection Fund, but we cannot tell you why Lajos Kósa has suddenly been disgraced even though you love motoring so much, and you have so much confidence in Lajos Kósa. What has led you to simply take away this sandbox from Lajos Kósa now? Thank you very much.
u2021-09-20-229	Thank you very much. Congressman, as I said, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-09-20-230	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You're a big MotoGP expert, and there's a lot of MotoGP experts on the left, we all know that. You are on the left, when you were on the government, you have already announced a MotoGP orbit building project. So I'll take it as an honor, but I'm a little concerned that you're paying such attention to the fate of the former development. Honourable Congressman, You are well aware that it is an important investment at national and regional level, a project that offers great opportunities for the people who live there, as it provides work for thousands of people already in construction. You know perfectly well that such a large investment is also significant for the re-launch of economic life. Honourable Congressman, In addition, a modern, multi-functional, economically operated, unique line-leading racetrack will be built here, which, besides many other things, will also be suitable for receiving the MotoGP races, the model of the Formula-1 motorbike. With this development, although you should, in principle, represent the interests of the people there, but you will never do so, you are not doing it now, because you are struggling to prevent this from happening, while this racetrack will put East Hungary on the world map of speed motor racing. Honourable Congressman, In addition, the answer to your question is very simple. It is a matter of planning tasks between two public companies. Keleti-Magyarország Racing Course Ltd. has carried out several preparatory tasks, conducted negotiations with the right holders, signed the MotoGP settlement contract and ensured the development of the professional concept of the course. It's done. The implementation and execution of the investment will be transferred to a deliberately created public company, which will provide countless other investments from government mandates. Honourable Congressman, There's no intention here that you're talking about. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-231	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, representative and leader of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister responsible for innovation and technology:. Why has the government ignored university autonomy, lied to the model change in the process of outsourcing, and why are there no resources available for promised university developments and, above all, for appropriate wage increases? It's an address. I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the group, but I do not agree with the style of the wording. Here you go. [[19.20]]
u2021-09-20-232	I understand, Mr President, thank you very much for the opportunity. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, On the other hand, I would like to stress that in the process of outsourcing the model change, the Hungarian higher education institutions were practically deceived, the university leaders were deceived, the Senates were deceived. In many places, clear peripheral conditions have been formulated by university leaders, along which they were willing to start in the process of changing models, which were virtually not implemented anywhere. One was a great promise that there would be huge EU development resources for universities, and the other was that you hadn't settled your teachers, researchers, employees and employees' wages for 11 years, and that you promised twice a 15-percent wage increase. In the case of several institutions, we can say that there are already chaotic conditions, there is great uncertainty, the workflow has stopped, and there has been a lot of controversy between the Senates and the Curatorials you have filled with party soldiers. They do not usually give the Senate the power to decide as a basic condition for university autonomy, but they only give opinions on issues such as the definition of the university's budget or the definition of the terms of the rector's proposal and the decision on the rector's person. This is also held by the Fidesz party soldiers appointed by you. My question is, Mr Secretary of State, we have had a lot of discussions about this, and you have constantly insisted that university autonomy is respected, and it has been clearly revealed that the whole process has been a lie, and why they do not give the Senate the right powers to make decisions. Why don't you give me this two-time 15-percent raise? There are many places where you can hear that this is no longer certain, or even subject to conditions where appropriate, but it is certainly not usually received by higher education workers despite your clear promise. When will the development resources promised by you arrive? And it is very important why they spend a penny on the Budapest campus of the University of the Chinese Communist Party until the promised development resources are provided to Hungarian universities. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-20-233	Thank you very much. On the question of Mr Fraction Manager, as I said, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda answers. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-09-20-234	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, You make the left-wing mistake of being right about everyone else only as long as you agree. That's the mistake he keeps making, and you and you are the biggest enemies of university autonomy and university freedom when you question the decision of the university senates. Where do they get the courage to do this? ! Moreover, honourable Member, that is the truth, and I can't say it any better, because there have been so many unfair accusations in your speech that this was a standard crusade, lame fake news speech. Here, honourable Member, is the bill before the Parliament, from which it can be clearly seen exactly how there are unprecedented increases in higher education in Hungary. You like to refer to Pécs and the University of Pécs in particular to the fact that this is good for them or not, then history will decide, but we can clearly see that there is a 212 percent increase in funding by 2022 compared to 2021. 212 percent. More than double the budget of the University of Pécs, more than doubled! There's the bill on the National Assembly's website. If you would take the liberty, Mr. Group leader, and acknowledge that these measures that we have promised to take, all of them, would be a worthy speech, or at least that you would read the bill before you and remain silent. Honourable Member, we have also made it clear on this day of Parliament, but we have repeatedly said that we are not only guaranteeing the additional funding needed for the 15 plus 15 per cent increase, but there is also a significant increase in this, there is an unprecedented amount of resources. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Moreover, although the European Union does not want to finance these developments, Hungary will finance the development proposed by universities. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-09-20-235	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister, without a wallet responsible for managing national assets, what MNV Zrt is planning. the area of the Three-Border Hill Cruise Airport? It's an address. Honourable Member, Secretary of State János Fó Nagy will answer you. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-09-20-236	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On 18 September, the area of the Trimierhegy glider space was restored to state treatment, after the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. has terminated the contract granting the trust rights of the University of Arts Aeronautics Association, which has been operating there for 100 years with minor interruptions. In the last few days or weeks, serious concerns have been raised about the fate of Buda's favourite hiking, dog walking, jogging, biking, glider and paragliding sites, where in the last two years the association has brought back sparkling sports life, without harming the interests of other users of the airport. In fact, silently flying planes are a spectacle and an opportunity to fly, and the association enriches district life with community events. Secretary of State, what justified the termination of the contract granting the trust rights of the University of Sports Aeronautics Association? What MNV Zrt is planning. With the area of the Three-Border Mountain Sailing Space? Can you continue sailing and paragliding under similar conditions? Can you guarantee that the airport will remain unchanged as a green area? I thank you in advance for your reassuring reply to hope.
u2021-09-20-237	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-09-20-238	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, The legal predecessor of the National Asset Manager, the Treasury Asset Management Board and the University of Sports Aviation Association concluded a property management contract in 98 for the properties constituting the airport. In fact, MNV terminated this asset management contract in 2013 after the association had breached its obligation to replace the assets entered into in the contract. Practically for the free use of a 170-hectare property, this cost HUF 5 million per year, so it wouldn't have beaten the association to land, but it wasn't completed, the contract was terminated. For formal reasons, the court dismissed the termination of the multiple exchange of letters as a written request, but in both the first and second instance it decided in favour of MNV in the case of compensation. Following the final judgment, the MNV terminated the asset management contract in March 2020, and the time expired. By the way, it was 18 months because the association agreed to partially settle their own internal affairs until then, partly with the Defence Sports Association, to implement a pre-training programme. The property for the airport includes protected areas and Natura 2000 sites, in order to ensure the protection of nature instead of the current exploitation for economic purposes, MNV intends to enter into a contract with the Pilisi Parkforest. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The trustee will be entitled, by virtue of his right of recyclability, to use the real estate concerned or a specific part of it, even for the pursuit of aviation sport activities, so I suppose that gives hope in every respect. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2021-09-20-239	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Csaba Nagy, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:, What stage is the preparation of the construction of the M60 motorway between Pécs and Szigetvár, with the touch of Szentlőrinc? It's an address. Honourable Member, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda will answer you. Congressman Csaba Nagy has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-09-20-240	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The preparation of the scheduled construction of the M60 motorway has been taking place for a long time. In 2009, at the time of the left-wing government, the preparation of the investment was completely stopped for planning, licensing and expropriation, and only after the change of government in 2010, the completion of an investment that was particularly important for the West Baranya and Somogy counties was once again on the agenda. [[19.30]] Before the planning phase, on 30 November 2017, the investment was granted an environmental permit. Since then, a feasibility study has been carried out, on the basis of which documents the development of the licence holder's plans has been started. In contrast to the implementation process, which was shut down by the left in 2009, on the modified trail, the municipalities concerned and the municipality of Baranya accepted the planned route of the expressway, taking into account municipal and environmental interests. In my individual constituency, the 4th constituency of Baranya county, it is of particular importance for the constituency to build the first section of the M60 motorway between the county seat and Szigetvár with the touch of Szentlőrinc, then the section between Szigetvár-Barcs until the border. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what stage is the preparation of the construction of the M60 motorway between Pécs and Szigetvár with the touch of Szentlőrinc.
u2021-09-20-241	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary Tamás Schanda will answer you. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-09-20-242	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government has given priority to the continuous expansion and development of transport networks. This is a big task, as left-wing governments have also failed to develop the road network. This was also the victim of the construction of the M60 expressway you mentioned. The strategic objective of the national civilian government is to connect cities with county rights to the motorway network, to drive motorways and motorways to national borders, and to improve access to technological and industrial centres. In addition, the priority objective is to ensure that a four-track road section is available from any settlement in the country within 30 minutes, and to improve local quality of life, we also have an important objective and task to build roads to relieve the interior of the settlements. Honourable Congressman, Thanks to the work of your powerful representatives, the development of the M60 motorway has also begun. The construction of the road stretches about 70 kilometres from Pécs to Szigetvár and the second phase from Szigetvár to Barcs is possible from Hungarian sources, thanks to the work of Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses. I would also like to inform you, honourable Member, that we are currently preparing the section between the Pécs-Szigetvár. For the approval plan, the design contract was signed in the summer of 2020 and the final building permit is expected to be obtained in the first quarter of 2022. So if it depends on the civil national side, the planned developments will take place, as they are equally important for families living in the region, who can travel more easily and safely, as well as for local businesses, because each section of the road has been completed. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] make them more competitive and their products and services. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-243	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Finance a question:, How does the government take account of the President of the MNB's findings on economic policy? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that the Secretary of State, András Tállai, will answer you. Here you go. Mr Zoltán Balczó has the floor.
u2021-09-20-244	Mr President, thank you for the floor. György Matolcsy has been critical of the government's economic policy several times over the past period, and he believes it was a mistake to remove the Ministry of National Economy and to leave the management of economic policy to the Minister of Finance. The annual fiscal interest cannot be the compass of economic policy. According to him, Hungary does not have a long-term competitiveness programme. It follows that, while between 1998 and 2002, we were approaching the EU average at that time by 8.8 percent in five years, not quite 8 percent in the last ten years was the same indicator. It also considers it a serious omission that after 2016, an average of 30-40 thousand new homes could have been built each year, representing a difference of 60,000 compared to the one actually built. According to the central bank president, the fight against the epidemic was successful in 2020, but rather a failure in terms of public investment. Let me give you the reason: the vast majority of resources were still used to increase the oligarchs. We have the highest government debt in the V4 group, but this is where the highest deficit is planned for 2022, which is also the third largest in the EU. György Matolcsy sees this as a major threat: if the financial markets consider this economic policy unsustainable, there could be a massive financial attack on the country. Of course, we can tell you the reason for the big gap here: it's about the government handing out the election year. Let me finish my speech with a general assessment of the President of the Central Bank: Hungary does not have a single and clear vision today. I ask the Secretary of State how they intend to take into account the previous critical findings of the President of the Central Bank. Thank you, I look forward to your reply.
u2021-09-20-245	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Secretary of State András Tállai will answer you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-09-20-246	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The President of the Central Bank does not have the task of making economic policy findings, so it is not the duty of the government to evaluate these writings, thoughts and assessments. That's why he doesn't. However, allow me to give some thought to economic policy. Thanks to the economic policy that has taken place since 2010, the Hungarian economy has also achieved an outstanding expansion in the historical context in the last decade. The Hungarian economy's performance increased by 42.9 percent between 2010 and 2019, largely as a result of the growth trend that developed after 2013. Although the epidemic has caused the economy to halt in 2020, it has successfully restarted following the economic protection and re-launching action plans, which is also shown by the record high GDP growth of 17.9 percent in the second quarter. In order to re-launch the economy, we have mobilised an unprecedented amount of budgetary resources, which has contributed to the preservation of jobs and, indeed, to the creation of a number of new jobs by supporting investment. In terms of growth prospects, it is positive that a high investment rate of over 27 per cent of GDP has been maintained. In 2020, despite the epidemic, 30,000 new homes were built, which was further increased by 13 percent in the first half of 2021. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Honourable Congressman, The government's goal is fundamental: it wants to send Hungary to the first five countries of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-20-247	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anett Bősz and MEP Zoltán Varga, representatives of DK, would like to ask the Minister without a wallet for families:, Why are fewer and fewer children born? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to inform you that Secretary of State Róbert Zsigó will answer you. I give the floor to Congresswoman Venus Anett. Here you go.
u2021-09-20-248	[[He's trying to pin his microphone.]] Excuse me, Mr. President.
u2021-09-20-249	Congresswoman, I'm going to have your time adjusted, but I've indicated in time that it will be your turn. Please restore your time to the congresswoman. [[It's happening.]] Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-09-20-250	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, During the Covid epidemic, birth rates have increased worldwide, which is understandable due to continued isolation. In spite of the epidemic, the number of Hungarian dolls has fallen and is even at a historic low point. Uncertainty of prospects in the country of unborn children can also deter couples seeking children from having children. Tárki's research has long shown that we Hungarians do not trust each other or our institutions, we do not believe that hard work will bring fruit, we believe that enforcement depends solely on the relationship system of man. [[19.40]] This terrible worldview has been strengthened by NER, which is likely to play a major role in the low birth rate. Under Covid, health care has become more uncertain than before. Hospital infections have also made hospital treatments more risky, and Covid has increased this risk many times. Panic measures caused by the epidemic, the evacuation of hospitals not only undermined trust, but also reduced the quality of care. According to experts, suicides have risen by 10 percent. One reason could be that the epidemic has taken away the capacity for psychiatric care. The length of waiting lists has increased unimaginably, and it has not improved the situation that the legislation has refused to choose a free doctor from the parents' women. Dear Secretary of State, It's not enough to win a choice, then you have to steer. However, the chanting of hypocritical platitudes about the family is not governance. During your previous administration, there were an average of 6,000 fewer children a year than in the last eight years. Today's man wants freedom and a safe background for having children, which your government doesn't provide. The government of Klára Dobrev, taking office in the spring, can ensure that. With all due respect, why weren't you able to grow up to do this? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2021-09-20-251	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I said, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Róbert Zsigó. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-09-20-252	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The answer to your question is that since 2010 there has been a significant increase in childbearing in Hungary, with a fertility rate of 1.25 in 2010 and an increase of 1.56, i.e. 25 percent higher than in 2010. Congresswoman, you said in your speech, and I quote: not enough elections, and then there is a need to govern. You can say this by saying that it was 15 years ago that your boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány, told his fall lie speech. [[László Varju intervenes.]] Where, among other things, he told me that you lied in the morning, in the night and in the evening, and that you didn't do anything for four years. After that, you're teaching us how to govern, that's pretty weird. Madam President, in 2010, the civilian government took over a country on the brink of bankruptcy in economic, moral and demographic terms. Families were hit by high taxes, restrictions, and children's desire and the number of marriages were at a low point. The family support system was dismantled at the time, including a reduction in the number of children, systematic child protection support and tax relief for families with one and two children. Since 2010, the government's goal has been to make it easier to start a family, have children and raise children in Hungary. Since 2010, we have increased the amount of support for families by 2.5 times; with a new home creation program, we are helping families get home and we are launching a family action plan. Between 2010 and 2021, there has been more than a double increase in the amount of aid that can be used to provide baby care, and I could still list the measures that have been taken to help families, and I can assure you that we continue to work for families. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-09-20-253	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the questions. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-09-20-254	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mankind has experienced a crisis that has not been seen since World War II, and no one should doubt that a new world order will be built under the cover of this. And if one dares to ask any questions that are entirely legitimate or trivial, it is immediately stigmatized or excluded. After all, what is going on now is the restriction of our most fundamental human rights, and the government and the united Balliberal bloc are competing against each other to force the vaccination for which the vaccine manufacturers are not willing to take any responsibility; in parallel, the stigmatisation of the undisposaled is taking place. You can't have your life back if you don't get yourself vaccinated. You can't move into college, you can't go to college, you can't work in health care, then who knows who's gonna come next, because Gulyás Gergely is already looking forward to this in other occupations, and they don't even provide health care, you pay taxes, you don't pay social security. If you don't get vaccinated, you won't get health care, it's the government's current policy, but the government won't rescind the uninoculated people, it'll really come in handy. Pay these benefits, but they don't get any benefits at all. This is not fair, and no one outside the Hungarian Movement draws Viktor Orbán's attention to the fact that this is unfair. How does the Hungarian government think he's pissing off public opinion against the undisposaled? How does the Hungarian government think they're responsible for everything? ! After all, Viktor Orbán said earlier that the vaccination will solve everything. Compared to this, when nearly 6 million of our countrymen were vaccinated, there are more people in the hospital and more on the ventilator than at this time a year ago when zero Hungarian citizens were vaccinated. And there's another wave coming, and now it's the fourth. Well, that's what the vaccine did. And then we have to ask the questions that both the government and vaccine manufacturers are extremely uncomfortable about how many years the closure costs. How long will it take for one million Hungarian children to move normally for more than a year, since even playgrounds had to be closed? How long will it cost Hungarians the obesity that some estimates add to 50 million kilograms? How much disease will this result? How many years of life or in health will it take us all to live with closure for a long, long time? How many years do underdeveloped interventions that have not been performed in the health care sector, precisely because of the coronal virus, require? And how long will it take to kill young people who have just been lost because of closure? According to our country movement, they are also victims, but the most important point is our children. Viktor Orbán must acknowledge that he must leave our children alone. Their blackmail, their stigmatization is particularly mean and cruel. And just recently, the second international research revealed that children are more vulnerable to vaccination than the coronal virus itself. In Britain, six times as many young teenage boys were hospitalized for the consequences of the vaccine as many as for the coronal virus. What does the Hungarian government do? It makes it clear that not only children over 12 years of age, but also children over 5 years of age, will now be put out. Our country is the only party that stands up for the rights of the uninoculated, and cannot be second-class citizens. We cannot support any closure in the future; the government has already done enough damage to the economy. We're also against vaccinations for children, and we don't want mandatory vaccinations. Forget all this, Viktor Orbán and his government. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-09-20-255	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. To speak after the agenda, Congresswoman Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi from the Jobbik Group has applied. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-09-20-256	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Without a living country there is no strong Hungary. We have been saying this for a very long time, to say that Jobbik is one of the most important missions of the National People's Party to help Hungary in the countryside. And this is also necessary, because if we were not watching the events of the country from Budapest, say from the Carmelite monastery, but the ministers and the ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary would take the trouble and go to the Hungarian people, the Hungarian families, they would also experience the truth that is hiding behind the scenes, because the whole region is clearly in great trouble, even if you think that they have helped Hungarian families to the full extent. [[19.50]] There have been measures that I myself say as a tax expert that yes, it was necessary, and for example, family tax relief is a very supportive method and a tax policy instrument that really helps families. But you have taken countless measures that have harmed Hungary in the countryside. All that spending, all that unbridled spending you've started over the years, all that proves is that you're not on top of the situation. When nearly HUF 100 billion is spent on a World Hunting Exhibition, which I would not think would be necessary here after the pandemic, since much more could be spent in the field of health and education. Or, for example, they didn't settle the wages, but they spent hundreds of billions of forints on appearance and visual investments that didn't serve the interests of Hungarian people. When I receive the desperate message that the postman received a net HUF 152 549 in his bank account in Budapest, we should consider whose interests you are in the interests of. We have heard here today that none other than their own men. You spoke to your own camp today. You have said that these measures, which you have taken and wish to take in the future, will be appropriate for a narrow layer. For example, people under the age of 25 have been brought up, which we ourselves support, because we believe is a good measure, but we bettermen would have extended it to 29 years precisely so that it would be an appropriate discount for a wider layer. You always have your own interests in mind. And when we say that without a living countryside there is no strong Hungary, the emphasis should indeed be on making investments that are not just promises. Promises are all over the attic. They'll promise you they'll promise you they'll promise. That is what the actions of recent years are about. If we go to Siófok, for example, where now the bypass is a mystery which almost no one in Siófok has taken seriously, because it has been a recurring problem for practically 15 years, and you promise that you will promise. And from what I hear, there's a press conference coming up that maybe the plans will be ready by 2024. These measures are nothing more than campaign campaigns, and everyone perceives that. When is it really done for people? When will measures be taken to best benefit the local people? For example, Siófok is the bypass, but let us not talk about the swimming pool, I have already said that it is only the land of promises, and you will never set a foundation in life; it is not important for you to have a swimming pool in Siófok, and it is one of the most important projects for us as Siófok. But we could talk about investments that are not only in Siófok, but also in the constituency, the Somogy 4th constituency, a land of promise. They do not do the maintenance of the roads, the renovations of the sidewalk, they talk about how much money will be spent, but this is the end of a pretend measure, because they are being prepared in a capacity that damages Hungarian people, Hungarian taxpayers, as well. We believe that change will come in 2022, a change of regime and a change of government. I ask the voters of the Somogy 4th Constituencies to keep an eye on the events, because you can see that there are only promises on your side, and we will show them in action. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-09-20-257	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-09-20-258	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 18 September 2021, we presented the award for the second time in memory of Margit Schlachta, which took place last year, on 14 April 2020, on the centenary of Margit Schlachta's parliamentary assembly, then still becoming a national assembly representative. Margit Schlachta was the first female Member of Parliament in Hungary, the owner of an incredibly rich way of life, and he made incredible sacrifices for the socially dependent people, for the excluded, both in Hungary and in the United States, all his life was about service. He didn't start a family, his family was the needy and orphaned people. In the last year in Csongrád city, we have found a wonderful creation worthy of such an award, as we are handing the prize in memory of Margit Schlachta to people who have done sacrifices in the social sphere for many decades, and their work and personality stand out from the community where they do their work. This year we had to travel all the way to Beremend. This settlement towards Croatia is the southernmost settlement in Hungary. We had to travel there to find the excellent person in the person of Horváthné Horváth Ildikó, who is the head of the retirement and retirement home there, and although there are many such institutions in Hungary, they could ask how we chose him to be rewarded for this award. We chose him because in this wide country, we received signals from countless places about the fantastic way that older people are treated in this institution under the guidance of this wonderful creation. They say it's not a bedtime, it's an uplifting one. In this institution, the deterioration of people with dementia stops, the people with dementia are not treated separately, but integrated. With an incredible rich day's program, they try to make the lives of the elderly, their everyday lives valuable and useful. They feel that they are at the end of their lives, that they are not an unnecessary family member who needs to be cared for, nursed and assigned to young people, but are in a system, an organizational system and a homelike great place where each one of them is important to the community individually, is important to the workers and is particularly important to the head of the institution. I would like to say a few words about the fantastic experiences of finding this invention and finding Ildikó Horváth. We arrived at Beremend at the time, which is a 2,500 enthusiastic settlements. Who would have thought that when such a settlement, especially when it comes to the fact that there are many very bad settlements in Hungary, there are many villages with very bad fates, it feels as if it had arrived in a city. In a city where the environment is constantly cleaned by a multitude of people, because a settlement has been welcomed, where there is a wide range of birched grass everywhere, beautifully renovated buildings, parks, such a wonderful area of the spa and spa, the church gardens are amazingly beautiful. Every community house, every institution that serves the community, is perfectly renovated and modern. A cultural house was built from 400 million forints, but one that can accommodate all the inhabitants of the entire settlement. I was going to say that it is probably not a coincidence that we found him here, in this settlement, the next prize winner of the prize for the memory of the. Schlachta Margit, because he is a leader in a settlement where the management of the settlement is an example for everyone, no matter what kind of political leadership we are talking about, they are an example of how a settlement can be operated to become an earthly paradise. So what I can offer to all mayors is that they could go on an aspirin trip to Beremend, the southernmost settlement, and see what a fantastic way it can be beautifully, neatly, beautifully, building people's everyday lives to run a settlement. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-09-20-259	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Gergely Arató has applied for a post-meeting speech from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[20.00]]
u2021-09-20-260	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dániel Manhalter, a candidate for the Democratic Coalition in the city of József and Ferenc, drew my attention to the still unsolved problem of pollution on the Scented Road. It is memorable that in 2015, Krisztina Baranyi, as a municipal representative, pointed out that on Scenty Road, at the former site of the Budapest Chemical Works, dangerous chemicals are stored in barrels in bad condition, which pose a threat to the environment, water supply and soil. Pollution has appeared not only in the affected area, but also in the wider area, and may even endanger Stone Mine and Kispest through the groundwater. This matter is now off the table, or we talked less about it, since the barrels have been removed. But the thing is, according to Greenpeace's data, it's still not reassuring. In the case of carcinogenic benzene and chlorobenzene, the previous official measurements show that the limit value was 100 times, but up to 300 thousand times, in different samples, especially in the case of groundwater. Similarly, DDT, a also dangerous chemical, was found in the samples five hundred times the limit, so much so that, for example, the eggs of the hens in the area were found in these dangerous chemicals. As Mr Dániel Manhalter, the candidate Member, pointed out, the interested letter from the Municipality of Ferencváros revealed that this pollution and this danger did not stop today. President Richard Tarnai informed me that the last time he was understood was in 2011: in 2011, ten years ago there was a study where the amount of pollutants was fully, horizontally and vertically measured in all the monitoring stations, while some pollutants were reduced on the basis of detailed studies carried out in 2019, such as chlorbenzene and other hazardous substances, for example chlorinated hydrocarbons. Allow me to break out of my former chemistry teacher for a moment, and to say that these chlorinated hydrocarbons include, for example, carbon dichloride, which is a commonly used industrial solvent and is highly toxic, but the same substance is chloroform, which can also develop into phosgene with oxidation. After that, perhaps it is right to say that Ferencváros are rightly concerned, and they are right to be worried about the wider environment, in South Pest, as well as in Kőbánya and Kispesten. Mr Dániel Manhalter and Mayor Krisztina Baranyi rightly represent the views of the people who live there and rightly asks when the government will do something to permanently eliminate this threat, when the soil will be cleaned, soil changed and the damage will be completely eliminated. The government talks a lot about environmental protection, but it doesn't seem to do anything about it. It is quite typical that the government did not think that it should be here, even though in the title of the post- Agenda comment, I clearly indicated what the topic of the comment would have been, so if the government had wished, it would have responded to these allegations. Or you could have said that, because that is the most important thing when you will eliminate this enormous amount of soil pollution. It's not cheap, we're talking 15 billion forints, that's a lot. But I think we can all agree that the health of people living in the area, in the narrower and wider neighbourhood, cannot be solely a question of money, we cannot treat when this government will be able to afford it, especially in a situation where we see that the government can spend more money on a world hunting exhibition and much more. So I have to ask the government when to hear the cry for help from Dániel Manhalter, Mayor Krisztina Baranyi and the Ferencváros, when to finally provide the source needed to clean up this area, and so that we and our children can live safely. I will also put this question in writing, and I will not leave the Government alone until I have a meaningful, constructive answer to this question. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2021-09-20-261	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Varju has also applied for a post-meeting speech from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-20-262	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. I am taking advantage of the opportunity that I have had several times in the past, and I have had the opportunity to draw attention to events and events that, if Parliament makes a decision or does not make a decision, what the consequences and effects of it are. At the moment, there is an opportunity for the government or the majority to address the issue of climate change. We are now looking at this specifically through Újpest, Angyalföld or even Budapest as a whole. Climate change is definitely one of the problems of our time, if not the biggest problem to be solved. In addition to global solutions, it is very important that we do so at local level, because there will be insurmountable consequences if this does not happen. I would like to give you examples of how, if there are local efforts, we could help them, for example, by regulation, which I see the Fidesz government paying little attention to. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, together with my fellow opposition Members, we have already tabled a draft law on environmentally friendly Hungary, and we are looking forward to it and I hope that, in agreement with the governing majority, it will be able to support it. We consider that Hungary does not pay sufficient attention to the renewal of environmental protection, the development, introduction of climate change measures, the rethink of energy policy, the consequences of water scarcity or drought. I'm going to give you two examples of which the first one doesn't belong directly to the metropolitan environment, but we are going to live in these months. I'll give you an example of a Hortobágy. The drought of recent months has resulted in much less feed for animals, and farmers are able to farm much less feed. In English, this means that winter feed is now eaten. And what will happen in winter, what will happen to this situation? Will you shop, fellow Members? But I will also give you a positive example, but I could also give you a series of examples. The Municipality of Újpest has used the possibility of EU grants, which will bring climate awareness to a local level in Újpest. A European project with a new climate strategy in Újpest and social conditions for better adaptation to climate change have been developed. Here, too, the objectives are to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. But if we're talking about such big words, what does that mean in a big city? To find green surfaces, climate friendly local solutions, to change transport, to modify and develop buildings in public institutions, in complex energy renovations. And I will give you further examples of this. If in a kindergarten in Újpest the shade, greening and lawning are solved, a small step will be taken in this. Or if in a kindergarten there's a green wall that will change the interior of the building. Innovative technologies appear either by utilizing the solar panel, or what the municipality continues to maintain is that within the framework of nature and culture there is a Sandthorn Environmental Training Centre, which takes care of a unique situation, a unique protected area, and helps the Újpestians by using it for the sake of the city. And to say one interesting thing: such environmentally conscious thinking is possible even if there is a wine festival in Newpesten, and there are companies that are active in environmentally conscious production, and they are the guests. So, Újpest works in this way, helping climate change, but the great things, my fellow members of the government, must be decided by you. I ask you to support our bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]] [[20.10]]
u2021-09-20-263	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Zoltán Varga also applied for the post-meeting speech from the DK Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-09-20-264	Mr President, Dear House, I'm going to tell you a terrifying, vile, human life-threatening case, which is very typical of dictatorship, orbán dictatorship, and my greatest pain, my heartache, is that it's linked to a school in Debrecen. The Debrecen Ibolya Street Elementary School, which, unlike the International School in Debrecen, does not involve children of billion-dollar NER riders or economic service providers, but of ordinary, enthusiastic, well-meaning, well-meaning, hardworking, wages, salaries and, in many cases, children of families living in Debrecen from one day to the next, families in Debrecen who would not otherwise think of it, and their least concern is greater than to think that they are travelling to the well-known and new cash pump of Orbánek, the Pass of Mr. Zoltán Semén and Kovács, and is now slowly going to an international hunting exhibition that costs hundreds of billions and more. And it wouldn't occur to these families that their children will do all this in a joint school trip, for which they will have to pay, not even a little, forints per child. And probably no sober-thinking educator, city or district leader would even think about having hundreds of children to travel to Budapest just to look at stuffed corpses of animals, tasteless antlers from hundreds of millions, and firearms manufactured to extinguish life, perhaps from happiness, sight, and the great men, ministers, and state ministers who have been left in their own pocket after several hours of travel. All this, of course, has been told to me by the outraged parents, and as I have just said to you, it is mandatory and for money. A family that doesn't want their child to go away for this terrible thing has to apply directly to the principal for a reason why the child doesn't want to go. The principal of the Ibolya Street Elementary School in Debrecen, or the head of the school district, or the Fidesz governor of Debrecen, had to remember everything, since the school certainly announced this compulsory excursion, and a complete train was even reserved for 30 September, where the children would be sucked up and they would be disturbed to Budapest. All this, of course, in the threatening shadow of the fourth wave breathing more and more around our necks, to an event where, according to the government decree, no protective measures must be observed, where the virus may, indeed, be free to infect, and even though many will now be croaking from the pro-government benches, I must say this place could become a disease problem very easily, all of this by sending such students up to this event that many of the young students have not yet received the vaccine. I don't know, because I don't know whose idea this is. It is not possible that this is a unique case that I am talking about, or, according to the usual and well-known Fidesz practice in Debrecen, it is basically just a kitchen for what will then be extended to the whole country, that only one school in Debrecen invented this, or we will hear that children are also traveled from different cities, villages or settlements to serve the comfort and pleasure of the great men of Fidesz. I don't even know if the school principal is now a victim of the current insane system, or maybe a serene servant of the dictatorship. What I do know, however, is that this practice I'm talking about follows the North Korean pattern in a servile manner, when students are used to legitimize the ruling elite's crazy and crazy hobby, endangering, nota bene, sacrificing, without any particular thought. Perhaps the only difference, dear House, is that in that dictatorship, parents do not have to pay for this. Orbán's depraved, cynical, and depraved dictatorship, a dictatorship which, by the way, will end up in the trash heap of history in about six months, and the Hungarian people will erase from their memory the fact that Orbán even existed, so that the Hungarian parents in Debrecen have to pay for the depravity, and that is a shame. It's a shame what's going on here. This will be eliminated, the first Dobrev government will wipe out Orbán's vile system like whirlwinds in wooden houses. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2021-09-20-265	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Hajdu, from the DK Group, has also applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-20-266	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, I gave my post-meeting address to the hospital North Pest. Hospital for North Pest, by which I mean Budapest IV. Újpest and Budapest XV. its district, Rákospalota, Pestújhely, the area of New Palota, and the settlements of the agglomeration with 10-15 thousand inhabitants, which are without a hospital, and I am talking about about about 200,000 people. North Pest had a hospital, but he had a hospital. In North Pest 115 years ago, Árpád Hospital was built and operated until 2014, when, despite complete renovation in 2010, the hospital was closed without any consultation or consultation by the current government. We also had another hospital, very close to this, in Summer Street, the Károlyi Sándor Hospital, which is 125 years old, so ten years earlier. It could be said that the hospitals used to supply two cities with county rights were closed without justification, and that one year later, in 2015. So when we're looking for a hospital, we have a hospital, we have a hospital property, and we also have free real estate, where we can build a new hospital. Now North Pest, and I don't know how many districts are all assigned to the Honvéd Hospital, about a million and a half people belong to the Honvéd Hospital. It's impossible, unacceptable, and it can't afford to belong to a million and a half people. Regionally, 100 years ago, this hospital had a function, and that's what we want back. This is why László Varju, a representative of the district, has spoken on several occasions, and we have discussed this matter in person. This issue has now come up with elemental force when we have talked to a lot of people in the opposition pre-election, demanding, rightly and rightly demanding inpatient care back. Otherwise, there is a high level of outpatient care, which is only comprehensive if it is accompanied by inpatient care, and we would therefore like to resolve this issue. When this was closed, he was a Fidesz majority mayor of the body of representatives, two members of the Fidesz Parliament, one individual and one list representative, yet one word was not raised against the closure of these two hospitals. I would also like to mention here in my post- Agenda comment that we are not looking for a luxury hospital, not a center hospital, about 200 beds, I am not even saying that every class hospital should be. For this, the municipality, the municipality of Újpest, has prepared a preliminary study, supported by the Újpest body of representatives, especially the mayor, supported by the neighboring district, Mrs Cserdiné Németh Angéla mayor. I think that there is no obstacle to achieving this if the amount of the World Hunting Exhibition or other luxurious use has been made here, as they amount to about a hundred billion for a purpose that satisfies a one-time luxury opportunity, and here we believe that hospital care needs to be restored. Balázs Barkóczi, who is running for the primary in the Democratic Coalition, has held a joint press conference with Klára Dobrev and László Varju, and I believe that when he comes to government, because there will be a change of government, I am sure, especially in relation to such measures, we will consider the solution of this hospital based on the preliminary study. [[20.20]] But Balázs Barkóczi and László Varju, who will hopefully be here in Parliament, will monitor the implementation of this, and the new government will do so. That's why I raised my voice. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2021-09-20-267	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Bősz Anett from the DK Group also came forward after the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-09-20-268	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government's population policy can be said not to work the way we want it to, but I come from a city where it seems to work, but not because some kind of miracle happened in Érden, but because, because of the housing prices in Budapest, young couples often choose a agglomeration settlement as a home. In this way, Érd has been enriched with nearly 6,000 new residents over the past two years, which represents an increase of nearly 10 percent only during this period. Most of the new movers are young or children, so Érd and his region are becoming like the society that may otherwise be dreamed of by two thirds: many children, many young married, many little siblings that would entail obligations for the government and also for András Aradszki, a Member of Parliament in the region. What am I thinking here? The infrastructure is about the level of the '50s. Only in the youngest county town of Erden, 300 kilometers of road network is covered. Local citizens often dream about public transport in the city or in the region, porters, P+R parking lots, and that is not all. For years it has been apparent that there are not enough nursery and kindergarten seats, and the possibility of local economic development has been taken over by the state, but by the way, by NIPÜF Zrt. does not try, let's say, by listening to the word of the modern age, to design an information park for us, so that at least the environmental and noise burden can be reduced in Érden and its region. Economic development, but also the development of public institutions in the service of society, has been lagging behind. It is not a solution, ladies and gentlemen, that hundreds of children are left out of kindergarten or nursery care every year. The daily driving of commuters is further burdened by the fact that parents with small children are in many cases forced to find an institution in the neighbouring settlement. Kindergarten, nursery, and school are typically institutions that can be well planned when a child is born. We know exactly how many people will enter the nursery, very many where parents plan to get their mother back dynamically and quickly into the labour market, where they may be looking for a nursery place a few months before the child is born, so there is an obligation. There is an obligation that kindergarten is mandatory for everyone, so, my fellow Members, and I would like to look at the representatives of two thirds, of course, three years after the birth of the child, there is a place to create; if this is not available, there is a serious mistake. The sad truth is that the Prime Minister knew exactly what kind of commitment he should have made in the last ten years. It was also apparent that the government was in a major delay in this, and I would quote one figure: in 2019 the Prime Minister promised ten thousand new cradle seats, of which hardly more than 1,500 were realised. According to KSH data, in 2020 only 17.9 percent of children under the age of three had sufficient nursery seats, and according to a Eurostat data from 2019 88 thousand people do not work in our country, people who would otherwise like to be part of the labour market, but for their children there is no cradle space. I'm asking you, what is this if it's not national and social destruction? But I go on, mothers who want their children to go to daycare and return to work, but they can't do this because of the lack of space, they suffer very serious legal disadvantages, equal treatment is violated, equal dignity is violated, I say once again, for tens of thousands of people in this country. I have often said that we can see happy children and a balanced society when both mothers and fathers are happy. It is not possible to regularly violate parents' rights, it is not possible to meet parents in cities where the coral is desirable to be young, where we could be happy that yes, more and more playgrounds are needed, yes, more and more leisure parks are simply meeting parents who have to sit their noses down every day and say that we have to take the child to the neighboring settlement again, and that we do this by car, because even public transport has not solved our cities. They're all waiting for a solution. I'm hoping the new government will be able to do that. Thank you for listening. [[Applause for DK and Jobbik.]]
u2021-09-20-269	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. After the agenda, Mr Ádám Steinmetz from the Jobbik Group applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-20-270	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We have had a busy and fundamentally joyful summer this year, in Somogyország, we have participated in a number of community events, on village day, city events, festivals, without any discriminatory restrictions and the use of mouth masks. I was also a part of these, and I was very pleased to be able to enjoy these communal experiences together with our somogyi countrymen, not in one case when eating meals prepared with heart and great care. On the subject of the constituency, I would like to commemorate two more matters of fundamental importance here within the walls of this House, which have been partly implemented and may be partly implemented in the future. One is the case of the children's camp in Fonyódliget, which is an example of how the Fidesz government has transformed the community's wealth into the wealth of some in recent years. You know, this tens of billions of forints worth of former public property is now owned by a foundation, a foundation that hasn't had children in Fonyódliget since 2008, despite the promises, until the end of summer, since in August children arrived in Fonyódliget. However, it is another matter of the circumstances that they were received by. Anyone who has been to Fonyódliget recently has seen that in this camp, which Lőrinc Mészáros's companies have renovated it with HUF 4.5 billion of public money, this will be understood and written in quotes! What a sight to see. This is mostly a camp like a refugee camp surrounded by barbed wire, a tent camp with plastic tarpaulins on a metal frame, where twenty children are crowded into a windowless, basically airless, yurt - called tent on bunk beds, where there is no water block. For example, you can imagine the climatic conditions prevailing in these rooms during a 40 - degree summer heat, especially when the trees in the camp were otherwise not cut down by Attila Móring József, and everything else was bulldozed, they made them equal to the ground. So it's just pathetic what they've done with so much money, in contrast to previous promises and previous visual plans, especially with so much money. I think you can't just walk away from this. Another such issue, which the walls of this House have long known and could hear from me regularly, is the issue of the development of the hospital in Marcal, which has been joined by thousands of Somogy citizens in recent months, and I believe that this has also resulted in a government decision on 4 August which envisages the renovation of the castle and the environment of the hospital in Marcal and, by the way, billions of forints of assets. However, the change of function of the castle, the renovation and the specific acquisition of assets will take place and what they mean and what the deadline is, we could not get an answer from the Fidesz MP of the region, Attila Móring József. What interests us in particular is that these improvements will result in more new doctors in the hospital in Marcal, increase the brutally low wages of nurses, and acquire the tools that have been promised for a long time, the medical and diagnostic tools that can improve the quality of care in Marcali. [[20.30]] What we hope from this development is that they will no longer have to travel to Kaposvár, and we will finally have a professionally, organisationally and economically truly independent, strong hospital that the Marcalians and tens of thousands of people living in the district deserve. Since I do not see an answer on the government side, I will turn to the competent minister, the representative of the competent ministry, with these specific questions, with the question of the slaughter of tens of thousands of Somogy citizens, because these questions cannot go unanswered. Thank you for listening.
u2021-09-20-271	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your day's work. The Parliament will resume its work at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Good night, everyone, and good morning. Meeting day's closed.
