u2021-12-01-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 17th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the meeting will be Mr Attila Móring and Csaba Gyure. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Ladies and gentlemen, A general debate on the presentation of amendments to the International Convention on the Training, Certification and Watchkeeping of Seafarers of 1978 adopted in 2014, 2015 and 2016 will follow. The government referral is T/17667. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Mosóczi, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-12-01-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Consolidated by the 2010 Manila amendments to the International Convention on the Training, Certification and Watchkeeping of Seafarers of 1978, the text of Article XIX of 2012 It's out of the question. It's out of the question. The so-called STCW Convention establishes internationally agreed uniform standards for the training and certification of seafarers of all nations, thus ensuring that crews are trained and capable of performing their duties on ships at sea. Its aim in this context is to safeguard the safety of life and property at sea and to protect the marine environment. The purpose of the bill before you is to announce the amendments to the International Convention adopted in 2014, 2015 and 2016, which includes a total of six resolutions adopted by the Maritime Safety Committee of the International Maritime Organisation. The amendments introduce, inter alia, new definitions of the audit system and Arctic waters, as well as new minimum standards of competence for occupational health and safety precautions to prevent threats to ships. It also introduces standards for the storage of fuel on board ships, the implementation of emergency plans on-board and procedures for alerting and evacuation of passengers, and the prevention of pollution and environmental hazards. Dear House, In view of the certification certificates issued in States Parties under the STCW Convention and the number of references to the specific provisions of the STCW Convention in the Ministerial Decree on Maritime Qualifications, it is also appropriate to transfer amendments to the Convention, in particular as nearly 250 Hungarian seafarers holding certificates issued abroad under the STCW Convention, who are also affected by the rules and conditions for training and certification contained in the amendments. Furthermore, it is part of the legislative work relating to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council to publish by law amendments to the International Convention on the Training, Certification and Watchkeeping of Seafarers of 1978 adopted in 2015 and 2016. I ask the Honourable Parliament to approve the proposed bill and to support the publication of amendments to the International Convention on the Training, Certification and Watchkeeping of Seafarers, 1978, adopted in 2014, 2015 and 2016. Thank you very much for your attention. (Attila Móring József takes his place) in the notary seat. )
u2021-12-01-2	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to János Pócs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-12-01-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. The bill before us is about integrating an international convention into domestic legislation, with the aim of harmonising legislation and meeting modern requirements. Our country has a long and glorious history with regard to sailors. This is the case even if we do not have a single sea at the moment. Therefore, in line with international expectations, he wants to continue to pursue high-level naval training, consistent with the traditions of Hungary. The bill contains required criteria of experience, safety, training and competence, which increase the integrity of the individual, in addition to the safety of the community, of the profession. The training conditions are very versatile and include the procedures to be known by the master, the radio operator, the officer or the performing seafarers serving on ships covered by the IGF Code. In this respect, the bill differentiates between basic training and advanced training, which seafarers with different responsibilities should be aware of. At the same time, as amended by the STCW Code, management may grant exemptions to seafarers serving on such ships or classes from certain requirements, taking into account their vitality, but only if they are on board, safety of ships and property and the protection of the marine environment are fully achieved. The bill relies to a large extent on other international conventions, which provide guidance for the continuation of safe shipping activities in various circumstances, such as how to sail in Arctic waters. It is also important to note that the continuation of shipping activities may take place for a number of purposes, which requires quite different practices in view of the type of ship, its crew, its cargo and any passengers. The amendment is therefore necessary not only because of increasing experience but also because of continuous technological development, consumption patterns and changes in environmental standards. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Please accept the bill before us, as it is necessary for its modernity, the need to comply with international law, and contains substantive and procedural rules that clarify from a legal point of view, fill the gaps in the past, and create regulatory consistency in the context of other laws. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-01-4	Thank you. The opinion of the Jobbik Group will be presented by Mrs Kotocsáné Kőrösi Anita. Here you go. [[9.10]]
u2021-12-01-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, When Parliament is faced with a proposal to transpose or amend international conventions into our country, I think we all agree that the adoption of international conventions is, in any case, an aspect that we must fulfil from the point of view of our country. There have been amendments to the International Convention on the Training and Certification of Seafarers that have been described in detail by the Secretary of State, and I would like to overlook that. Of course, the Jobbik Group supports all international conventions and amendments that can make such a positive change for our country, as Hungarians also serve on ships that sail on the seas, and that is, of course, what we can support. Thank you again.
u2021-12-01-6	Thank you. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-12-01-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As has been said, the purpose of the current bill is to publish amendments to the International Convention on the Training, Certification and Watchkeeping of Seafarers, 1978, adopted in 2014, 2015 and 2016, and to transpose it into Hungarian law. The publication of amendments in 2014, 2015 and 2016 by law is an obligation and task of the Hungarian Parliament. Although Hungary is unfortunately less affected as a land country, we consider the amendments to the Convention containing the professional proposals of the international maritime organisation acceptable and eligible, as the amendments introduce new definitions of the audit system and Arctic waters, among other things. In addition, the amendments include provisions on occupational health and safety precautions of a higher degree than previously required. The requirements for safe water transport and the establishment of stricter environmental rules are important international interests, so the KDNP fraction will support the legislative publication of the Convention's amendments adopted in 2014, 2015 and 2016, thus also fulfilling our EU legal harmonisation obligations. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-01-8	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'm going to ask if there's anyone else who'd like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask the national secretary of state how he wishes to react. [[Dr. László Mosóczi:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-12-01-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the unanimous support of the bill. I believe that we have also achieved a significant step in the development of this tiny segment of our transport. I wish you good work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-01-10	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Now I'm ordering a three-minute technical break. (Recess: 9.13-9.17) President: Dr. Brenner Koloman Tickets: József Móring Attila and Dr. Csaba Gyüre)
u2021-12-01-11	Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. There will be a general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws on financial and economic matters until closure. The government referral is T/17670. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-12-01-12	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On 23 November 2021, the Government submitted to Parliament a bill amending certain laws on financial and economic matters, which proposes to amend eight laws. Before presenting the main proposals for amendments, allow me to indicate that the bill before you can further strengthen predictability and predictability for economic operators, and these are very important aspects in the economic situation of the pandemic. The Government also clarifies, by submitting the bill, that it continues to consider disciplined fiscal management as a basis and that the objective remains to operate a simpler public finance system, and the bill therefore affects certain provisions of the Public Finance Act on several points. One of the most significant points of this is the fact that the provisions contained in the bill provide for the possibility that the central budgetary bodies involved in the implementation of the central budget will be a modern, as of 1 January 2022, under Article XXI. They can carry out their diverse tasks with a new system of public finances that meets the technological challenges of the 20th century. This is the aim of the system developed by the Hungarian Treasury and operating as part of the information system for central public finances from the beginning of next year, supporting the implementation of the central budget. This will be an integrated IT system that records and manages all financial, economic and accounting data relating to the implementation of the budget. The implementation of this will reorganise the treasury tasks related to the implementation of the budget and will further develop its IT support. [[9.20]] Financial management and related administrative activities necessary for the implementation of the central budget will be transparent, efficient and processes associated with them will be more uniform and simpler to implement. Ladies and Gentlemen, In addition to creating the foundations of the IT system, the bill before you concerns the system of public finances, its legal provisions, in connection with the functioning of the system supporting the implementation of the central budget. Allow me to take some of these examples. In itself, the fact that the Hungarian Treasury will manage and record their claims, commitments and other payment obligations on the basis of uniform data provided by the budgetary bodies in the central sub-scheme implies that the government will provide more substantiated information on the engagement of appropriations and on the date on which the commitments are expected to be paid. In this way, accurate information on expected payments will be available to support more effective financing decisions. This makes the financing of central budgetary bodies more precise and predictable by means of a parallel reduction in administration. In addition to all this and transparency, the public debt assessment of beneficiaries will be simplified. In addition, a modern integrated financial analysis system to facilitate budget planning and implementation ensures that pre-decision information is available in close-to-real time. A significant part of the financing revenue in the central budget shall be provided on the basis of advances each year. Practical experience has shown that the application for advance payments, their processing and the execution and monitoring of advance and repayment transactions represent a significant administrative burden in certain segments of public finances. These burdens are reduced by the provisions of the bill on the basis of which advances in public finances would be abolished in the case of the financial basis for social security. This does not, of course, jeopardise the execution of payments. At the same time, it means that the financing of the financial funds for social security would in future be similar to the financing of centralised appropriations. Thus, the amounts not used by the end of the budget year could be taken out at the end of the year and thus would no longer have a budget balance in the future. The proposal therefore simplifies the implementation of the budget in our view. Honourable Members, In addition to the general government rules set out above, the bill includes further important changes, not only to public finances but also to the real economy. The most important objectives of the government are to preserve Hungary's energy sovereignty, to further strengthen energy security, to maintain the results of the reduction in energy efficiency and to decarbonise energy production, which can only be achieved through the combined use of nuclear energy and renewable energy sources. One of the most important international requirements for the safe use of nuclear energy is that the authority responsible for nuclear safety is independent of the interests of producers, owners and service providers. In view of this, and in order to fulfil in full and timely terms the priority tasks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant enlargement process, it has become necessary to review the legislation on the National Atomic Energy Agency and to strengthen certain powers of the Authority. From 1 May 2022, an independent regulatory and supervisory authority with adequate human and financial resources may also be established in the performance of its tasks. In the course of its operation, the National Atomic Energy Office is subject solely to the legislation, cannot be ordered in its function, and carries out its tasks separately from other bodies, without any influence. The purpose of this bill is to establish the legal basis for regulating the nuclear safety requirements of nuclear installations and radioactive waste storage facilities, as well as related official activities and radiation protection procedures, in accordance with these requirements and in order to achieve consistency with other legislation, by the President of the National Atomic Energy Office. Dear Parliament, In order to improve the possibilities and profitability of the film industry, it was also necessary to amend the Motion Picture Act, with particular attention to the priority strategic role of the industry in Hungary and to maintain its international competitiveness. To this end, we are proposing to remove restrictions on the eligibility of the cost of supplies and services performed by domestic individuals in the production of films. To this end, the current threshold of HUF 12 million for remuneration in the form of costs or expenses for the production of films and films under the Income Tax Act and the Law on the simplified public burden contribution will be completely abolished for individuals with domestic jurisdiction under the proposal. For foreign individuals, the threshold of HUF 3 million remains. The amendment is necessary because the current legislation has too limited the operation of Hungarian actors and crew members who have admitted and paid their tax obligations in a transparent manner. This also became particularly pronounced after the changes in the rules on taxation under the specific tax of the taxpayer after 1 January 2021. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the context of the restriction of the retail sale of electronic cigarettes and related products to tobacco shops subject to concession, the Constitutional Court called on the Parliament to establish the appropriate legal compensation rules for those affected by the restriction of the right to an undertaking. In compliance with this call, the present bill clarifies the legal framework for financial compensation already established for the retailers concerned by amending the law on reducing smoking of minors and on the retail trade in tobacco products. Dear Parliament, On 2 November 2021, the Government submitted a bill amending individual laws in the field of defence and law enforcement. This proposal also sets out new rules on the status of candidates for law enforcement officers. The training, preparation and socialization of candidates for officers of finance officers and other law enforcement bodies takes place in the Faculty of Law and Orders of the National University of Public Service, according to the same requirements, with uniform expectations. In view of this, it is also necessary to amend the rules on candidates for finance officers. As a result of the amendment contained in this bill, the provisions on the relationship of candidates for finance officers would no longer be laid down in a scholarship agreement, but would be laid down in a law. On the basis of this amendment, candidates for officers will also be entitled to basic salary, tuition fees and allowances. The different rate of basic salary per year, the amount of the tuition fee and the additional salary will be determined by a ministerial decree, but the proposed amendment also states that they must not be lower than the guaranteed minimum wage at the time. Therefore, if the amendment contained in the bill was supported, the eligibility of candidates for officers would increase significantly, thus making this profession more attractive. In parallel with the above, the bill states that the candidate for office is obliged to serve at the National Tax and Customs Office for 10 years instead of the current eight years. In the event of failure to comply with this obligation, the candidate would be obliged to repay the pro rata part of the salary in the cases specified in the bill. These include, inter alia, the termination of the legal relationship by resignation, by common accord, transfer to another law enforcement body, the declaration of conflicts of interest on a sanction basis, the non-compliance with the requirement of sound living or the establishment of national security risk. If the candidate officer ceases to be a candidate for office because he does not fulfil his obligations in relation to progress in studies or terminates his/her status as a student, but has a candidate for office, he/she shall be assigned to an accounting officer's post by the Head of the NAV at the same time as he/she is appointed to serve in tax and customs service with any of the NAV's bodies. In exceptional circumstances of appreciation, it would also be possible for him to be appointed as a civilian in the event of termination of the rank of officer for the above reasons. The bill does not substantially affect the other rights and obligations of candidates for officers. The above regulation would enter into force on 1 January 2022 and, with the exception of senior students, the legal relationship of current candidates for officers will be changed from 1 August 2022, provided that the data subject agrees. [[9.30]] Dear Parliament, Finally, a number of provisions of the bill before Parliament, the individual amendments and regulatory clarifications are in line with the intention of relaunching the national economy and its predictable functioning. With particular regard to the amendment concerning public money, I highly recommend discussing the bill and supporting it at a later stage. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-01-13	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Sándor Hadházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-01-14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We have also heard in the expoze, the T/17670, before us, on the amendment of certain laws on financial and economic matters. Legislative bill No. 1 includes amendments to eight laws. The Secretary of State has provided information on all eight laws and has supported the proposal in a professional manner. Therefore, in my speech, I would like to highlight and emphasise only a few elements that I consider to be important. The aim of the bill is to adapt to the ever-changing economic processes in the case of several economic and financial laws, in order to facilitate the protection of the economy that is still functioning and is constantly developing, following the relaunch of the domestic economy. Dear Parliament, According to the amendment of the Public Finance Act, the 2011 CXCV on Public Finances. Amendment of Act No 202 provides for the possibility for central budgetary bodies involved in the implementation of the central budget to be a modern, as from 1 January 2022, in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. They can carry out their diverse tasks with a new system of public finances that meets the technological challenges of the 20th century. To this end, the legal basis of the system supporting the implementation of the central budget will be established, which will be the integrated IT system, which will be developed by the Hungarian State Treasury, which will also record and manage all financial, economic and accounting data relating to the implementation of the central budget. The Hungarian Treasury will manage and keep records of the claims, commitments and other payment obligations of these budgetary bodies on the basis of the uniform data provided by the budgetary bodies within the central sub-scheme, making the implementation of the budget much more predictable and smoother. The bill would introduce control at the level of the priority appropriations and simplify the public debt assessment of beneficiaries while keeping transparency in mind. Dear Parliament, The main elements of the amendment to the Act on the status of National Tax and Customs Office personnel are as follows. The bill fundamentally alters the rights and obligations of candidates for officers. On the basis of the amendment, unlike the status of former Scholarship Officers' Candidates, the legal relationship is established by appointment by the Head of the NAV and the rights and obligations of the parties are determined by law in respect of all content elements. The appointment shall be given to the candidate for officer no later than 15 days prior to the basic law enforcement training. The primary duty of the officer-designate shall be to prepare for the performance of service in the duties of the law enforcement body in the class of officers. In the context of the above, the proposal sets out in detail the cases of termination of a candidate for office. If the candidate for office fails to fulfil his obligations in relation to the progress in studies as set out in the rules of study and examination and the curriculum or terminates his/her status as student, the candidate for office shall cease by law, lose his/her post until then, and he/she shall be assigned by the head of the NAV to any body of the NAV in class 2 finance officer's post at the same time as he/she is appointed to the service of the tax and customs authorities. The Head of the NAV may, at the request of the candidate for office and in the light of the individual interest of the candidate for office, allow further employment in the status of officer and in the official post, instead of further employment in the position of finance officer. The candidate shall be entitled to a salary per month as defined in the Minister's decree, consisting of basic salary, tuition fee and additional salary. The basic salary shall be at least equal to the guaranteed minimum wage. The proposal also lays down provisions on the disciplinary and compensation liability of the candidate for officer, in so far as the candidate for officer is in breach of his/her obligation as a candidate for officer or as a student, he/she is insubordination. On the basis of the proposed transitional provision, the current status of candidate officer will be transformed, with effect from 1 August 2022, by virtue of the law, into the status of candidate officer under the amendment. Prior to the transformation, the provision provides for the possibility for the current candidates of officers to declare their acceptance of the new law enforcement status by the deadline set on the basis of prior information. Dear Parliament, The successful re-launch of the Hungarian economy will allow parents raising children to return their income tax paid this year to the average wage level. The tax refund is a historic step, and no government has ever left such a large amount of money for families. The refund shall be granted to all parents who are entitled to a family allowance, pregnant women and their spouses and beneficiaries of an invalidity allowance may apply for a refund. If both parents have declared jobs in the family, they will both get their personal income tax back. The same applies to those living in a partnership if they have a child together and are raised together. The tax refund will also be paid to entrepreneurs if they raise a child. The right holders also include self-employed persons, farmers, landlords of real estate, katas and Ekhós taxpayers. Catastic entrepreneurs can get back a quarter of their 2021 item tax, and Ekhós taxpayers can get back two thirds of their paid 15% tax. The amount to be recovered shall be the amount of personal income tax actually paid in 2021, but not more than the average annual wage tax rate calculated on the basis of the December 2020 data. The majority of those concerned need not do anything; until 15 February 2022, the tax authority will automatically allocate the amount due to them. Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, the Fidesz faction supports the proposal, and I ask you to support it with your votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[9.40]]
u2021-12-01-15	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is Anita Potocskané Kőrösi, who presents the opinion of the Jobbik Group. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-12-01-16	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of the year, when amendments to tax and other financial laws come in, a slightly larger package of legislative proposals comes in. Now I have also been looking for the changes, the tax cuts that will obviously be discussed in the debate on the next bill, but when I reviewed this bill, which is now lying before us, I have seen us talking about a salad law that we opposition representatives have repeatedly said is a huge problem that there are legislative amendments in the salad law that we can, of course, support with a good heart, but unfortunately, we always manage to smuggle in some legislative proposals that opposition Members do not like to say yes to. And I am not referring to what has already been received in connection with the amendment of the Public Finance Act, because any integrated IT system that makes it easier, as is the case now, to introduce an SMER system to support the implementation of the central budget, because this is forward-looking and facilitates the work of colleagues working in public finances and working in the monitoring of the budget. Of course, we opposition representatives, too, have had a positive, forward-looking system to monitor the implementation of the central budget, and the legal conditions for it are now laid down in the bill before us. I think it's a very positive change. We also appreciate, of course, that there is an amendment to the status of candidates for officers working at the National Tax and Customs Office that their remuneration is increasing. In all such sectors, when a salary increases, is a proposal to be supported, but is parallele an increase in the amount by increasing the bonding to a clot? Now it's being raised eight times ten years, and that gives us question marks. Of course, if we are talking about an increase in remuneration and its extent, then we would certainly like to see the runaway inflation, which is more than 6.5 percent, coming back in these increases in remuneration, because we can see that, unfortunately, the increases in inflation are not following the level of inflation in this sector, but also in other sectors. Mr. Secretary of State began his expo with a disciplined budget management of the Orbán government. Then I would like to ask you with respect why the budget for 2021 is now slowly reaching a budget deficit of HUF 3000 billion. Is this parallel to disciplined farming? We here in the opposition's benches sometimes find that there are spending that does not necessarily serve to restart the economy, and I am thinking of the fact that there are still a lot of investments that you always say are being made to create jobs. Yeah, just for these facilities, let's talk about stadiums or the construction of facilities that will have to be operated somehow. We see what your solution is: let us give these stadiums to the farmers, let them operate them if they wish, what you have built with hundreds of billions of forints of public money, the Hungarian people's money. And while we're here to play football and stadiums, you can see in this bill that there are such liebling sectors for you, one is football and soccer players, where they have set a very high limit of ecclesiastical income, and so they are practically a very, very preferential category of taxation. And now here's the next liebling, filmmaking and Hungarian actors. We agree that if we want to give support to the actors, but this is a special attention, which now falls on them to abolish the ceiling of HUF 12 million. And quite rightly, Mr Secretary of State has also brought the legislative places on cataclysmic changes, that there has also been a change in the cataclysms. How good it would have been to read in this legislation now that the HUF 3 million limit introduced last year would have been abolished and the possibilities extended there as well. No, you now favour film makers by abolishing the HUF 12 million limit. All in all, I would therefore like to say not to detail the detailed description of the eight legislative proposals that you have already presented, that it is clear that there are some forward-looking signs, but that much more positive amendments to the financial law could have been introduced. You didn't do that. Of course, I also look forward to what amendments may be tabled in the debate in this legislation. Our support will then be developed. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-12-01-17	Thank you. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-12-01-18	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, My fellow Member, Jobbik, said that there are such lieblings, as I understand it, priority groups, which we like to support. You're absolutely right: that's family people, that's small and medium-sized enterprises, that's what cradle workers, social workers, health workers, cultural workers, that's who raise children, that's what they do for a living, so you're right, there are groups like that. This group is quite wide, we might call it the Hungarian society for which we work here every day, and who, for example, the Ministry of Finance employees try to put in a better position day by day, month by month, in a more favourable position and help them. [[Sándor Hadházy applauds.]] I take these charges, honourable Member, which you have made. Yes, I think that in Hungary, who lives from work, who raises a child, who does value-creating activities, should be helped, so I would not highlight groups in as much detail as you have done, but rather work to achieve the broadest possible layers of these measures. In my view, this has been the case in recent years, and the range of beneficiaries of the government's favourable tax policy, for example: low personal income tax, continuous reduction of small company tax, continuous reduction of employers' burdens, and so on. You have made these accusations, and I am proud of them that such an economic policy and tax policy has been implemented in the last 11-12 years, which has very, very many beneficiaries in Hungary today. I think it's right, and it's worth keeping. Eight laws are amended by the bill before us. Mr Secretary of State has spoken about these in more detail. I would like to draw attention to three important details without the need for completeness. Firstly, the current amendment to the Public Finance Act provides for the possibility that central budgetary bodies involved in the implementation of the central budget will be involved from 1 January 22, i.e. after a month, a modern, XXI. They can carry out their diverse tasks with a new system of public finances, meeting the challenges of the 20th century technology. To this end, the legal basis of the system supporting the implementation of the central budget is established, which has been developed by the Hungarian Treasury and will be an integrated IT system that records and manages all financial, economic and accounting data relating to the implementation of the central budget. Here, however, I can join my better fellow Member that any IT system that is integrated in helping the communication and operation of various budgetary bodies, where there is a kind of insight into what is happening in the Ministry of Finance, in the Treasury, and not only should we run after events and look for possible misunderstandings or errors, and which simplifies, digitizes these processes, is, I think, definitely welcome and correct. This integrated IT system will help to reduce the administrative burden of the state by a further step, and the process of more efficient, modern budgetary implementation. The Hungarian Treasury will manage and keep records of the claims, commitments and other payment obligations of these budgetary bodies on the basis of uniform data provided by budgetary bodies within the central sub-scheme. Secondly, it is a priority for me to reduce underage smoking. [[9.50]] On several occasions, we have talked through several legislative proposals, and I do not say that we have argued, because there may be agreement in this House across the horseshoe that everything needs to be done to reduce the smoking of young people, and I think that smoking in society as a whole should be reduced and that a healthier society and a healthier air society should be created. So I also welcome the amendment of this law, as we can remember that the Constitutional Court stated in a resolution that the National Assembly caused a failure to comply with the fundamental law by not providing for adequate compensation for those affected by the restriction of the right to an undertaking while restricting the retail of electronic cigarettes and related products to tobacco shops subject to concession. Since there is a rule of law in Hungary, final court judgments, the Constitutional Court decisions, must be enforced, so this bill settles those challenged by the Constitutional Court. The amendment creates a legal framework for the financial compensation of the retailers concerned, while at the same time authorising the government to adopt a regulation on the detailed rules for the rights of persons or organisations entitled to financial compensation as defined by law to the sale of electronic cigarettes, refill plates or electronic means of smoking in the retail sector on 20 May 2016. Thirdly, the bill amends the rights and obligations of candidates for officers in relation to the staff of the National Tax and Customs Office. On the basis of the amendment, candidates for officers, unlike the former Scholarship candidate status, will have a legal relationship with the appointment of the leaders of the NAV and the rights and obligations of the parties for all content elements will be determined by law. An important change is that the candidate officer is obliged to continue his studies at his best ability and to serve at NAV for at least 10 years after his appointment in the service of the tax and customs authorities. The candidate shall take part in a police basic training procedure six months after enrollment, at the end of which he shall take a candidate officer's exam, and thereafter an oath prescribed to the finance officer. The candidate of officers shall serve in the NAV's rank as a candidate for office in accordance with his student career. The proposal also lays down provisions on the disciplinary and compensation liability of the candidate officer. Therefore, if the candidate for office violates his duty as a candidate for office or as a student, he is insubordination. On the basis of the transitional provision under the proposal, the current status as a candidate for office will be transformed by law into a candidate for office under the amendment with effect from 1 August 2022. The current system of the National Tax and Customs Office was established in 2011 by CXXX of 2020 on the integration of the former tax office and the Customs and Finance Office and on the status of the personnel of the National Tax and Customs Office adopted in 2020. a single NAV legal relationship has been established by law. In the last ten years, tax revenues from the central budget have been constantly increasing while the government has made a significant tax reduction for workers, families and businesses. In addition to the dynamic expansion of the Hungarian economy in recent years, this proves the whitening of the economy and the effective work of the NAV. The current amendments to the NAV's rank as a candidate for office contribute to the goal of creating an even more professional and even more prepared staff of the NAV. In terms of salaries, educational requirements, study conditions and career advancement, the status of candidate officer under the amendment will be more favourable than that of the former candidate for scholarship. In addition to all these important and necessary amendments, the bill also includes legislative harmonisation, text-focusing and language positioning changes. The KDNP fraction will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-01-19	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, who presents the opinion of the MSZP Group. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-12-01-20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, First of all, I would like to respond to some of the sentences of my fellow Member Nacsa. When you said that you, of course, supported the Hungarian families in recent years, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this week, András Tállai, if I remember correctly, said on Monday that the Hungarian families simply do not notice anything from high inflation and the resulting rise in food prices. Every happy, all good, even though the price of food oil increased by 30 percent, the bread is already 10 percent. We could simply list until morning the brutal way food prices have risen. But we can talk about the deterioration of the forint and its consequences, or the runaway fuel prices, that it has been frozen in vain here at the last minute, when everyone has asked, all political parties to act by the Hungarian government. And we could talk about the runaway construction price. You do not talk about this much here, within the walls of Parliament, but stand up and say that everything is fine here, how good it is for Hungarian families. I just wanted to say that as an introduction. The speakers before me have already said that we are seeing eight amendments to the laws on financial and economic matters. Yes, we can see that we are talking again about laws that are not closely linked to each other, we can say that we are talking again about a salad law. My fellow Member, Anita Kőrösi, has already said that there are essentially positive elements in this legislative amendment that could be supported, but this is what we have seen over the last 12 years that these salad laws are being done to trap the opposition and then yell in every media near the government that they have not voted for these cool laws again. But in the meantime, they don't talk about the fact that in these legislative amendments, which are not closely linked, there is always a twist that you simply can't support as a politician or as a human being. Some things; amendments to the Nuclear Power Act. Here the proposal concerns a number of laws, as explained. Due to the transformation of the nuclear monitoring body, part of the unsubstantiated codification work is only now being carried out, such as the establishment of the President's powers of regulation. The other amendment is related to the motion picture, the film industry. My fellow Member has already said that here they want to introduce a discount for film producers, where the threshold of HUF 12 million will be abolished. Yes, it was well said by my fellow Member, Anita Kőrösi, that we saw the same thing in the legislation of footballers when they received the tax relief. It's a bit more brutal, let's be honest, although the threshold of HUF 12 million is gone here as well. And when the Secretary of State said in his introduction that the Katáks had been given a great deal of advantage: no, restrictions were introduced at the Katás companies, since they had a notification obligation for an invoice of over HUF 1 million, and when an entrepreneur has more than HUF 3 million in billing, they can no longer do so at a reduced rate. So what we see is that there are sectors, and let us not argue about that with my fellow Member Nacsa, yes, there are very important groups for Fidesz, where they can give all the benefits, while for other groups it does not work that way. Amendment to the Public Finance Act: yes, we could say that this is a reduction in bureaucracy, which this government announced first in 2010. Then we saw how, in the spirit of cutting red tape, the number of State Secretarys increased, the number of Deputy State Secretarys, the increase in the budget of this big organization, the budget number of the government's operation year after year. So we don't see bureaucracy cut here. Let me give you one example, because you would think that the 21st century would be an example. In the first century, when we are developing information technology, we could talk about the fact that we already have data from government windows, government agencies, that these changes are very easy to make, or any such citizen-related issues. Of course, let us be honest with you that in the middle of the pandemic, this has been difficult, because in most cases you avoid personal administration; and this is when you would say how much it is necessary for the IT system to work well. The only example is that I have now lived in person: since my daughters have gone to college, they have passed 18 years, the family tax reduction and the family allowance change. Well, imagine, even the Treasury can't do a good job of recording the number of my three children the way they're supposed to. [[10.00]] There is a problem with my daughters being twins, and as a result, the data is not always well recorded, but we could talk about a lot more. What we can criticize here is that we do not know from the law amendment who will be entitled to look into these data. This is a matter to be clarified, and I hope that Mr Secretary of State will answer that. A provision made by the Constitutional Court is lifted in relation to reducing the smoking of minors. It must always be said when we talk about reducing underage smoking, why you have amended this law. It was a redistribution of the market. You weren't trying to protect juvenile health, oh, you didn't think of that, but you didn't think of that. They redistributed the market, just like the redistribution of gambling, just like the redistribution of rural convenience stores, now we see that they provide a new economic opportunity for economic circles close to you, or as the distribution of state land has taken place. So I would like to speak a little more quietly, because you always say how much you want to protect the health of Hungarian people. The last point is that the training of the NAV officers' candidates is substantially changing. Yes, as my previous opposition colleague said, discounts are being made, but they are being tightened up, clots are being fixed, years are being increased, ten-year nuggets are being fixed. I think it's always the trap in these salad laws that you give me something, give me a raise, but with very hard restrictions. They say, "Well, then, for ten years, no one goes anywhere, can't change their workplace, and if this amendment is not accepted, they'll lose their legal status." We have already seen this in healthcare workers, even in other sectors, that, yes, you cannot give Hungarian workers something negative, something very serious, in this change. It could be said that, of course, it is the duty of the state that if we give a great wage increase, then the employee should be grateful and thank the state. That's not how we opposition politicians think. Yes, there is much to support from this salad law, but precisely because of these, we cannot support it now on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party. One last thing I almost forgot, Mr. President, I'm sorry. The lead speaker of Fidesz, my fellow Member, spoke about tax refunds. We have just heard from Minister Mihály Varga, we have just heard from ministers in all committees, and Minister Mihály Varga has also said that the tax refund, the tax reduction of entrepreneurs, the payment of pensions will amount to about HUF 2000 billion. We need to talk about why now. Why 2022? I know, Congressman, you're going to say that because our economy is soaring, there's so much money in the budget now, which is not true, and we can see that it's not true. Well, there's an election coming up in 2022. You are saying that Hungarian families will receive about HUF 600 billion back with this tax refund. I hope that you will also be in favour of how much money you have taken from the Hungarian families in the last 12 years, for example, because the family allowance has not been raised or how much money has been taken from the Hungarian families, because, let's say, the family tax relief that you introduced in 2011, the one child and the three children has not been raised in more than ten years, only the two children have been raised in half. You have lost a great deal of your value, honourable Member, this discount, too. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It wasn't before!]] We have not, but we have given you other support, honourable Member. I would say that, for example, the minimum wage was tax-free, the smallest earners did not pay taxes, but now the minimum wage earners pay very serious taxes in Hungary. When we talk about how much they reduce their tax burden for employers, we see that workers are already paying three times as much tax to the Hungarian state as employers. Now, this difference between us is that you support employers by all means, let workers pay taxes, let them pay the highest VAT in Europe, let them pay the consequences of all the bad economic steps that I have just told you, so that the price of food prices, fuel prices and building materials that have run loose. So let the Hungarian families pay everything, the point is that these taxes that families pay, get into the Hungarian budget, and thank the government very much, are still very well. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-12-01-21	Thank you. The main speakers will be closed by Mr László Varju, who will present the opinion of the DK Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-12-01-22	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. This gives me the opportunity to use the T/1767. I can express our position on Law No.1, which was already heard in advance. I'm sorry. You could hear it in advance. We have heard that we have before us a salad law that grabs a lot of things at once and then actually catches a little bit. In such a case, I also think that it is necessary to raise and ask where the impact assessment is, if such significant amendments are already being made, such as the system supporting the implementation of the central budget, why the related analyses are not made available to Members. I would like to say that we can fundamentally agree with digitalisation, the expansion and development of information technology, and we hope that if there were such an impact assessment, we could talk about the fact that, as a result, not only will it be for government actors, but it could also happen that Members can be more informed about the current moment. And not as in the case of the amendment that I have now in hand, Mr Secretary of State, which was announced last night in the context of disciplined budget management, and in which it is listed how almost HUF 100 million is transferred from the budgetary support of the disease control fund to the operation of diplomats in Istanbul and Rome. I could tell you more, because the amendment comes from week to week, day to day, but when we ask interpretation questions about them, I'm going to ask you, in the past period, I'm guessing you owe me at least one per week, which should be answered. To tell you the truth, I am not satisfied with what you gave me the last time I heard from the Minister, or even before you, to turn to the Ministry and ask them why this was necessary. We agreed that this is not a procedure, the Ministry of Finance would be responsible for helping and giving Members the right information, not to say that I should read the Hungarian Gazette more frequently. So from this point of view, I think that this does not support what the Secretary of State has said that they are doing disciplined budgetary management. Returning to their proposal, the original scope of thought: yes, if you would help us do so, and if more accurate information can be done in this way, then, I think this is very important, and it would therefore be necessary to present the consequences, an impact assessment that would show us and show us that otherwise it is okay. Just because I want to support this, I say that from now on it is worth renaming the salad law to a trap law, just because of what my fellow Member mentioned, that what they give with one hand is being taken away with the other. [[10.10]] It is either in the form of a tax, or, as I will say here, a few examples, of the fact that the rights of citizens are being undermined, I can say that our freedom is being undermined. In this sense, it is in vain to mention which social groups they wish to favour right now, at this moment, but in what way and at what cost they do so, and then I would like to put some thoughts about this on the table. So, in this trap law, there is more that could be promising or good in this regard, but it would be necessary to have an impact assessment that will help you to be more precise. On the other hand, on the other hand, in the same law, in order to mention the former section on freedoms, the changes to the independence of the National Atomic Energy Office have been accepted and, inter alia, to regulate nuclear safety requirements and related official activities of nuclear installations and radioactive waste storage facilities in a regulation. At the same time, the new NER leader was appointed for nine years. Well, Mr. Secretary of State, the blind can see that, while on one side they are doing nothing but trying to buy a vote out of debt in a panic situation, on the other hand, they are trying to buy a vote out of debt, and on the other hand, they are themselves, and they are loyal to the government, but rather I say that they are cementing officials loyal to Fidesz. But to ensure that there is no misunderstanding as to what I was thinking, Mr Secretary of State, I have in my hand the October Statement of the Ministry of Finance on the benefits which you and my pro-government fellow Members are pleased to mention. How is all this financed, so not only when, but from what are they financed? This is also a question that can be asked. I quote you: the foreign exchange debt of the Central Budget: the growth is mainly driven by three foreign exchange bonds issued in September. It consists of USD 2,225 billion with a duration of 10 years; USD 2 billion with a maturity of 30 years; and EUR 1 billion with a maturity of 7 years. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So you, the people who yelled so much during the process for purely political reasons about the causes and consequences of foreign exchange debt and why it should not happen; and you said that you should never do it again, and then after two or three years these borrowings started leaking back, and now you've done this amount in a month. Well, Mr. Secretary, it seems to me that you are trapped in the trap that something must be done very quickly, there is no other option, so that is what you have done. It's exactly the same as they left the Feds trapped, because then the families were started, dragged into this trap, and then, by the way, they pretended that you had nothing to do with it. So from this point of view, I think they're pursuing the policy that you've condemned... and I'm not talking about whether it's good or not, but about your Pharisee attitude, that one day they're talking about it, and the next day they're doing something else. [[Z. Carpathian intervention by Daniel:]] We could list the areas where all this will happen, and I regret that we will always go to the budget to confront you. I would certainly ask you to bear the consequences of this, or to bear the consequences, since you are here as a representative of the government. In this respect, I would like to mention to you another such trap law or the trap existing in the law, because the proposed regulation fits in with the general trend, as I have just mentioned, that administrative regulatory competences are being withdrawn from a government with a parliamentary mandate. And now let's mention the National Media and Infocommunications Authority here, I just mentioned one thing: the NMHH, in which the government raised its hand that it had nothing to do with its budget, compared to which enthusiastic representatives submitted a budget grant of HUF 180 billion. I will also add the right of freedom, because they give it to them, and on the other hand, freedom of the press has been reduced, because this office, its apparatus, political leadership and all of its employees, who are there, are actively involved in reducing the freedom of the press, and they are doing everything in their power to ensure that only those information gets to the majority of people, although in this respect I think people are trying to keep an open eye, and it seems that they are trying to shut down many people in a bubble that is only good for what you are doing, even by this amendment, that the media authority is being given yet more and more rights, while they are using an awful lot of money exclusively for communication, billboards, and in this context, as I have said, people are being held in misconception, and state-fake news production workshops are being maintained, well, I think that this is unacceptable. So many of us, many of us, are being forced into the trap of trying to do something on one side that is intended to improve, for example, the functioning of the system supporting the implementation of the central budget, while at the same time putting forward unacceptable legislative amendments. In this way, this trap law creates a situation where we have to think about it from the opposition side. I am confident that the amendments tabled will provide an opportunity to eliminate such a nature, or that the government itself will decide not to put society or parliament in such a situation, but to eliminate them in the next period, and, accordingly, after the amendments, it can be decided that this law can be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-12-01-23	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, who indicated that he wished to live in the house rules 36. The right to speak as provided for in paragraph 11 of Section 1. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2021-12-01-24	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I wanted to speak in the general debate on the draft law amending certain laws on financial and economic matters because the amendment proposal concerns at several points digitalisation in administrative processes and the renewal of IT systems for the use of public funds. On this subject, the State Audit Office has carried out and is carrying out a number of analyses and audits over the past period, in respect of which I believe it is important to provide Parliament with all relevant and useful information, thereby supporting the implementation of the general debate on the bill. I would like to point out that these analyses and reports are also public, and can be found on the SAO's website, and we will always draw your attention to the possibility of being informed about this. Our experience shows that the introduction of digital solutions can have positive consequences for the activities of public funds organisations, including budgetary bodies. In addition, the recent analysis by the Court of Auditors entitled "The State Registers and the Electronic Service" highlighted the need to ensure the regulated and appropriate collection, management and use of the data contained in the public registers. [[10.20]] The Hungarian Treasury, as a central institution of the central sub-sector of public finances, has a significant impact on the whole process of the budget due to the weight of its financial and asset management activities and tasks, including maintaining balance, the proper use of public funds, the reliability of public finances' reporting data, but also on the quality of government asset management and transparency of public finance management. Consequently, the introduction and proper operation of the system supporting the implementation of the central budget will create a new overall environment for the financing of the central budget for almost all public finance entities, institutions and actors belonging to the central government sub-schemes. In the last year and a half, as we can see, the development of the government sector has not stopped, but has been accelerated by the Hungarian state. I think this is what this amendment to the legislation expresses, which will provide further details of the legal framework for these conditions. Dear House, The good functioning of the public finance accounting system has a fundamental role to play in enabling governments and, more broadly, economic, social actors to make their decisions on the basis of real and credible information, helping to analyse economic and social processes and to explore contexts. The system supporting the implementation of the central budget may contribute to the basis for decision-making on the public financial system and to the basis of budgetary planning. At the same time, I note that it is necessary to ensure the requirements laid down in the Law on the Electronic Safety of Public and Local Government Bodies for data and information processed in electronic information systems, but not sufficient for the planned IT system. The system supporting the implementation of the central budget should be accompanied by an appropriate, conscious data management to achieve its full positive benefits. As the aim of the bill is, it is essential to adapt to the ever-changing economic processes in order to ensure the continued efficient and competitive functioning of the economy in order to promote the protection of the economy, which is still functioning and is constantly developing, following the relaunch of the domestic economy. The Treasury shall be responsible for the provision of money, the solvency of the institutions belonging to the central subsystem, and for the execution and accountability of their cash flow under the public budget. I would now like to highlight some of the factors that I particularly recommend to your attention, which summarise or define change. One is the implementation of the budget and the separation of banking system functions. This is a tremendously important innovation, and it creates a rethink of the whole process that has been going on in the Treasury; and the introduction of a new treasury account management system can lead to different human resources needs, but this needs to be prepared. It also opens new routes for the state and the institutions of the State by providing an opportunity for net accounting of budget lines, which can bring significant benefits and can also have a positive impact on the development of the financing of budget expenditure. Thus, the operation of a consolidated financial system can be supported by this legal and then technical and human day-to-day renewable treasury system opening new roads. According to the plan of use envisaged in the bill, reporting obligations can contribute to better planning of public finances, maintaining financial balance and strengthening management responsibilities at the level of organisations. I would also like to point out to another historical change that the proposed amendment includes the obligation to provide regular data on claims, commitments and other payment obligations for budgetary bodies falling within the central sub-scheme of public finances. If the provision of data will operate in accordance with the planned specifications, it may be ensured that the budgetary bodies plan ahead, regularly record their commitments and monitor their own records. Instead of spending a kind of money, managers who are not, for example, finance managers also have access to management information, so they have to see a synthesized picture every day to base their own institution's decisions. So I could say that there is an informational background to the strengthening of farming. The central register of commitments can contribute to the transparency of real management processes, sound management decisions, accountability by the managing body, so that new opportunities are opened not only to the institutions but also to its supervisory system. The Court of Auditors shall regularly monitor the recording and implementation of commitments in respect of the central budget bodies of the general government subsystem. So this will be an answer to a known problem, but allow me to explain only in terms of our experience in 2020. A detailed record of commitments or other payment obligations was not held by 56 percent of the audited budgetary bodies, which could have resulted in and resulted in, where appropriate, an unfunded obligation in their management, thus the management of public funds remained uncontrolled accordingly. The large non-registration of commitments also illustrates the importance of the proposal for an amendment to commitments, and we would therefore argue in any way for the creation of legislation, since overall they improve accountability and transparency and quality decision-making conditions for management systems by these changes, these improvements, this legislative environment. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The legislative proposals before us therefore provide for responsible management at organizational level, the possibility of putting quality public money and the management of the entire central budget on a new footing. The IT-based support of a quality government institutional financial management and management system ensures significant progress towards a competitive state, a competitive, sustainable budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-01-25	Thank you, Mr. President. I now address Mr. Z. Kárpa to Congressman Daniel, the representative of Jobbik. You have the floor.
u2021-12-01-26	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to ask you not to misunderstand my words, but during your speeches I felt that the debate on this item was a little therapeutic, as if we were trying to reassure each other that the big picture is very positive, that the budgetary processes are under control, but I will take this opportunity while Mr President is here, with one important moment I am trying to take out the counter-example of this. If you look at the situation of the pension fund, you will see that the level of payments will increase by HUF 350 billion and an additional HUF 350 billion will be expected in the deficit area in the coming year. So we're seeing a 700 billion-dollar funding hole in the pension system where unsustainableness screams. The Government of Hungary has priced and accepted what the Hungarian National Bank has predicted for ten years now that the Hungarian pension system will become unsustainable, and I can see the interest surrounding it myself, and the fact is that you have priced it that every year the pension fund must now be replaced. [[10.30]] This will be done for a while by the central budget, but for demographic reasons, where the situation is getting worse, the number of people who contribute measurable contributions will be reduced, and the number of beneficiaries will increase, it is clear that this gap of 700 billion will reach the size of 1000 billion and then 2000 billion. Obviously, there is a ceiling, which can be achieved in terms of the level of pension payments, perhaps not to reach the level of 2000 billion, but it is certainly a continuous, very strong budgetary burden that we have ahead of us. There's a solution to that, by the way. Obviously, it is not about doubling all pensions overnight and not creating the other leg, it would not be a sustainable condition. But the fact is that if we achieve a steady increase in wages by slowly increasing the wage level at the level tolerated by the permissible productivity level, thus increasing the percentage of pension contributions or the income of the socho continuously, then we can see that pension increases would also be possible, not just within the system. But what we see is that these long-term and sustainability thoughts seem to be completely absent from you. I also remember the tax disputes 2010-11, where we were able to have a meaningful dialogue on the MNB's forecasts, and the MNB had already indicated that this would be the case with the pension system, which has now occurred. You can, of course, paint this picture beautiful. I feel a little bit like when we are discussing inflation levels, and Viktor Orbán is used to say that his two left-handed hands are not very nice, so Mihály Varga and György Matolcsy both say in other light that this level of inflation can actually be tolerated, in other countries it is very high, even in the US, but they forget that if they did not work with the statistics they did in Hungary, it would be much worse. Secretary of State, explain to me how the Hifi Tower, capable of playing the CD, goes into the KSH inflation statistics. Tell me, Mr. Secretary, how many people buy such equipment every year in Hungary. We can see that if we make fun of this statistics with elements that are not normally consumed by Hungarian citizens, and therefore the goods do not explode, then the inflation rate will be quite different than if I count on the typical retired consumer basket than if, unfortunately, the number of people who are raising two children is getting rarer and more frequent than the family's consumer basket. So what we see is that reality is a very different picture from the point of view of inflation. It was right from the mouth of my fellow opposition Members that, in addition to the tax distribution, they did not tell the other foot how much the 27 per cent world record VAT had taken out of the pockets of the Hungarian people, that, where appropriate, the freezing of the family allowance in a ten-year perspective, we can now say that it has pulled a thousand billion-dollar order out of the pockets of the families. There are nuances, we would double this on a family card, which would only buy children's education and basic food, without other conditions, but it certainly cannot remain this neoliberal cruelty, because it is on the part of the government. It is selective among social groups and does not bring substantial facilitations for children raised in the most difficult ranks, while it does so much for the more fortunate members of society. Another of these problem areas is the bonding to the clot that we're talking about today. Let's get this straight. We're happy for the raise. I am also pleased with the desire to reduce smoking by young people. So I commend what I think is good. But in terms of fixing a clot, you're basically tied to a wage increase to maintain a relationship. We have tried to connect to nuggets in a variety of forms, starting with higher education, through study contracts, in active labour market jobs, everywhere, and we see that the impact of this is, let us be polite, braked-foamed, Secretary of State. The fact is that when there was no emergency caused by a coronal virus, they left Hungary with a mass, typically because of a living obligation, hundreds of thousands of people who left the country under your government. You will say that other countries in Central and Eastern Europe have also done so. This is about the same as when Minister of State Tállai has just said that forint weakening is not a Hungarian feature. Obviously, he did not mean the Dutch forint, and obviously he meant the weakening of the national currency, and he did not say so, but this attitude to be small is infinitely irritating to me, to you, my fellow Member Nacsa. When there is a controllable but bad economic process, you are not talking about how to solve this, how to pull yourself out of this problem, but you point out to the countries of the region that the currency has deteriorated there, too; well, the government doesn't have an exchange rate goal, we're small, we're weak, we can't do anything about it; well, the big financial uncles and the stock exchanges will decide how much the exchange rate is going to be abroad and on the stock market, and then there's nothing to do. That is not true, fellow Members. The big thing is that both Matolcsy and Mihály Varga would have a serious impact on the exchange rate of the forint, for example, but in the key areas where we could have intervened, they ruined these steps, which is why we are here where we are. But it is very important to say about the bonding to the clot that eight or ten years is the term for binding to the clot, almost all the same, because this system is not working. Under very negative demographic conditions and very strange Hungarian labour market processes, young people cannot be forced to stay on a career or at home. It can be motivated, by lighting a career that would be part of, say, a housing program, which we have discussed a lot about so that a Hungarian youth spends the first 15 years of the labour market not as a bank loaner, but, where appropriate, access to affordable housing with a reasonable career. Obviously, this includes not only the regulation of the rental market, but also, where appropriate, the setting-up or extension of the colleges. But let me give you one more example of how to bind to a clot. The Parental Voice is currently circling all the Members of Parliament, obviously you have received your letter, and regardless of whether we sympathize or not with this organization, they are here to expose you to the kindergarten teachers. After all, when they saw a mass drop in this area, there were very few workers, they didn't do, let's say, one-half their wages, or, where appropriate, tied to performance multipliers, but instead made a government decree in 2020, according to which it was only between 8:00 and 12:00 that it was a requirement and an obligation for a graduate teacher to take care of children. So the exit was maintained, the wage level was not substantially touched, and the few remaining workers on the track were put on an extra charge, a bonus charge, practically for the same money, or at least for this load they did not receive a separate allowance. This is how a market problem and, by the way, a demographic problem should be addressed, while we see that hundreds of thousands of people are forced to work abroad. In Hungary, the percentage of inactive people, to be more precise: even the proportion of registered job seekers means a crowd of hundreds of thousands of people, while more than 40 percent of job seekers are no longer receiving any benefits in your system, but they are not doing what they want to do to help them get what they want, but they are bringing in migrant workers from abroad. According to a new government decree, from Indonesia to the Maldives, you can now come from anywhere, you do this organizedly to the pronouncements of multi-company companies, but you are not trying to help those who, as inactive in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, could not get normal vocational training in a village, but would like to work and want a profession. They don't help anyone who, say, can't break out of Dunaújváros, even though he might choose a kindergarten teacher career, but he just needs help. You do not offer these people the opportunity, the help hand, mass organizing and bringing the foreign workforce to Hungary. Amazing duality! This is like the way you've behaved on the front of migration, my fellow Member Nacsa. You always say out loud that migration is bad, while organizing it, selling settlement bonds to rich migrants, and what Viktor Orbán demanded before the UN in 2015, my fellow Members: a global quota. This is your policy: absolutely bilucent, dual communication, they say something else at home, they say something else abroad. Indeed, if not so, one of the Members will stand up and tell them that Viktor Orbán did not demand a world quota before the UN. If this works, we'll follow you. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-12-01-27	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Secretary of State Banai.
u2021-12-01-28	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Allow me to respond in two parts to what has been said in this debate. First, I would like to talk about the parts that concern the specific provision of the bill before you, and then I would like to briefly reflect on the points raised in the debate on the bill, but not as an opinion on the provisions contained in the bill. [[10.40]] What has been drawn up in relation to the specific provisions of the bill before you, first of all, concerns me, too, the budget implementation support system that you mentioned first by the speakers. I agree that this may be the most serious element of the bill, and I thank you very much for hearing opinions and support from both the pro-government benches and the opposition benches and from President Domokos, the SAO. If I may, I would say very briefly that if President Domokos mentioned changes on a historical scale, then, in my opinion, we are also talking about the introduction of an extremely important IT system, which, after several years of preparation, can start operating from January 2022 and is fully operational from January 2023. What's this system about? This is about keeping up-to-date information on the commitments of each organisation in the central budget. Simply put, in the government, for example, in the Ministry of Finance, we are up-to-date about who has concluded a contract with the government's governing bodies, what kind of payments will result from these contracts, or what payments will be made outside of contracts, as a result of other legal relationships. This is important in supporting government decision-making, isn't it? It will be an up-to-date database. I would add that we are also creating a data analysis system and, of course, it helps us to better plan the state's funding. If the expenditure to be paid by the State can be specified more precisely, we can better adjust the financing operations to this, and, in other words, the financing of public debt can also be cheaper as a result of this development. I would also add that we are talking about this IT system in front of you, but of course we see that we also have a task in other areas. If I may mention the Treasury, we want to introduce a new account management system, which will be able to transfer immediately, and will be able to strengthen the nature of the state's service provider by using more efficient methods, using the latest technologies. All the budgetary bodies, organisations that keep their accounts at the Treasury, will experience a better quality of service. In the second point, I would like to mention the legislation on deputy officers who are later than the National Tax and Customs Office. Here we have already heard criticisms in addition to supporting opinions, several have used the term "clutter-bound." On the one hand, I would like to stress that the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian budget are in a position to make a significant increase in the allowance, which is what this proposal is about, which, by the way, provides, during the study period, benefits for persons employed later in the National Tax and Customs Office, which, for example, can be achieved in the area of law enforcement, according to the Parliament's previous decision. As a criticism, it was said that it was proportionate to increase benefits by increasing the mandatory time spent. Assistant officers' allowances may increase to 7-8 times when the draft is adopted. So the increase in the current allowance is between 700 and 800 percent. The increase in the mandatory time spent at NAV is 25 percent. So the 700-800 percent increase in benefits should be compared to the mandatory comparison of work at NAV from 8 to 10 years. Allow me to talk about this increase in benefits. In our view, the candidate would be entitled to a salary consisting, on the one hand, of basic salary and, on the other hand, of a tuition fee, and, on the thirdly, of an additional salary. The amount of basic salary shall be at least the guaranteed minimum wage. We all know that next year the guaranteed minimum wage will increase by nearly 20 percent. This is an element in the allowance of deputy officers, I repeat, with the tuition fee and the allowance. In addition, the candidate officer shall be entitled to host colleges, free food, clothing, support and other social benefits. So I ask the Honourable Parliament that when we talk about bonding with a clot and we talk about serving the NAV for 10 years instead of 8 years, we compare this with the additional benefit that the draft contains and that the government intends to provide to the deputy officers. The third element that was discussed in the debate is the amendment of the motion picture law. Here our aim is to give further support to the up-to-date dynamically expanding Hungarian film production. Thank God, you may also meet every day with productions that are realized in Hungary, and this dynamic is therefore served by the motion to abolish the limit of HUF 12 million, up to which the film production can account for the wages of the employees in the course of film production activities. So at present there is a limit of HUF 12 million, up to HUF 12 million, the production of the film can count the amount as a cost. Not above this, above which there may be a lower level of cost accounting. We'd like to remove this barrier. We would encourage more domestic people to be employed. Persons with foreign jurisdiction have a limit of 3 million, which is not changed by the proposal. Why did the catalog come up? That's because most of the employees were paying kata. But what happened to the kata? What happened to the Kata, here is Secretary of State Izer, who knows much more deeply, but let me tell you now: according to the statistics available, the cata not only lived businesses, but there were those who abused, which means that many people in previous normal employment have gone into catalysing businesses. It was used as a loophole by companies and individuals to become a catalysm instead of a normal employment. Therefore, the change was about the fact that the employer, the undertaking giving the given order, could employ a certain amount of work. You can also employ me, you just have to pay a higher tax. There is no change in the taxation of the cut itself. So, please, when we talk about changing the cat, let's look at the background of the change and the statistics. I repeat: it is abusive, if you will, to appear a loophole, which I believe is in the interest of all of us, the elimination of tax evasion is in our best interests. With this, if you will allow me, I will turn to the comments which were not about the specific provisions of the bill before you, but which were said in the debate. If I am talking about tax evasion, I would like to respond to the criticism expressed by Mrs Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi about the disciplined budget management. I repeat, in addition to the fact that I believe that we can achieve disciplined fiscal management if we are able to bring everyone to fair taxation through the bleaching measures for this purpose; closing the loopholes is for this purpose, but I think that this is the overall purpose of the IT system that we have talked about, and that is the objective of the economic policy that the government has conducted. If you are questioning disciplined budget management, I highly recommend that we look at the Eurostat databases that have often been mentioned. Madam Congresswoman, let me say, in fact, that there is a political community whose time, between 2002 and 2010, there has not been a single year, when the Hungarian government debt-to-GDP ratio would not have increased, even during the crisis and before the crisis. We all know that, and we also know that, on the basis of these figures, there has not been a single year between 2011 and 2019 when the Hungarian government debt-to-GDP ratio would not have decreased. We've reached levels above 80 percent to about 65.5 percent, haven't we? [[10.50]] This is precisely the past that made it possible for the government to give a completely opposite response to the crisis, as it did in 2008-09, as it was forced to give, because we know that there was no financing opportunities to reduce wages, nor to reduce pensions. Now this classic, if you like, Keynes or textbook recipe response has been a key element in increasing the budget deficit through tax reductions and extra expenditure. This is what we have seen in many countries of Europe, and this is what we have seen in Hungary. But this temporary deficit and debt increase was made precisely to support the real economy. That is precisely why we have done so that, in contrast to the 2009 crisis, unemployment does not rise to 11 percent. We see that these responses were fundamentally successful, because today the performance of the Hungarian economy exceeds the pre-crisis level, I stress that this is not the case in a large part of Europe's countries, and as a result, we were able to maintain the level of employment at historical height. I hope that, thanks to this real economic performance, we will also be able to reduce the deficit in the following areas. I fully agree with the Congresswoman that the principle of sound budgetary management cannot be waived. In view of the draft budget law of 2022, the Honourable Parliament saw that in 2023 we calculated a deficit of 3.9 percent, with a deficit of 3 percent in 2024 and a deficit of 2 percent in 2025. A lot of unforeseen circumstances can happen. I am thinking of the epidemic, the disruption of supply chains or the increase in energy prices, but still the government's intention is clear. And I hope that if we can meet these deficit levels, our debt ratio will decrease again. Congressman László Varju was talking about debt, debt financing. He mentioned the issue of foreign exchange bonds, which, in fact, I can say, is perhaps the most successful issue of foreign currency bonds in the last 30 years. Why do I dare say that? Because €4.5 billion of funding was involved at a long maturity, with an average financing cost of less than 1 per cent. The Member objected to why foreign exchange bonds were issued, since the government's aim was to reduce the foreign exchange debt ratio, and I replied to the Member. After 2010, the government set out the aim of reducing the debt ratio on the one hand; I note that there is an obligation imposed by the Fundamental Law, so there is a strict rule from 2011, which was not previously part of the Hungarian legal order, and that, within the reduction of the debt ratio, the foreign exchange debt ratio will be reduced. It was not about a foreign exchange debt, but a reduction in the foreign exchange debt ratio. There are cases, there are opportunities, there are situations where it is worthwhile to use foreign exchange financing. The key, I repeat, is to reduce overall the ratio. But in 2010, this ratio was over 50 percent, now it's around 20 percent. Our goal is to achieve a moderate level in the longer term. There may be fluctuations, of course, that from one moment to the next there is a slight increase in the foreign exchange debt ratio; such changes may be possible in the near future, but the long-term trend, the long-term process, is a reduction in the foreign exchange debt ratio. And this, I repeat, has been accomplished for the past ten years. I cannot agree with Mr President's suggestion that families have been pushed into foreign exchange lending by the government. I must say to the Member, Mr President, that there was such a thing, but this is the situation before 2010. If I remember correctly, 70 percent of the Hungarian population's debt and loans were foreign exchange in 2010. That's under 1 percent today. Only those who have an income in foreign currency may take credit in foreign currency. So, in this respect, neither the proposal before you necessarily contains any provisions on the credit of families for foreign exchange, nor does the government have any intention of dealing with the credit of families for foreign exchange. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély said that the state's operating costs are increasing, state bureaucracy is increasing. I would like to say, in fact, that the number of people employed in the public sector has not increased and that if they see an increase in expenditure, they are associated with an increase in wages. In the state bureaucracy and public sector, which is much mentioned, there is a system of full government administration, including the number and wages of the Members of the Honourable Parliament. I think this is a good example: the number of Members has decreased, their wages, thank God, have increased, because if, according to the law, wages in the national economy are increasing, then benefits are also increasing, so we can see in the example of Parliament what changes have been made in numbers and wages. As far as family support is concerned, the congresswoman said that the government took me away from the families, which is not factually true. Each draft budget law shows how family support changes year after year. I agree, of course, with the statement of the congresswoman, that not every aspect of family support changes, if you like, the amount increases from year to year, the family allowance was mentioned by the congresswoman, but you were the one who raised the family tax benefits, which were not before 2010, and after 2010, it is part of the family support system. We could talk about housing support, we could talk about the tax relief of the first married people, a number of elements that, however, if we look at it together, we can see that there has been a significant increase not only compared to 2010, but also in the European context, the amount of family support that the government, the budget, has for families, is very high. I am trying to make a brief transition to the suggestion of Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, who spoke about the pension system, and this question is related to family support because the Member said that the pension system is unsustainable, that the pension fund must be supplemented by the budget. I may not exactly quote the Member, but his message was that the pension fund should be complemented by the budget and could be unsustainable in the longer term. Just as family support, as the Member knows, serves the purpose of changing the staff. Corf development is one of the pillars of the long-term sustainability of the pension system. The problem is, Congressman, let's look at where we started again. And I ask the congressman not only to look at the absolute numbers, the other half of the fertility rate, but where we started; it was 1.1, wasn't it? So the Member knows precisely that there is a political community under whose governance this fertility rate has gone downhill. After 2010, this fertility rate went up. I absolutely agree, Mr President, that we are still a long way from 2.1, but, I repeat, the direction is encouraging and I agree with the Member that this alone is not enough to stop the loss of population. But this is an important element of the long-term sustainability of the pension system. Another element is employment development. Here, thank God, we can talk about positive numbers overall. The third element is wage developments, and I agree with the Member. Again, let us look at the statistics: in Hungary, wages have increased significantly over the past period, and I would add that gross average earnings have increased by more than 9 percent in 2020, during the crisis, so real wages have increased by more than 6 percent, and the total wage mass has increased in the economy, which has been paid. So I think that there has been a positive change in the items determining the sustainability of the pension system in the longer term, but I repeat that I agree with the Member that further positive changes in demography are still needed in order not to reduce the population. Last thought in this respect: I believe that overall, we should not look at the sustainability of certain sub-schemes of public finances, but at the sustainability of the budget as a whole. The reduction of the social contribution tax, which is the revenue of the pension fund, is therefore, in our view overall, conducive to the sustainability of public finances, as it supports growth, supports wage growth and thus supports the sustainability of public finances as a whole. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Finally, on inflation, let me say two words, as several people have mentioned this, and I repeat, although the bill does not deal with inflation, I have to say factually that, on the one hand, higher inflation has appeared throughout the world as one of the elements of the post-crisis recovery of the economy. [[11.00]] The United States has reached a peak of more than 30 years, and I repeat, outside the United States, we see relatively high inflation figures in many countries of Europe and the world. In Europe and Hungary inflation is calculated on the basis of Eurostat's general rule system and guidance. So when Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát says that the methodology for compiling Hungarian inflation figures is questionable, I ask Mr. Member to put the criticism not for the Hungarian professional ones, but for Eurostat, because I repeat it: inflation will be determined according to a uniform methodology. There may be some elements that are no longer appropriate to be taken into account. Moreover, this system is constantly changing according to Eurostat rules. I have no doubt that it is possible to change this methodology, but I repeat, the KSH, the Central Statistical Office, has no sovereign power to calculate inflation. More importantly, let's look at how wages increase in addition to inflation. I can tell you that last year, this year and we hope that wages will increase again next year. This wage increase will go beyond inflation and I hope that, as a result, the income of families will continue to increase substantially in 2022, the real value of the actions will increase at the level of the national economy as a whole. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-01-29	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the tax measures needed in connection with the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in 2022, as well as on the presentation of certain other measures until closure. The government referral is T/17668. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Norbert Izer, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-12-01-30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, On 23 November 2021, the Government submitted the tax measures necessary for the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in 2022, as well as for certain other measures T/1766. In particular, it contains the tax measures and other measures necessary to comply with the provisions of the wage agreement signed on 15 November 2021. In addition, the proposal doubles the amount of post-baby bond state aid. The draft therefore forms an integral part of the government's tax policy, one of the focal points of which remains the reduction of labour taxes. The process started in 2016, as the long-term agreement concluded at the Competition and Government Permanent Consultation Forum, the VKF Forum on 24 November 2016 fixed the scheduled reduction of the social contribution tax for several years. On the basis of the agreement, the rate of the social contribution tax will be reduced four times in total after 2019. Two reductions have already been made from 1 July 2019 and from 1 July 2020 respectively, and the third reduction under the rules already adopted would take place from 1 July 2022 in the form of the elimination of the one and a half percent vocational training contribution and the reduction of the social contribution tax by half a percentage point to 15 per cent. These changes were incorporated into Parliament law in the summer. According to the Government's intentions, the outstanding performance of the Hungarian economy over the past period is the basis for further increase in workers' wages. Therefore, on 15 November 2021, the Government, as is known, agreed with stakeholders to increase the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage as of 1 January 2022. According to the agreement, the minimum amount of the basic wage for the full-time employee will be HUF 200 thousand per month, and the guaranteed minimum wage for the employee in a job requiring at least secondary education or secondary education will be HUF 260 thousand per month when full-time is completed. In order to make the increase in wages possible for entrepreneurs, the agreement is part of a significant tax reduction commitment from the government. In this context, the reduction of employers' public burdens by more than 20 per cent by 4 percentage points compared to the rules currently in force from 1 January 2022, the reduction in small business tax from 11 per cent to 10 per cent from 1 January 2022, and the maintenance of local industrialisation tax rules for small and medium-sized enterprises in 2021 in 2022. The bill before you contains details of this commitment. Let's look at these in a little bit more detail. The rate of the social contribution tax shall be set at 13% from 1 January 2022. In addition, the payment obligation for a vocational training contribution of one and a half percent will cease from 1 January and the associated benefit will be applied from 1 January from the social contribution tax. The third and fourth stages of the tax reduction set out in the VKF agreement are thus finally implemented in one step, and the government fully fulfils its commitment to the agreement by fighting the economic downturn caused by the coronal virus epidemic. In line with the reduction in the rate of the social contribution tax, the bill also proposes to amend other related tax rules. On the basis of the proposal, the simplified public burden-sharing contribution to be paid by paying agents will be reduced to 13 per cent, in short: echo. There is a growing supply fund for entrepreneurs using taxation according to the item tax of small-tax entrepreneurs; the full-time taxpayers paying HUF 50,000 monthly taxes will be entitled to cash social security and unemployment benefits, instead of HUF 50,000, instead of HUF 75,000. In parallel with the reduction of the rate of the social contribution tax, as a quasi-automaticism, the multiplier applicable to the determination of income subject to personal income tax is changed to 89 per cent, which is to be used when the individual is himself obliged to pay the social contribution tax and cannot be counted as a cost or is not reimbursed to him. As a result of these measures, the employer's public burden will be reduced by 4 percentage points from 1 January 2022, leaving some HUF 600 billion to the economic operators. Small business tax also triggers corporate tax and social contribution tax for SMEs. Thus, as in previous years, the reduction in social contribution tax by 4 percentage points is reduced by 1 percentage point, leaving HUF 10 billion for small businesses. One of the guiding principles of government tax policy is the recognition of the specific situation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the common burden-sharing system, i.e. in the tax system. It is clear to the government that smaller businesses are more vulnerable in particular in the light of the experience of the economic crisis caused by the epidemic and, compared to large companies, they are much more exposed to the global economic shock and should therefore be given priority in the management of the rising minimum wage. In this way, in the local business tax, SMEs will still be able to apply the rules applicable this year in 2022, which saves the majority of Hungarian-owned SMEs about HUF 150 billion in taxes. In the autumn of 2020, the Government stated in the Emergency Regulation that for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises with a net turnover or balance sheet total of up to HUF 4 billion, the business tax rate should not exceed 1 per cent in the tax year ending in 2021. The effect of the reduction was also reflected in the tax advances to be paid in 2021, as only half of the declared business tax advance to be paid was to be paid this year. The proposed legislation, now incorporated into the local tax law, continues the rules on reduced 1 percent business tax rate and halved tax advance payment for the tax year ending in 2022. It does this from the foregoing considerations that small players in the SME sector recover from the crisis in many cases is a time-consuming, prolonged process, and may therefore require assistance not only in one but also in two tax years. [[11.10]] This is only confirmed by the fact that the increase in wage costs caused by the minimum wage increase also needs to be managed for SMEs, which is more challenging than for a large company. The business tax measure also provides effective assistance to the SME business community, which is loss-making, since the business tax base is based not on profit, but on a much wider projection basis, and the group of taxpayers is much wider. There is no more evidence of this than the fact that the reduced rate affects some 700 000 entrepreneurs or businesses positively, leaving approximately HUF 150 billion to the SMEs concerned, as I have already mentioned. However, the preferential business tax rate constitutes State aid within the meaning of EU rules and therefore the bill contains detailed rules on the compatibility of aid with EU standards. Without fully presenting the provisions of the bill in this regard, I would point out that the regulation offers beneficiaries two options in relation to the title of the aid. On the one hand, a de minimis aid or transitional aid may be used for the granting of aid under a reduced rate. The former could be considered for micro-enterprises and the latter should be chosen for SMEs receiving larger or more grants. In the latter case, a statement shall be made by 25 February 2022 that the user is entitled to receive the transitional aid. Dear House, Although the bill is aimed primarily at improving the tax position of businesses, especially SMEs, the government does not forget the local tax burden on citizens. In this economic situation, which is currently stabilizing, but which is still flexible and risk-bearing, it is not fortunate to increase the tax burden on individuals in the fourth wave of the pandemic. Therefore, in 2022, the rule that local authorities should not increase the rate of local taxes, municipal taxes, the existing benefits, exemptions should not be withdrawn, reduced, nor introduced any new local tax or municipal tax in 2022. I believe that those opposed to local tax changes under the bill will raise the need to reduce local tax revenue and autonomy of municipalities. In this regard, let me draw attention to the following. On the one hand, it should be assumed that, at least as far as revenue is concerned, the business tax is a crisis-resistant tax, for the very reason that the basis of the projection is wide, and because of commercial and industrial real estate investments, the massive increase in the amount collected under the construction tax also increases significantly, even if the tax rate is unchanged. One of the consequences of the economic expansion significantly above the EU average, as confirmed by our preliminary projections of cash flow revenue data, is that the business tax and local tax revenue for 2021 is expected to be 5-10 percent higher than the revenue for 2020 and we can confidently expect that local tax revenue for 2022 will also be more than in 2021, so that the financial situation of the municipalities is stable and predictable. So let me underline that because of the measure there was no less local tax revenue for the local government sector compared to the previous period. On the other hand, it is also important that in the less-favoured, vulnerable settlements, the loss of revenue, in many cases even the loss of revenue, was replaced by the central budget in 2021. There are also discussions on the need for municipal compensation such as this year in 2022. Thirdly, let us not forget that local taxes are part of the tax system, as are the principles and criteria under which the tax system is shaped by the government. The tax reduction remains at the centre of government tax policy, perhaps more than ever in times of economic crisis. Therefore, it would be dissonant that while central taxes are falling significantly, local burdens are increasing. This would call into question the credibility of tax policy, contradicting what we believe is the reduction of taxes and its dynamic effect on the economy. To sum up, the ideas of the bill on the change of local taxation are integral to government tax reductions, which contribute to economic growth, specifically supporting smaller, more vulnerable taxpayers who are more difficult to prevent shocks. Dear Parliament, In addition to the tax proposal described above, the submitted bill also includes an increase in the state aid for baby bonds. According to the proposal, after starting-account payments to children, state aid may be limited to HUF 12,000 per year instead of HUF 6,000. Those receiving regular child protection support can receive 24 thousand forints per year instead of 12 thousand forints. Increased state aid and the interest rate on baby bonds exceeding 3 percentage points in inflation are truly attractive opportunities for saving for children. The higher support encourages children's relatives to save 120 thousand forints a year instead of the current 60 thousand forints, so until the beneficiary child becomes an adult, more than 4 million forints can be collected together with interest-bearing state support for the start of life. In addition, public support for children who do not have a Start account will double, which could amount to HUF 48 thousand per year. Dear Parliament, The measures proposed for adoption in the bill before you therefore propose a tax reduction of more than HUF 750 billion, which is all aimed at enabling individuals and businesses to benefit from the outstanding results of the Hungarian economy. Thank you for your attention and for your vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-01-31	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-12-01-32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, T/1766 on tax measures on the table of this House in connection with the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in 2022 and on other measures. Legislative bill No 1 of 1 January 2022 sets forward the measure described above and reduces the rate of social contribution tax by another 2 percentage points compared to the current rate by a total of 2,5 percentage points to compensate for the increase in the minimum wage. The rate is thus reduced to 13 per cent from 1 January 2022, with the simultaneous abolition of the 1.5 per cent vocational training contribution. The reduction in the employer's burden thus represents a total reduction of 4 percentage points, 2.5 percentage points of the social contribution tax and 1.5 percentage points of the vocational training contribution. From 1 January 2022, farmers engaged in vocational education and dual training will be entitled to the LXIX of 2021 on the amendment of certain tax laws from the social contribution tax. They could apply a discount according to the rules already adopted by Law No 1. In the context of the reduction in the rate of the social contribution tax, amendments are also necessary in other tax laws, which are the following in particular. The simplified public burden-sharing contribution reduces the rate of paying echo from 15.5 per cent to 13 per cent. In the case of taxable persons who choose to pay a lot of taxes on small and medium-sized enterprises, the basis of the benefits due to the full-time taxpayer will be changed upon payment of the lot tax: if the tax is paid at HUF 50 thousand per month, the supply fund will rise from HUF 102 thousand to HUF 108 thousand and from HUF 170 thousand to HUF 179 thousand for taxable persons who choose to pay a higher lot tax. In addition, CXVII of 1995 on personal income tax Act No 1 contains a rule in the rules for establishing a consolidated tax base that, where an individual is liable to pay a social contribution tax on a given income, assuming that it is not eligible for, or is not reimbursed to, the individual, a reduced share of the income determined in relation to the rate of social contribution tax shall be taken into account as income. This reduction option is also included in the provisions for determining the tax advance. As a result of the reduction in the rate of social contribution tax, the percentage in two of the provisions of the SAY Law is adjusted from 87 per cent to 89 per cent. Finally, from 11 percent to 10 percent, the small company tax rate decreases. [[11.20]] Dear House, It is important to note that the minimum wage increased from HUF 73 500 in 2010 to 200,000 next year, with an annual average increase of almost 9 percent. For the guaranteed minimum wage, the process started from HUF 89 500 in 2010, with an annual increase of 9.3 per cent for HUF 260 thousand in 2022. Compared to 2021, the minimum wage will increase by 19.5 percent next year and the guaranteed minimum wage by 18.7 percent. The total rate of increase since 2010 is 172 per cent for the minimum wage and 190.5 per cent for the guaranteed minimum wage. Individual social benefits, including ged, children and various family benefits, are linked to the minimum wage, so they will also increase. People under the age of 25 will be exempt from personal income tax, and families with children will be reimbursed this year's payment. It is important to note that with the adoption of the bill, thanks to the government's measures, from January there will be more minimum wage than the average wage under the left-wing government in 2010. Dear Parliament, From 1 January 2022, the public burden of work will be reduced by another 4 percentage points. While in 2009, 33.5 percent of businesses were taxed again, 33.5 percent, less than half next year, only 13 percent. The 1.5 percent vocational training contribution will then be abolished and the social contribution tax payable by enterprises will be reduced by 2.5 percentage points. On the one hand, the change will leave an amount of around HUF 600 billion to the stakeholders; on the other hand, the employment of the labour force will become cheaper, making it easier for companies to hire employees; and, on the third, a new separate type of public burden will be removed. With the end of the VET contribution, the Hungarian business world will be freed from a complex administrative obligation, so that companies carrying out vocational education and dual training can apply the benefit from the social contribution tax in the same way as it has so far. As of 1 January, not only the rate of the social contribution tax will be reduced, but also the simplified public contribution, the rules of the echo will be more favourable, since the Echo charged to the paying agent will be reduced from 15.5 per cent to 13 per cent. The draft extends the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises in the local business tax, so if the Parliament votes, the lower tax rate of up to 1 per cent will automatically apply to those concerned next year. The measure will save SMEs a total of HUF 150 billion. Next year, businesses, families and the rule of protecting the population will continue to apply the local tax regulation or the municipal tax regulation which sets out a rate increase or a reduction in the tax advantage, and in 2022 will not be possible to introduce a new local tax or municipal tax that has not yet existed. It is proposed that the rate of small company tax will be reduced by another 1 percentage point to 10 percent. The tax reduction is HUF 10 billion for businesses that are already under construction, and the Ministry of Finance estimates that more companies will be able to opt for small business tax next year due to the favourable rules. According to the plans, the amount of state aid for baby bonds will increase to double, from HUF 6,000 to HUF 12,000. Baby bond remains one of the most important investments, and not only because the state supports it by 10% of the amount paid, with a maximum of HUF 12 thousand from 2022, but also because its interest rate is the previous year's inflation plus 3 percentage points. The bill therefore includes the business tax reductions on which the minimum wage and the minimum wage are raised. The government remains in favour of tax cuts because since taxes are reduced, the economy is growing, employment is increasing and wages are rising, and even the tax revenue from the budget is increasing. The economic policy of the left, based on tax increases, has strangled the economy, destroyed businesses and kept wages low. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the bill before us contains provisions that must be supported, since with the adoption of the proposal, new significant tax cuts will help businesses and families. The proposal leaves over HUF 750 billion to taxpayers in 2022. If the Parliament votes, then the government's proposals not only bring great relief to businesses and the population, but also to families with children, so please support the proposal in addition to Fidesz. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-01-33	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-12-01-34	Mr President, Dear House, On the previous agenda, I mentioned that there is a bit of such a therapeutic nature in today's debate: that if someone listens to my Fidesz lead speaker-collaborate, they can rest assured how nicely, how well the processes are going in Hungary and how much easier the lives of the families are. I think I'm trying to nuance this delusion a little bit, or at least light up the other side of the obsession. He talks about the policy of tax cuts to facilitate the situation of Hungary's Government and families with children, of which I would be a huge fan if it were true. Not for the first time, but not for the last time, I am going to talk about how unfair and neoliberally cruel the Government of Hungary is when it talks about families with children, while in the VAT system it is tolerated that children's education articles, a diaper, a bottle of tobacco, have the highest VAT content throughout Europe. [[On the mark of Lőrinc Nacsa:]] It belongs to the agenda, my fellow Member, because you have tried to pour this syrup on this proposal, and it has just been said by the Fidesz leader to protect families with children. And I'm telling you, where diapers and bottles are the most brutally taxed in Europe, something, at least in symbolic space, is not okay. I do not understand you: this year alone, more than 100 billion forints of VAT were drawn into the budget than were planned for this year last year. The fact is that only out of VAT revenue is the 100 billion-dollar scale that, let's say, could be used to reduce the VAT content of child-rearing articles, and I am not even talking about basic food, and my colleague will be speaking about the proposal concerning municipalities later. What I see is that while it's really beautiful rhetoric, and it's heartwarming to hear sentences about the protection of families, and I could be a big supporter of that, in reality, it's not what we're dealing with. Once again, the tax burden of families raising children on purchased articles is the highest in Europe. There would be a budget space to change that, but you have fetishes like that. They are as fetishes as they are, for example, that they only support independent real estate and real estate purchases, but let's say they pay less attention to the rental market. It is the same that they favour the luckier social groups, but the children of the deprived families are clearly not entitled to the VAT content of child protection articles. And we see the same thing when we look at the fact that the minimum wage, often advertised by the Prime Minister, which is now developing after the increase, is enough for what. Where did we start? According to Eurostat statistics a few months ago, the Hungarian gross minimum wage, currently HUF 167 400, is the third lowest among the Member States with minimum wage. There are Member States where there is no declared lower line, but where this is measured, the third lowest is this Hungarian value. And many times here in Parliament, my fellow members of the Government say how much progress is made in this respect compared to 2010. [[11.30]] The problem is that we have examined all the countries in the region, including Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Latvia and the others, and if we look just a little further north, we will find a country where this figure was EUR 220 in 2008, and now EUR 623, and in most countries, or at least the same rate of minimum wage increase, or much higher, there are countries where this gap is three times as large, where this gap is even greater. Obviously, I do not expect you to say that Hungary will reach the Czech level of economic development within a few years, as the latest Hungarian history has missed very serious opportunities, and this ship seems to have left for a certain period of time. I expect you at least to be able to win a wage competition with the countries of the region, which are at about the same level of development, where Hungary can offer a temporary advantage. On the other hand, we see that if we look at the Romanian net minimum wage, it is, unfortunately, now higher than the Hungarian, in an environment where the range of products that can be purchased in our neighbourhood, let us say, is significantly wider than in Hungary, and the price level is lower than here. Compared to this, the net minimum wage there is worth more and can be used better than the Hungarian. It would be very good to answer why countries with a level of development such as us or, where appropriate, underdeveloped countries can keep ahead of us and why Hungarian wages are so humiliatingly low. Of course, there is also a methodological debate here, Mr Secretary of State. These comparisons are very often made in euros, and you must now explain why the Hungarian forint is so amazingly, terribly weak. In the last two years, there has been a period when, from one year to the next, there has undoubtedly been a wage increase in Hungary, but if we have examined this in euro, so in view of the purchasing value of this elsewhere in the European Union, there has been a decrease in euro payments despite the growth in the forint, so you are able to reduce your salaries in a European outlook. They can say that we are Hungarian people, we should buy Hungarian products, we should also get Hungarian iPhone from somewhere, so let's make sure it's only Hungarian articles. Let's play with that thought. I am a big fan of the idea that at least 80% of Hungarian products should be in every shopping centre. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved once in the last decade, but you may realize that even in the case of Hungarian-growing vegetables and fruit, when the farmer continues to grow, what he uses: he is very often dependent on buying foreign machinery, he is dependent on buying foreign plant protection products, he needs foreign sprays. Why do they buy these, Mr. Secretary, for forints or euros? They buy them for euros, at least the distributor is sure to buy them for euros. The fact is that the consciously destroyed HUF exchange rate affects the price of each of these articles, increases these prices towards the Hungarian people, and destroys overall the purchasing power of very, very low salaries. And that is the main problem, that you, through conscious forint weakening, constantly expose all Hungarian citizens to negative effects and destroy their wages. I'm really glad we talked about baby bonds. I think all kinds of increases should be welcomed, but next to the 27 percent VAT and the brutal price increase in basic foods, we are now trying to paint a picture here with a discount of 6,000 forints a year, as if these families were so important. I support this 6,000-forint raise. I would add that a lot of people do not use baby bonds because, until the child is 18 years old, this amount is still inaccessible even in cases where this would be vital for the family. Let me mention two examples. In the case of a life-threatening illness and medical treatment, there is no access to a cumulative and undoubtedly cumulative amount in the baby bond account, which I think is a problem. Obviously, there could be a methodology for this which makes abuse impossible, but if a doctor general puts that stamp on it, it might be up to a child's treatment. There is another situation: this is the acquisition of an independent home. Obviously, if an amount could be made available to settle the child's subsequent housing, it could again be possible to abuse, but at least we could discuss how this could be ruled out, eliminated and made more easily available in these two cases. The number of baby bonds may suddenly increase, and the citizens concerned would be in a very different way to this construction. But back to the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. I do not think that there will be a package that has reduced the burden of employers, and I would not support it in principle; it is always about practical implementation. Here, Mr Secretary of State, in the case of the socho mentioned at the previous agenda, we must say that there is no doubt a huge hole in the pension fund, and you must say that the situation is very uncomfortable because you must stand up here and not only tell us how an ordinary diner will have a pension, because I know that we see this in a similar way, that this is a unprocessed area of Hungarian economic research, and you must answer how the sustainability of the pension system can be guaranteed. I told you on the previous agenda how I think we should do it again for the record. If you promise a double pension increase, you'll make an irresponsible promise if you don't name the source. I think it is only possible for the Hungarian wage level to increase continuously, predictablely, much more than at present, to increase the percentage of these higher wages on the basis of the percentages of the nominal amount paid, which will be included in the pension fund, so that it is possible not only to reschedule within the pension system, but also to raise pensions. This would require a measurable increase in wage levels, but compared to the table for the countries of the region, we see that Hungarian data has not increased at all since 2008, i.e. since the previous major crisis. Some of the countries in the region with a lower level of development than we do, and we do not see the dynamics in the Hungarian economy and in the Hungarian government's attitude at all, which could ensure that wage levels increase in the long term. In the meantime, the pension system has become unsustainable, so we are now talking about a 700 billion-dollar hole, which obviously will only increase in the coming years. On the other hand, we see that you have room for manoeuvre, you have unexpected revenues. I mentioned that only VAT revenues exceed the expectations by 100 billion, and there are other types of taxes here. That would give us room for manoeuvre, Mr. Secretary of State. I am in favour of giving benefits to employers, where appropriate, but let us look at the effects of these referrals and, where appropriate, not at local authorities. Make systems that are now unsustainable sustainable. You are defending that, of course, family support is trying to influence demographic processes, and let us see what you have achieved since 2010, when the fertility rate was around 1.2, until 2021. The thing is, it's basically nothing. The fact that the fertility rate has improved is indisputable and has returned to the level between 1.5 and 1.6 which, Mr Secretary of State, is two things: the average of the countries in the region and, where appropriate, still lower than the European average. The fact is, this did not happen because of the government's blessing. The demographic profession calls this process a replacement, so feel free to search it on a smartphone. In all the former socialist countries, which have been in a very unfortunate economic situation over the last 30 years, the fertility rate has fallen to 1.1-1,2-, and then they have all been replaced and returned to 1,5 neighborhoods. There was one exception, Mr Secretary: this happened in Hungary at the latest. So what you're talking about is the process that the profession calls a replacement, which has already happened in most countries in the region by 2010, not in Hungary. Here were very misguided, messed up, terrible steps, such as the Bokros package and others, which pushed out this phenomenon and impact, which was otherwise known by the profession, for years. It is a good thing for us that this could be restored in the 2010s, but at the same time not to simplify the decisions of Hungarian families regarding childbearing on purely tax policy and support issues. Here, the combined effect of a calm, safe, predictable environment, a proper wage level, a suitable housing program and the release of permanent political psychosis can create a situation where families in Hungary feel the possibility of prosperity in the homeland. This opportunity to prosper in the homeland has not been felt by hundreds of thousands of Hungarian compatriots in the last decade, they have gone abroad as a result. Now we have a huge opportunity, because the crisis caused by the corona virus is an opportunity for these young Hungarians to receive a motivational program to want to thrive at home. We don't see much of that on the housing front, I'm pretty sure we don't. [[11.40]] And if you are going to explain demography, then, Mr. Secretary of State, please also explain how you missed the greatest opportunity in this area, because the very, very populous camp of the Ratkó-grandsons has now fled, under your long-term government, essentially from the time to be able to have a physically biological child. So how they were able to release such a large generation without developing a complex package for them to thrive in any kind of homeland. Not only am I asking this, but my fellow Member Nacha will also speak. There is the study book "The Future of the Child," which your experts have noted, a lot of KDNP-close, otherwise excellent demographic experts have written this volume. They are making this question themselves, my fellow Member Nacsa, so I ask you to answer the question of your own experts at least how they missed this huge opportunity, how they were able to miss the opportunity to slow down towards the demographic divide. This is a huge loss for Hungary. All I ask of the Government of Hungary is that, at least within the margin available, it really favours families. You can do this now, say, by reducing the VAT content of child protection and child rearing articles, and by trying to give benefits to employers in such a way that long-term sustainability problems are not caused or, if they cause them, by answering how you would resolve these sustainability issues, such as your pension system, and how you imagine them. I've been trying to outline a possible solution, but in your numbers, it doesn't come back to me that they're going this way. Please, let me get this straight. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-12-01-35	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-12-01-36	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On a therapeutic basis, we listened to the usual speech of Daniel Z. Carpathian. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Usually the elements are not different, always saying the same thing, no matter what the subject of the bill is about. The minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage have not been mentioned by the Member, nor has the Member been able to include the level of tax reductions, but much has been said in a therapeutic manner. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Where were you in the last few minutes?]] For him, this is, let's hope, in advent weather, preparing for Christmas is important to his soul. I will come back to this, because the change in the Members' words has been very, very spectacular recently, since, in the past, when talking about measures affecting families and delaying demographic substitutions, it is enough to look back at the speeches of the honourable Member from 4 to 5 years ago, he usually started from the Bokros package and arrived through the Gyurcsány governments to the Bajna crisis management. At a time like this, now that the great collapsing does not include the praise of the period 2002-2010, the list of Members now stops at the Bokros package, in order to avoid doubting the listing place, and then we have to speed up the air. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The current bill, which is before us and which was presented by the Secretary of State, is a bill that a left-wing government and a left-wing finance minister would never have submitted to Parliament. I say this because the bill before us does not contain restrictions, not tax increases, but rather the opposite: it contains significant tax reductions in relation to the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in 2022, as well as an increase in public support for baby bonds. From 1 January 2022, the minimum wage will be 200,000 forints, which will be higher than the average wage at your time, and the guaranteed minimum wage will increase to 260 thousand forints from 2022. Successful crisis management and the excellent performance of the Hungarian economy provide opportunities for brave minimum wage increases on a historic scale and a guaranteed minimum wage. The Fidesz-KDNP governments have always been the governments of the highest possible minimum wage increases. We can recall that the first Orbán government increased the minimum wage from HUF 19 500 to HUF 50,000 between 1998 and 2002. This meant a raise of HUF 30,500 in four years. How much do you think the minimum wage has increased between 2002 and 2010? From 50,000 forints in eight years to 73 500 forints in total. So in eight years, you were able to raise 23,500 forints on the minimum wage. Then, between 2010 and 2022, the minimum wage increases from HUF 73 500 to HUF 200,000, which means an increase of HUF 126 500. So, once again, you have been able to raise the minimum wage by HUF 23,500 in eight years. That's what happened during your time. As a result of the negotiations on the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in 2022, the agreement was reached on 15 November 2021 that next year the minimum amount of the basic wage for full-time employees would be HUF 200 thousand per month, and the guaranteed minimum wage for a worker in a job requiring at least secondary education or secondary education, for a full-time period of HUF 260 thousand per month. The agreement includes a further reduction of the employer's public burdens by 4 percentage points compared to the rates currently in force. Thus, the rate of social contribution tax decreased gradually from 27 per cent earlier in 2017, to 22 per cent in 2017, to 19.5 per cent in 2018, to 17.5 per cent in 2019 and to 15.5 per cent in 2020; therefore from 27 per cent to 15.5 per cent in four years. In the next step, the social contribution tax will be reduced by a total of 2.5 percentage points compared to the current rate, thus reducing to 13 per cent from 1 January 2022 and removing the 1.5 per cent vocational training contribution tax. The reduction of the employer's burden will therefore be a total of 4 percentage points, i.e. 2.5 percent of the social contribution tax and 1.5 percentage points of the vocational training contribution. This means that employers' tax burden on one employee will be only 13 per cent from 1 January 2022. This tax burden under left-wing governance was 33.5 percent. So once again, to make honourable Members and Hungarian workers and entrepreneurs feel that in your time there was 33.5 percent tax burden on employees, and now it will be 13 percent from 1 January. I think that numbers speak for themselves, too, and it is worth raising awareness. Thus, under the Gyurcsány government, we can say that an employer paid more than two and a half times higher taxes on an employee than now, from 1 January 2022. In addition, the reduced rate of paying echo in the simplified public transport contribution, echo, falls from 15.5 per cent to 13 per cent. In the case of taxable persons who choose to pay a lot of taxes on small and medium-sized enterprises, the basis for the benefits due to the full-time taxpayer will be changed, from HUF 102 000 to HUF 108 000 per month, and from HUF 170 000 to HUF 179 thousand for taxable persons who choose to pay a higher lot tax. In addition, from 11 percent to 10 percent, the small company tax rate, the kiva rate, is reduced. It is worth noting that, in addition to these tax reductions, young people under the age of 25 will be completely tax-free from 2022. It should also be said that corporate tax remains at a low level of 9 per cent, which was 20 per cent under left-wing governance. I would like to point out in a sentence that your statements, based on the published programmes, clearly show that you are preparing for a tax increase again: personal income tax, corporate tax, local taxes and countless taxes on which I think we should say no, because tax increases are not the solution. We know that you have this Pavlovi reflex, that you need to automatically reach for tax increases when you're anywhere near the government. I am going to talk to the local authorities about this, because on numerous occasions, DK mayors have been able to prevent the abuse of residents of their districts, since both in Óbuda and in countless places the DK mayors wanted to levy taxes in order to harm citizens in the middle of the corona virus epidemic. While they are talking about bleeding out, for example, Obuda received more than 1.5 billion forints of tax revenue than the planned one. So, about bleeding out, I hope you won't talk to the Gyurcsányi mayors anymore, because it has nothing to do with reality. The bill also states that the rate of local business tax for Hungarian SMEs should not be higher than 1 per cent in 2022, in the same way as for 2021, or that those taxpayers are entitled to pay only 50% of their local industrial tax advance at each due date in 2022. I would like to ask my fellow Members not to use such terms in this debate, to withdraw the trade tax. [[11.50]] Don't use one of these because it's a lie that's circumstantial. This reduction will remain in place, ladies and gentlemen, in small and medium-sized enterprises. So if you are attacking this measure, you are saying that you do not want to support small and medium-sized enterprises in the economic downturn caused by the coronal virus epidemic; you do not want this resource to help and support the local community, local employers, local value-making enterprises. Because this money will not be included in the central budget, honourable Members. So I hope that on many occasions these words have been said only on the basis of well-meaning misunderstanding, that something is being withdrawn here. Nothing will be withdrawn, this amount will remain in place, and it will help and enrich the local community. The bill also states, and that is what I have just said, that the local tax introduction and tax increase moratorium will survive in 2022. I think it's a very important step. For example, there are many left-wing mayors in Budapest who are already freaking out why they can't hurt citizens with different tax increases. We've seen this in the eighth grade. In the district, we've seen this in the III. In the district, we've seen this in the IV. in the district, we have seen countless places where the mayors complain that they cannot raise taxes, fellow Members. I think it is right that they cannot raise taxes locally and can no longer torment their citizens locally. The bill also includes a doubling of the amount of state aid granted to young people's Start accounts. According to the proposal, from 1 January 2022, state aid will generally increase from HUF 6,000 to HUF 12,000 for the amounts paid to the Start account. The amount of the aid is 10 per cent of the amounts paid in the calendar year, up to 12 thousand forints. After payment to children entitled to regular child protection benefits, the amount increases from HUF 12 000 to HUF 24 000. The amount of the aid is 20 per cent of the amount paid, up to 24 thousand forints. The higher support encourages children's relatives to save 120 thousand forints a year instead of saving the current 60 thousand forints. The minimum wage of HUF 200,000, the guaranteed minimum wage of HUF 260 thousand, the further reduction of the employer's public burdens by 4 percentage points, the further reduction of echo and kiva, the exemption of workers under the age of 25, and the doubling of the amount of public support to the young people's Start account are all steps that can positively affect all Hungarian workers and employers from 1 January 2022. The large-scale tax reduction and the highest minimum wage increase since 2002 have further whitened the economy, further stimulated employment and further boosted wage increases. From 1 January 2022, there will be even more to lose for every Hungarian employee and employer, if the left took power, they would again introduce multi-key taxes, restrictions, withdrawals, tax increases and new taxes, as they are not hiding, but openly saying. I would also like to respond to the protection of families and family support, as Ildikó Bangóné Borbély spoke about this in the previous debate. When you attack us with a narrow family support system for the government or attack us with insufficient support for families, I think that the Advent period will also give us time for a little self-examination, because I agree, ladies and gentlemen, that it is always possible to expand family support and, in fact, at the beginning of next year, parents raising children will receive back their personal income tax payments paid in 2021, so I think it is right to think that we should provide further support for families, but when you say that, when you say that, in the time of your second child's commitment, it was essentially one with poverty, when, in your time, they took away the home-building programs, the family tax relief, reduced the duration of the child, stopped state-supported forint loans, drove families into foreign currency loans, then it sounds a little uncredited to you if you accept this advice. Between 97 and 98 percent of those involved make use of the family tax relief. So you're always talking about a tight layer of government family support, when 97 percent of those involved use family tax relief, for example, and I think that's right, and we could talk about home-building programs, baby shower support, car shopping support, home-renewal support in the government's family support system. If you recall, in your most generous year, the total amount of family support remained below a thousand billion, while now we are talking about HUF 2700-2800 billion, which, by the way, is first in Europe in proportion to GDP. I am not saying, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not have any further work to do on this, of course we do, of course, we need to increase family support, of course we need to work on the population policy, the demographic turnaround we talked about. I think it is a joyful result, and we acknowledge our results that we have the best increase in fertility rates in Europe, it is a good thing, but we are still very far from the end of the road, there is a lot to be done on this issue. But when you talk about family support and family policy, I think that this is sufficiently uncredited to be classified as the comedy category here. I think that tax cuts are always eligible, and I think that this bill that we have before us is historic. Much less, in your words, it certainly does not show how historic this bill we are discussing is. I believe that this bill is a very large basis for the economic policy of the coming years, since both the minimum wage increase, the guaranteed minimum wage increase and the corresponding tax cuts can underpin the good economic growth of the coming years, the expansion of the economy, and the economic policy that we have represented in the past, which is based on employment, which is based on investment, which is based on tax cuts, and which is based on the ability of all workers and families to bring more and more money home to their work. This is precisely why the KDNP fraction will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-01-37	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-12-01-38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, My colleague Nacsa talked about the Advent period and how we should look into ourselves at the beginning of the holidays, then I would recommend to the Member that you have something to meditate on and think about. We've already told you about the previous law, and I love it when you mainly meditate on what kind of program we'd be implementing, what we'd do, how we'd do it. I don't know how you dare to talk about things like that. We're so far apart that you believe there's no way you can understand what we want and how we want it. But you don't know, because I just don't know how you think you can even read our minds or anything. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's written down!]] I can give it to you, I've printed out our program, thank you for what you said here. Let's get this fertility rate straight. Yes, it has grown in the past, but, my fellow Member, have more children been born? You always come with a fertility rate, and you don't talk about the fact that no more children are born. I told Parliament exactly on Monday how many people were born in 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2006 we are not approaching that figure, my fellow Member, the 99 thousand or the 96 thousand. Okay, just put it behind the fertility rate, how many children have been born in the last few years. No, unfortunately, and it's a little more complicated than being considered a success. The demographic problem is a little more complex than it is possible for you to say that in recent years, of course, the very brutal data of 2011, there were barely more than 88,000 children born, they were able to improve it a little bit, but we are not even close to the data before 2010. And this could be a list of things that reflect Hungary today, starting with house building. This amendment of the law, we see it very well, the same as the previous law, a salad law. There's a lot of positive things in there, and of course there's a trap set up again for the opposition, and that's all I can say again. There are a lot of positive changes in this legislation, whether minimum wage or tax reductions or tax relief for young people, the Start account, but there is a trap that there are changes in it that cannot be accepted. And then you think that once again the party of the government has smartly set up the trap for the opposition, and then you can yell again if the opposition doesn't vote that the opposition is in favour of a tax increase again, and doesn't want to raise the minimum wage, and the rest and the rest. [[12.00]] Both Mr State Secretary and members of the Government have said that tax cuts essentially reduce the employer's burden, and that employees' taxes and contributions are not reduced. That is, next year, one employee will pay the State approximately three times more than the employer after his income. Congressman Nacsa, to understand and understand, because you said the same thing, I will tell you once again that next year, an employee after his income will pay approximately three times as much to the state as the employer. Employee: Father, mother, you know, those you so support. He'll pay three times more taxes than the employer. I don't think that's okay. When we talk about the minimum wage, my honourable fellow Member, it must be said that before 2010, people who earn the least, minimum wagers, did not pay taxes to the state on their income. I have just looked at it: about 34 percent of employees in the corporate sector are reported at minimum wage, and the public sector has a very high minimum wage rate, and at that time we did not even talk about public workers. The income of over a million people is the minimum wage in Hungary today, on which it is announced. You know, it's also wrong that so many employees, so many people have minimum wages, and then we talk about pensions, and we assume that while they're working, they're on a minimum wage, because it's going to affect their pension, because they're going to calculate the pension from the income they're looking for. This is a terrible problem. Let me tell you this, because you have not spoken about this in the last 12 years and continue to say that, if we look at poverty indicators, poverty has grown brutally in two sectors in Hungary, workers and pensioners, my honourable fellow Member. Allow me to say this, because this has been a topic several times over the past period, that 4.5 percent of pensioners were poor in 2010, and this is not data 21, because we do not know yet, and already 14.4 percent of pensioners are poor in 2020. [[To Nacsa Lawrence, swinging his head:]] Don't shake your head, fellow Member. Do you know where this came from? In KSH's data, even you can't deny it, whether you want it or not, it's on the KSH website. This means that today for the retirement age group who is receiving pension contributions , two thirds of pensioners receive an average pension. Two thirds. They like to use that word, my fellow Member, my fellow members of the Government, just not in this context. When we talk about how you reduce taxes, socho, all the others, and my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Karpát, said earlier, we are talking about a deficit on the part of the budget, and we are talking about the lack of a pension fund. Then allow me to, because I will forget to remind you of what you started governing in 2010. We haven't talked about it lately, but let's not forget it. Forints from employees were stolen from 3000 billion private banks. Don't shake your head again, my fellow Member, exactly you said that there will be a private account, that it will not be lost, that everyone will have a private account. Well, we've been waiting for ten years now. And it didn't work. Forints 3000 billion were missing, which belonged to the employees. It was stolen. They didn't return it until today. This is how they started their governance, citing the need to reduce public debt, and now we see where we are in the sovereign debt. Returning to the minimum wage, tax cuts, I would like to mention once again that Mihály Varga, at his ministerial hearing, said that they decided on the fate of about HUF 2000 billion, a tax reduction, a tax refund for families, and the payment of pensions. We asked at the time, although we were already asking this question in the previous debate, how and how it could be replaced in the budget. It has to be said, again, to ask the question, why now is the payment of this huge amount, why is the government not considering whether its budget foot is there or not. Of course, there is an election coming up, and we should somehow keep this power in the. 22nd election. My fellow Member also said that again, on the grounds that you know what taxes would be raised if the left-wing government were to pay, how the left-wing authorities would tax the people living in their settlements. You know, Congressman, when it was announced yesterday, if I remember correctly, or the day before yesterday, that the 12 billion forints to finance the operation of the BKV were terrible to see. Again, you've been acting like you've been begging me for months, as if you're exercising grace by giving me this money. Compared to this, the Gazette again appeared at night, and the city of Karcag will receive more than HUF 4 billion for cultural things. No one knows what it's for, because that's all it says for cultural events, investments. Interestingly, they knew that right away, just so no one knew what it was for. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You don't know!]] more than HUF 4 billion. What? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You don't know what!]] The Gazette does not specify exactly what it is for. No one knows. Believe me, it is always a question of how left-wing self-governments have been humiliated since 2019 and how, by avoiding the laws, they even give Fidesz-led cities the loss of revenue that they have withdrawn from the municipalities on the basis of the epidemic. You know, the only thing they forget is that people in settlements don't live with pure fidesz people in one and only left-wing or opposition citizens in the other, but mixed, thanks to God. Believe me, when Budapest or Szombathely is being punished or Miskolc is being punished, all citizens are being punished, not only those on the left but also those on the right. Basically, we can see in this bill, as I said at the beginning, that there are very, very many things in it that make you say that you can't vote for it, but there is another trap that, yes, the minimum wage must be increased. However, in spite of the fact that we are submitting our amendments to the budget or to anyone else during the year, we believe that, in the interests of the smallest earners, we must immediately decide not to tax minimum wage workers, the minimum wage is tax-free, as it was before 2010. Several times, we have asked them to raise the state aid, the Start account, and we have also submitted millions of times to raise the baby bond. I gave it to you in person several times. Interestingly, when it is submitted by opposition politicians, you either refer to something or not, but you will not vote for it if it is submitted to the budget, saying that we are submitting so many amendments that the budget would not be able to tolerate it. If an election year is approaching, it will be submitted by a pro-government politician, then of course that is okay. I must say, it is right that, after all this time, you have noticed that this has to be increased. Back to the situation of pensioners and families, I don't know, as long as there are speeches, I'm sure you can read the news, Congressman, one of the news today is that the price of bread and pastries is going to rise brutally. I'm guessing you've read it, as well as the reason why. Because farmers are holding back their crops because the gas price has increased so high that the cost of farmers has increased and will be burdened on consumers. Of course, it's a vicious circle. [[12.10]] The period before 2010 is always mentioned. Tell me, Congressman, before 2010, could we have paid nearly 500 forints for a kilo of bread? ! But it may reach 600 because no one can tell you how much this brutal price increase will be. Or they don't talk about the 27 percent consumer tax that we keep saying, that in this crisis, one of the biggest help is for pensioners, families raising children, public workers if we bring this tax down to 18% of general foods and 5 percent of basic foods. There are countries where this is done because they think that the greatest help is to all Hungarian people if we can give this to reduce the tax immediately. For some reason, we can't fool you. Once again, it is not okay that we have come to the point where the two figures have to be said that poverty is the greatest among workers and pensioners in the last 12 years. This is something that the government should think about when they vomit about how much the minimum wage is raised, but the tax rate remains. Again, I would like to warn the Secretary of State and the pro-government representatives of that sentence. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] three times more taxes are paid by one employee today than by the employer. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-12-01-39	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-12-01-40	Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much for the floor. The T/1766. We must now give an opinion on the legislative proposal or we have the opportunity to give an opinion. Although my fellow Member has already called on us to discuss what we should not talk about, we will decide what we want to talk about on the subject. First of all, I would like to record what has been said here that this bill is at that time the basis of Fidesz's economic policy, which is what they want to rely on, and I would like to say in my speech that this bill is the bill of the government of great deception, and I believe that the comments that have already been made by my fellow opposition Members have shown in many respects that everything has a price. Just to give you an example at the beginning: it is true that tax incentives can be granted, while these tax incentives are multiplied by the rate of HUF 80,000 at the rate of 27 per cent of the overall turnover tax, or I could say that more than 600 thousand pensioners under HUF 100 thousand will be reimbursing virtually one third of their pension in that month, the 27 per cent of their pension that they received at the beginning of the month. In this respect, it is safe to talk about the fact that, yes, you are fooling people. I would like to make one more point here at the beginning: in particular in an economic situation that is clear that it has evolved as a result of the economic crisis caused by the epidemic threat, but even in these circumstances, they continue to do so and do so because you have managed to achieve that the weakest forint is the most expensive, the most expensive, the highest debt and the highest inflation in the European framework. In addition, you have managed to create this situation in such a way that over the past years and now, if you are used to ten years, you have practically doubled the public debt over the past twelve years. Forints 20,000 billion were spent on one occasion alone; the pension savings of HUF 3000 billion already mentioned by my fellow Member were spent confiscating from three million people and spending EUR 50 billion, which is virtually another HUF 20 000 billion, which has been spent in the past period just so that they have received this assistance every year. From this point of view, to say that this is a successful farming, I think that this must be some kind of joke for you. In the meantime, our money is deteriorating much more rapidly than expected, and let us add that inflation is not raging everywhere, but let us talk about this with regard to the Hungarian National Bank on the next agenda. The second round of thought, which is to say that we should consider it welcome that the submission of the law was justified by the establishment of an agreement between the Competition and the Permanent Consultation Forum on the increase of the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. So far, it's okay if it wasn't obvious months ago. Prime Minister has already announced the final result, and I am very sorry that, in itself, not only for preparing the agreement, but also for preparing this law, you have not taken the opportunity that you created for yourself, or you have ordered yourself, to carry out a preliminary and ex post impact assessment, an impact assessment; because if you were to do this, you would know exactly, or you would know more precisely, that while these tax reductions are otherwise being carried out, what will be the consequence of this. To give you once again an example: in the past, the idea of the functioning of the pension system and its sustainability was done in an autonomous pension fund, but today, in the budget, as a result of your blessed activities, it became an independent line, nothing else. We're in revenue, we're in publishing, we'll see you again. The fact that this is now in an extra or minus state has already been mentioned by my fellow Member on the right, there is now a big minus, and as we move forward, this big minus continues to seem to increase. So I have to say that any decision you've begun to make here in a therapeutic way has consequences, it has a price. There is no free lunch, but you are happy to stress what you have done and what you are doing in this bill, but you forget to say that there is a price, this leads to the maintenance of 27 percent VAT, and this is what it means. If you do not say so, this is still felt by the people, although Parliamentary Secretary Tállai said a few days ago that neither the exchange rate deterioration nor inflation was felt by families. So they must feel the same way as the Secretary of State. For therapeutic treatment, I think it is also part of the fact that, although the Member has undertaken to pass out advice here, I say that the very families who are affected by the situation that you have created are in an economic situation by the end of this year and those who cannot be given cake under the Christmas tree are not to be advised by you. I could say this also because Mr Secretary of State started his contribution, his exposé, or mentioned in a sentence that citizens should benefit from the results that the country has achieved. Then I would definitely have two suggestions. The first is to bring back what was stolen, and then much bigger, not 750 billion forints, but those oligarchs who have overpriced investments, and you are very proud of what large investments they are making, so they will bring back the overpriced rate of this, and otherwise they could multiply the tax reduction and the benefits they can give to citizens. [[12.20]] I could say that we could do an election year every year, because that would be great for everyone, and everyone would be happier. Just, Mr. Secretary, you know who's not happy? Those disabled pensioners who lost their benefits in 2011 reached the point of making a ridiculous offer to compensate for all the circumstances that they had taken away from them in 2011 when they caused four times as much damage to each person whose working capacity was limited or not at all. That's when I tell you that you can say things like giving discounts, compared to that, there's a price. They took it from them and gave it to someone else. They gave it to the few, those who may have needed it, but it was necessary to increase their wealth, not their daily livelihood. In the same way, they took away the salary increase for teachers, when they did that, by the way, they were reassured that they would be tied to raising the minimum wage, and then none of this became true. And what is the consequence of this today, anyway? By the way, there's a mass dropout, as with all their other decisions, I don't want to tell you what they're up to right now. Or now these few months, right before the election, by filing a law, see T/1766, they're filing and giving us discounts. And what have you been doing with the pensioners for the last 10 years, but let's just say, 12 years? They've been tricked! They said that they offered real value preservation, and they did not say that we would give this by eliminating the mixed indexation, the Swiss indexation, and they took at least one and a half million forints from each pensioner. Now that you're trying to compensate me in the last months, and you're very proud of that, I can say that you have to do this because of your conscience, because pensioners deserve it, after many decades of work, they have to get their money, but, quite frankly, Mr. Secretary, this is not how you do it, that you take it away from them first, collect it, and then give it back to them. We can put in favour of the cumbersomeness, which is the same thing, that, by the way, they will be taken away from people, they will be paid more, and then they will try to say that they are favourable to them, even though this has nothing to do with reality, because, for example, in that area, there could have been a lot more or a lot more for the Hungarian people, because, moreover, when they give it back, it is limited to the few who are primarily your friends, companies with loyal ownership, and, for some reason, selected social groups that are trying to benefit in this sense. So what they're stressing and what they're doing, when they say they're giving discounts to small businesses or businesses, I could tell everyone that what they're giving you, just accept that if they hit you, then run away. But the municipalities can't run away because they're there, and they're doing it to their detriment, and they're continuing to do it in this sense. Now, let us consider it a general principle in this sense, as this law is regarded as such an economic policy principle, that the autonomy of the local authorities is essentially being abolished by you, and, in legal terms, they may still have some room for manoeuvre, but essentially all economic room for manoeuvre is being taken away from them, but they have also worked with great forces in the legal part of the past years, and they have done so. So in this way, if the businesses concerned can save HUF 150 billion, but they beat it on others, they take it away from others, so this is an economic policy or farming that cannot and cannot be supported. Baby bonds have been cleverly smuggled into this bill. I think it may be amusing to increase the discount of 6,000 forints, they did so for 12,000 forints. Well, let's do it. Like I said, what they give you, you take it, and that's how you farm it. In this sense, the proposal is clearly part of, and relates to, a completely disenfranchised electoral budget. You're on the run, but it also says that if this doesn't work out from the election side, the flood will follow us, and what happens will happen. This is strongly confirmed by the fact that the source of this is not the performance of the economy, but the whole of it is being financed through credit. As I said on the previous agenda, only in the last month many billions of foreign currency loans were taken in order to finance all of this, while I have to say that the budget for 2022 will only be kept if the EU funds are agreed on, because if this is not done, and you are currently in no condition to do so, because Europe and partly and partly the air of the international environment are running out of air around you, unfortunately, European Union funds are being spent on something that should not be. Therefore, in this form, the bill would be very difficult to support by us, and you would need to make a lot of amendments to this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-12-01-41	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-12-01-42	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, What we are debating is the minimum wage increase for next year, and according to the proposal, the minimum wage will increase to HUF 200,000 next year and the guaranteed minimum wage will increase to HUF 260 thousand. This is 19.4 per cent and 18.7 per cent increase, which we might even think of as a first run, is nice, but I think it should be noticed that last year's minimum wage increase or guaranteed minimum wage increase was nowhere near this scale, so much so that last year's increase in real terms means a clear decrease if we look at the inflation figures for 2021. They have suffered a clear and high depreciation on the minimum wage and on the guaranteed minimum wage, and I think that if we look at it this way, it can be said that in two years this value has been increased by around 10-10 percent. But I believe that it is worth considering these figures in context with other developments in economic policy. Let's see why inflation took the guaranteed minimum wage increase last year, so that, by the way, when calculating inflation, it is very amusing, unfortunately, and so bittersweet, I don't know how to say this in the shopping basket to this day is still part of the cassette player. That's what made me think of this weekend talking to my girls, and I told them that Mirikam, did you know that tape recorder plays a role in the calculation of inflation? And he asked me what that was. So the thing is, we don't use these tools today so much that a younger compatriot doesn't know what a tape recorder is, or if he knows it, he may never have met it personally, and I think that this tells us a lot about inflation calculations, and in part about what a chimp of visual politics is the proposal that we have here. [[12.30]] For what does a guaranteed minimum wage of HUF 260 thousand mean, or what is the minimum wage of HUF 200,000? If I count this net, it means 135 thousand forints, and I don't even remember the net worth of the guaranteed minimum wage, I'm sorry about that. Let us see that when we talk about tax policy, not about tax policy, but about economic policy, what it means, because a tax policy, an economic policy, also describes a value policy. It is not by accident that many speakers have said to me that the 27 percent general sales tax. And yet I say we compare apples to apples. So let's see what it means to pay 260 thousand forints in today's Hungary! I'm looking at the payroll of the public administration staff. There are practically 170 cells here, and of these 170 cells, so there are only 11 of these 170 payment categories that will exceed 260 thousand forints next year. What does that mean? This means, ladies and gentlemen, that you value the work of public administration workers as the worst paid skilled workers. That is what this proposal means, and I ask you with respect, and yes, there are exceptions, because it is not true for everyone in the administration to appreciate their work, because there is, for example, Karas Monika, the recently departed head of the NMHH, who put in his pocket about HUF 60 million gross in order to resign, and the next day, in the same position in the administration, he can earn the HUF 4.5 million he will earn again. But let's be honest, those who work in public administration are not looking for me anywhere near it, and this basically leads to a pay table of this kind, that whoever can do it is running away from public administration, practically everywhere, because you think that the value of the public administration's work is as much and can be more than the least paid professional. I think that when we make comparisons like this, we should get in line. I think education is a matter of national strategy. And yes, with all due respect, the teacher's pay table is in a very similar situation. Unfortunately, what we see today is that a beginner educator, regardless of whether he holds a college or a master's degree, will receive the guaranteed minimum wage, so he will receive the salary of the worst paid skilled worker. You value educators in public education. You know, I'm talking about the work of people who taught our children, our grandchildren and ourselves at the time, who can really make a country competitive, but you think economic policy is right where a career-starting educator makes as much as a kubik. That is the case, with respect. Let us be honest that this has resulted in the fact that, as I have already given this example in my comment before the agenda, a teacher who teaches a CNC-astrous profession in a secondary institution when this student passes the exam will earn at least three times as much net value as the teacher who taught him how to treat CNC. That's your values. Unfortunately, there's nothing to do with that in the debate of this law. I think that this would be the point where we should talk about the pay situation of law enforcement workers, that the reason why a lot of police schools don't work today is because you don't pay decently those employees, the workers who fight for our safety, for our quiet lives every day. I am talking about the salary of those who, where appropriate, defend Parliament's building when protesting. And now it doesn't matter which side of the police cordon I'm on, but the cops aren't paid. The same can be said about firefighters, law enforcement workers. You're taking a daily risk for net salaries, ladies and gentlemen, which you value for what is described by the guaranteed minimum wage, so it's the wages of the worst earning skilled workers. I think that's what we need to talk about when we talk about your economic policy, because either you can't or you don't want to think about the latter in a system. And of course, it sounds so good when during the morning radio hearing, during the news, the news edited by MTI announces that, with respect to the Hungarian government's initiative, the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage were raised by nearly 20 percent. The same news does not add that otherwise the worst earner earns little or as much money as a graduate, career-starting educator, as a police officer who posts on the street, and feels the responsibility at every moment. I think that this is not all right, and, honourable House, honourable Secretary of State, that should be the answer. I think there's one more thing to talk about. I think it was said yesterday in the walls of this House that small and micro enterprises have never been so competitive. What the reality of this is, if you were to leave the House a little on the street, you could experience it yourself, but I think it is certain that the 4-percent employer cost reduction that has been associated with the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, in order to be honest, can only compensate for the increase in costs to a very small extent, or, let us say, to an unacceptable extent. So let me make a suggestion. It would be essential to develop a proper, genuine wage support, which would reduce the wage increases that would otherwise be needed for small and micro-enterprises and reduce their burden and costs specifically for small and micro-enterprises. Today, it can be clearly stated that small and micro-enterprises and public administrations are the two major areas where most people are looking for minimum wages and a guaranteed minimum wage, and I think that the wage increase is necessary, because if I compare this extremely high minimum wage in Europe, then the minimum wage for the future is still below the minimum wage level of the V4 this year. Ladies and Gentlemen, I think that this is a small and fundamental problem not only with the amounts, but also with the economic programme behind them, with the economic policy, which, by the way, has resulted in inflation being above 6 per cent today, and that, apart from the few exceptions, sectors that take serious responsibility for our future are not paid. I think that this should be fundamentally changed first. Thank you very much. [[12.40]]
u2021-12-01-43	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the representative of nationality invited by the committee representing the nationalities to speak. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, a German national representative, who explains the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates it into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2021-12-01-44	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Sehr geehrter Staatssekretär! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich meine Meinung, bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschlags mit Titel, Zu den steuerlichen Maßnahmen im Zusammenhang mit der Erhöhung des Mindestlohns und des garantierten Mindestlohns im Jahr 2022, und zur bestimmten anderen Maßnahmen 17668, force field. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to express my opinion on T/1766. on the tax measures required in connection with the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in 2022, as well as the bill on certain other measures. At its meeting on 29 November 2021, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary discussed the bill on the agenda, from which nationalities native to Hungary are directly affected by the reduction of the social contribution tax and the elimination of the vocational training contribution in the context of the increase of the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in 2022 through the national minority institution network. The wage contributions would have been reduced from 1 July 2022 in accordance with the rules already adopted, if the 1.5 per cent vocational training contribution and the social contribution tax had been reduced by 0.5 percentage points to 15 per cent. On the basis of the bill we are discussing now, this measure would be brought forward by 1 January 2022 and the rate of the social contribution tax will be reduced by another 2 percentage points to a total of 2,5 percentage points to 13 percent compared to the current rate. The reduction in the employer's burden is therefore a total of 4 percentage points from 1 January 2022, resulting from the reduction of the social contribution tax by 2.5 percentage points and the elimination of the training contribution of 1.5 per cent. This measure will lead, to varying degrees, but will lead to significant improvements in the management conditions for all ethnic public education and cultural institutions maintained by national authorities and ethnic foundations. This positive effect applies, of course, to the ethnic public education and cultural institutions maintained by Klebelsberg Centre, municipal authorities and churches. In view of the fact that the National Council of Germans adopted its budget for 2022 on the last Saturday, 27 November, it can be concluded, based on the current figures, that, for example, for the National Local Government and reserved institutions of Germans in Hungary, i.e. MNOÖ's office, MNOÖ's task supply, the German Cultural and Information Center and Library in Hungary, the German Nationalities High School and College in Budapest, the Valeria Koch School Centre in Pécs, the Schiller High School in Pilisvörösvár and the College, the German Theatre in Szekszárd and the German Center for Pedagogics and Methodology in Hungary, this reduction represents a total annual cost savings of between HUF 65 and 70 million, which will certainly offset the additional budget financing need resulting from the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed wage. Of course, the budgetary surplus of the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, as well as the budgetary savings of the 4 percentage points reduction, must be examined by institution, as the number of institutions employed, depending on the number of technical staff employed at the minimum wage, may vary significantly, including in absolute terms and in percentage. National and local minority authorities should also be examined separately for the treatment of derogations. In the case of institutions in the maintenance of national minority self-governments, national self-governments have the possibility of relatively flexible fiscal transfers between institutions of the necessary size and proportion, by amending their budgets. In the case of national minority self-governments, this concerns some 25 ethnic public education institutions. At present, national minority public education institutions maintained by local self-governments are in a different situation, which represents 75 institutions, as 55 different local minority self-governments are not allowed to maintain, including fiscal transfers, according to the current legislation. Recognizing this, on the proposal of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, a HUF 350 million framework was adopted in the Central Budget Act 2022 in spring, specifically complementing the operating support of the national minority public education institutions maintained by local ethnic authorities in 2022. This will allow us to carry out, on the basis of the institutions' budget for 2022, a detailed, detailed survey of the operational difficulties and additional support needs of national minority public education institutions maintained by local ethnic authorities in the first quarter of 2022, and to ensure legitimate operational needs annually to the extent necessary with specific support. This is all the more necessary since the benefits of the new, normative and 30-35 percent more favourable status and average wage financing system introduced for the national minority public education institutions in 2013 in the past seven years have been significantly outweighed in budgetary terms by the otherwise welcome and favourable decisions taken in the past seven years. Such positive measures were the previous annual minimum wage increases and guaranteed minimum wage increases; the so-called middle-up of teachers' allowances; the introduction of free textbook procurement, the financing of the same annual average standard, which, however, does not provide the necessary coverage for the two-language nationality institutions, especially in the long-term schoolbook procurement years; the introduction of free catering, however, where the dietary standard in many places does not provide the necessary budget coverage and could be classified for a longer period. Undoubtedly, there were, on the other hand, measures to reduce costs against the positive decisions and measures requiring additional budgetary resources, but, according to our incomplete calculations and surveys, by reducing the public burden by 4 percentage points ahead of us, 2022 will be the first year when decisions in different directions will be clearly positive in terms of national minority public education institutions, which, of course, we welcome. Finally, I would like to say, exceptionally, a little subjectively, a few sentences about a negative phenomenon, I think, which arises in some people after almost every positive decision, namely: they do not look at who, and to what extent, with the decision in question, who are in better circumstances, what positive impact this can have on both the immediate and the wider environment, but they are looking for what tension and in what areas the still positive momentary decision can generate. [[12.50]] Strictly speaking, staying in the area of nationality is a typical example of recent years: when we raised the need to increase the minority pedagogue bonus, we immediately met with the negative comments that this will trigger tension among non-ethnic educators and why we do not differentiate the nationality bonus, why not extend it to all ethnic educators. In 2017, at the time of the Parliament's debate on the proposal for the first increase in minority teachers' allowances, I said that I was working/working on it, and that we would be most happy to finally achieve, in the area of nationality, that we have created, so to speak, tension, because that would mean that we were finally able to make some substantial progress, something that others have already noticed. I'm ahead of the tension, and once we're there, we're gonna have to solve them. That's what we did when... even before the future tension came up, we solved it. At the beginning of 2020 we received significant assistance from the Ministry of Human Resources. In particular, when, prior to the third increase in the minority allowance, we indicated to Mr Zoltán Maruzsa, State Secretary for Public Education that the 40 percent nationality allowance will now be equal to the lower limit of the deputy director's allowance, and this can cause tension, he replied: "Imre, you take the preparations for the increase in minority allowances, fight the decision, submit the necessary legislative amendments, and if Parliament accepts and the allowance is raised, I will settle the question of the deputy director's allowance. This was the case: in the autumn of 2019 the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary submitted the necessary amendments, the Parliament unanimously accepted them, and from 1 January 2020 the upper limit of the minority pedagogue bonus was increased to 40 per cent, and at the same time we introduced two more differentiated categories, using the possibility of a significantly increased bonus now, and extended the allowance to all ethnic educators. At the same time, and within just one month, the EMMI has increased the Deputy Director and Director allowances, of course not only for nationality but also for all public education institutions. I do not wish to say, by any chance, that we have raised the Deputy Director and Director's allowances, but it is quite right to say that multiple increases in the minority pedagogue bonus have put pressure from the bottom and have helped to increase the Deputy Director's and Director's allowances. The situation is similar with the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. It can be said that this results in tension in the lower pay categories of teachers, and this is probably the case, but this will help and guarantee that further positive progress will be made in the teacher pay table as soon as possible. In addition, in the case of ethnic public education institutions, we see and perceive the positive impact of the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage increase on both sides. On the one hand, from the workers' side, because the auxiliary staff involved in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage increase are kitchen workers, nannyes, cleaners, technical staff living conditions, their satisfaction is as important to us as that of teachers, as they are also with children every day, affecting the atmosphere, atmosphere and quality of the institutions. On the other hand, as an employer, we also see that the 4 percentage points contribution reduction, in addition to providing budgetary coverage for the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, provides additional opportunities for teachers, for example, to increase the reward framework, cafeteria and other benefits, so that we can even now improve the situation of teachers who are not affected by the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. On this basis, and taking into account all of this, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary is set out in Annex T/1766. It agrees with and proposes to the House that it be adopted. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit.
u2021-12-01-45	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-12-01-46	Thank you. Mr President, Let us not run past what has been said here in the last hour by the opposition, whether by László Varju or by Antal Csárdi. We are dealing with the opposition saying that it does not support tax reductions, does not support the reduction of employers' taxes, does not support the reduction of social contribution taxes, does not support the introduction of vocational training contributions. So I think, and I said in my expo, that this is a proposal on an historic scale, so it is still worth taking a look at. I understand that before the elections, you like to play your favorite game, that if we give you a number, you will try to say a bigger one. It's a game in which, obviously, according to the rules of mathematics, you can't lose, only we have the obligation to tell the truth, and you can't. We'll do those, we'll do the tax cuts. We're not just saying, we're not just talking in the air; when we tell you to have a minimum wage of 200,000, you say, I don't know, I don't know. I understand the efforts of my fellow Members, but I think that we should say that there is a historic minimum wage increase here, there is a historic guaranteed minimum wage increase, there is a historic tax reduction here, and you do not support it. I think this is because it is very important because of the decisions of the next period, it is very important to know who stands for the Hungarian people, the Hungarian employers and the workers, who, by the way, stands for the lower categories of payment workers, is exactly clear from this debate, which, I think, is much more important than it seems right now. Thank you very much.
u2021-12-01-47	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr László Varju, who also applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2021-12-01-48	Thank you very much. I see that Congressman Nacsa is trying to lay the foundations for the next two or three weeks of communication, at least from your point of view. But if that's what the Fidesz is going to do, I could say that we've had a big impact on all of this. Now, before you run into this story, I would like to draw your attention, Congressman, not to lie. No Member has said that they do not support the tax reduction! There's one thing I've told you clearly that you're denying and I can't tell you, and you're lying, and in the meantime, there's a price to pay, and if you haven't understood what I'm talking about, I'm telling you now. The fact that you create these conditions is also the price and pay when people in health care are in line when they do not perform surgeries, when you create conditions that are incapable of normal disease management, and more than 30,000 people have had to die because you can't do anything about it. In addition, I have to see that this struggle has been given up in recent weeks, because they can only really say that they are proud of the third vaccination, otherwise they cannot do more than that, and that they can not solve it for all those who would otherwise need to receive the first vaccination and, in this sense, strengthen their social responsibility. So, Congressman, take back what you said, don't try to do that. And, you know, give advice to someone you can give cake to. He can't give it to me, and he can't give it to people. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[13.00]]
u2021-12-01-49	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Now, as no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, there will be further speeches by their representatives. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-12-01-50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In relation to the bill before us, my opposition colleagues have expressed very strong opinions, and I would like to discuss this further with regard to the municipal part. A significant part of the bill deals with this fact, that the municipalities can expect a significant loss of revenue in the planning of their budget for the year 2022. This means that while you said it was László Parragh's idea, if I remember correctly, in the year 2020, in order to reduce the trade tax by half, the municipalities thought it was a temporary state. Indeed, in the Covid epidemic it was then absorbed that they had to take part in the epidemic treatment, but from 2022 they could again collect a maximum of 2 percent business tax from businesses. In this bill, you are proposing to maximize 1 percent, and in practice, the municipalities will be deprived of half their business tax revenues for another year. Why is this a problem in 2022? In 2022, not only will the 1 per cent trade tax be the ceiling that you can collect, but also the right of local governments to impose additional taxes and raise taxes. I am not saying that we are on the side of tax increases, as you will be throwing at us, but that you should think a little about the situation of the municipalities, how difficult it is for them to be in a situation where they are in a position to keep their powers down, because cities and settlements are to be operated, but they are losing a significant part of their own revenue. Just today, Róbert Lengyel, Mayor of Siófok, communicated how much tax revenue would be lost in 2022. We are talking about a settlement of over 25 thousand people with a population of 25 080 people, Siófok, the capital of Lake Balaton, where this means a loss of revenue of about one billion HUF. In the case of an industrial tax, 650 million is calculated. But what is another tax that is a significant item in the case of Siófok? The tourist tax, the increase of which would obviously be justified, since the settlements in the area of Lake Balaton are already scrubbing or exceeding 500 HUF, is still 400 HUF in Siófok. That's what the board's been thinking about. With this legislation, which now lies before us, it also deprives the municipality of this possibility. Why is this a problem if, of course, government subsidies and government resources are available for some of the developments and investments? But we know very well that Siófok is opposition-led, and this is also very impressive in the award of tender money, and you can throw numbers at the amount of money that comes to Siófok. It's just that if we look at the north coast, we'll see what kind of tender money Balatonfüred can get. I have received this from you many times that this has nothing to do with the leadership that the settlement has chosen for itself, but the figures show that there is indeed some factual evidence of this. Well, if that's what you're looking at, I'd like to point out that. You can tell the municipalities, as you always do, that, by the way, the municipalities are so rich, but so rich, and how many thousand billion forints are in the local government's accounts. I see now, Secretary of State nodding, you will say again that Siófok has HUF 5.6 billion in his account. I would add, I asked Mr Mayor that I was confronted in Parliament by the fact that there was HUF 5.6 billion in the bill, and then the Mayor told me that, well, yes, Madam Member, only a large part of these are tender sources which are public procurement. So it's a dedicated resource that can't, say, be used for own investment [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] It's a dedicated source, so I've got what it can be spent on. Only if the locality, let's say, wants to tear down four more streets, it will not have a source for that, because there is no funding for it, because these funds, which are available, have their place. So it can be said about the local government that from the fact that the business tax ceiling will be 1 percent in 2022, they will create one foot and source of the increase in the minimum wage so that entrepreneurs will be able to pay people the increase in the minimum wage. Why don't you put another source on this? Let's say we shouldn't build a Budapest-Belgrád railway line. How many times have we told the opposition that there is a return on investment over nearly a thousand years, but this is more important to you than leaving this opportunity at the local authorities and financing entrepreneurs through another channel. But we understand, we see, this is absolutely a whole charade that you are doing about it, all you want to do is create an even more addictive relationship between the pro-government Members of Parliament and the mayors and councils; so that the person who will be able to get closer to the Member of Parliament will get the money from the Hungarian village, and from the programme "Modern Cities"! Well, tie them up even more and submit to the policy that you are pursuing. This is quite outrageous, fellow Members. This brings back the darkest ages, I'm sorry, well, now it really shows that elected mayors and councils on the ground can't make their own decisions. The people there voted for them in order to make improvements from that business and other tax revenue that locals are organising from the bottom up to the bodies of representatives. You're preventing them from taking half the business tax. And my fellow Member, Mr Nacsa, told us not to use this to draw him away. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We won't take it, stay there!]] Of course they will. My fellow Member! It is not that businesses should not be helped. We fully agree with that, but at least they'll compensate these settlements. What's gonna happen here? This has already been asked at the committee meeting, everything remains the same as it was in 21 in 2022. Then the settlements of over 25,000 people can go, knock on the door, then all kinds of ministry, secretary of state, I don't know what doors to give us compensation. The settlements of less than 25,000 people will receive it, but what about the cities that, by the way, are typically opposition-led settlements. By the way, I'm not surprised that this was just pulled at 25,000 to get Siofok into this. [[Lőrinc Nacsa and Sándor Hadházy laugh.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, the population of Siófok has been under 25,000 in recent years, and you have now made a fine sum of that, that it has exceeded 25,000, that you have drawn this line here. Well, that's why, my fellow Member. You can smile about it, but when you start to think about it, to look at the municipal composition of who is there, who will not receive normal compensation again... I know I will also get this, that in 21 Siófok lost HUF 800 million in business tax revenue, but he received HUF 272 million for the renovation of the Rose Garden. Thank you so much. But why couldn't you get this 272 million forints from other sources? So why couldn't it be fully compensated for the business tax revenue that would otherwise have been a suitable source for the development of the city and for that direction? (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Entrepreneurs will be able to produce the minimum wage increase either way. Fellow Members! Well, it's definitely that... well, it's been showing lately that they're going to be able to produce it. I'll tell you how. By raising the minimum wage to HUF 200,000, this applies to 40 hours of employment. By the way, I have repeatedly pointed out this in previous years that entrepreneurs, especially the small ones, the microwaves that you don't even count on... That is why the average salary of HUF 430-440,000 and what will happen to the smallest, my fellow Members? [[13.10]] They'll say you won't be employed in eight hours, but in six or five. Because you won't be able to produce that increase in wages from that economic momentum, so what are you going to do? Trick! My fellow Members, if you do not understand and understand this, you are in very big trouble. What's gonna happen? And I'm going to refer you back to the previous agenda, where we talked about pensioners, that there's going to be a downtime drop here, and it's going to bring everything back to you, because those small entrepreneurs... And I'm gonna say it again: I'm thinking about people under five, especially. For those coercive companies, which are very, very large in Hungary. How will people continue to work for 40 hours a week? I can see that what I'm saying is heart-to-heart with you, but this is the Hungarian reality. Entrepreneurs in the countryside, in particular, are in a lot of trouble, who are struggling to make a living every day and who are able to pay for the few people they employ. But taking your time off is not the answer. This will have and may have social and social consequences, which we do not think yet, but there will come a time when the service time will have to be calculated, and even though you work down those defined 40 years, you will face the fact that he has not had the 40 years because he has not paid so much taxes and contributions. So it must be created that the minimum wage increase has the other foot, but why is it in the municipalities? Why are local governments burdened with the creation of this other leg? Why not instead of making investments; really, the Budapest-Belgrád railway will return in a thousand years, and instead, instead, they would spend resources on it. This is when we say that there is irresponsibleness in their economic policy activities. When you say that predictability is not predictable, fellow Members! Almost HUF 3000 billion is already the budget deficit in 2021 because you spend all kinds of investment that you wouldn't otherwise need. And by the way, I told you in the previous debate that they were building, say, a stadium. When it is built, obviously, the circle that is enriched with these investments should be set aside, although that is also rather outrageous. But he's gonna be okay. Someone's got to run it. Who's gonna run these? Yeah, well, then you'll get the money from the Tao so you can run it, because now you've been left with the idea that it's not enough to just apply for replacement training, professional tasks, and now you can apply for real estate management because you've realized that these associations can't run it. When the municipality has such an investment, there is also the question, the question of operation, which is a long-term decision, a long-term task, which if it does not have its own revenue, how will it be covered? From what? I mean, he's not gonna make any other investments because he's gonna have to regroup. This 1-percent trade tax ceiling will cause a very big problem, and of course, obviously, we are confident here with my fellow opposition Members that this will be removed from the legislation in the final vote. I always tell you, they always put mines in salad law. [[To the intervention of Lőrinc Nacsa:]] It's like that! [[Laughing:]] It's a genre! It's a salad law, Congressman. It's a salad law! Now, you're gonna find out that we're trying to convince you here about the real world, but you're living in an alternate reality, my fellow Members. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] Well, that's not our reality. So that's what we're going to do after April 2022. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2021-12-01-51	Good afternoon. Welcome to this cozy debate. In order to enhance this, I will give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the representative of KDNP, who asked for a two-minute contribution. Here you go.
u2021-12-01-52	Yes, to call for an increase: thank you for the floor. Mr President, I understand the Siofok-based conspiracy theory of the congresswoman. Believe me, when the number of souls was determined, not everyone in the whole country was looking at how many people lived in Siófok and trying to determine it that way. I understand this conspiracy theory, but that's not true. I wonder if the chairman of the Enterprise Development Committee, who is sitting next to you, will convene the committee to express that, come on, businesses can produce this, why they need support. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: If you want it, it's all together!]] They can produce it anyway. Because I think this would be an important issue; the Committee on Enterprise Development should address the fact that in Parliament there are Members who say so about businesses and wage increases, that they do not need a tax reduction, that they can produce it, that they can manage it. I don't agree with that. I am pleased that this government supports businesses. And again about the business tax. This will not be withdrawn, honourable Member. In Siófok companies, in companies employing people from Siófok and the neighbourhood, who live there, spend their money, pay there, there will remain this money, in place: Siófok and its surroundings, honourable Member. And to the constituencies where you would like to run for the parliamentary elections with the support of Ferenc Gyurcsány, 36 billion HUF of development funds have arrived in the last two years, honourable Member. 36 billion forints of development. I think that many others, who represent other constituencies, would be happy to have so many resources in their constituencies. Once again: HUF 36 billion in the last two years in the Siófok constituency. The congresswoman complained that the many billions in the local government's account are dedicated funds. So it goes to development, it gets nicer, it's better for investors, it's better for tourism, so it's better. Congresswoman would like to see funds that can be spent freely and stolen. It is right that these are dedicated, dedicated resources for development, honourable Member, to develop Siófok and his neighbourhood. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-01-53	Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi is next, Jobbik, in two minutes.
u2021-12-01-54	Thank you, Mr. President. From HUF 5.6 billion, the investment of Révész Street Stadium is HUF 2 billion. 2 billion forints. Just because it accounts for nearly half of the source that's now in Siófok's account, which is now there for many years, because BMS, who takes a lot of money off a month, is simply unable to write out public procurement and can't start the investment. This is also your responsibility! That sports organization can't carry out the investment that the Siofoks received the money for. And yes, if there's progress, that's good, but don't... So let's have developments and applications that come from the bottom, and don't tell us from the top that you have to build a fountain, and I can't... [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Yeah, so sometimes it's such a weird investment. I'm sorry to say this, because sometimes you really just blow your mind about what you're going to do when you don't make that kind of investment. And these own incomes create the possibility that the members of the body of representatives, elected by the people there, will determine what they want. 'Cause now I've got this application system going, now it's this way! Of course, if the municipality wants him to have a fountain, because that's what he had in his development plan right now, then he should have a fountain. But if that's not what he wants, it's what he wants Petőfi Street to be, and that's how he can do it. Of course, you can apply for road development programs. Yes, these proposals always take place, my fellow Members, in order for the Members of Parliament to be hand-knocked out so that the sources of tender are distributed. That's what this whole story is about! But the local elected representatives can decide their own revenue there, on the spot [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What they're using it for. Thank you very much.
u2021-12-01-55	Thank you very much. A proper speech from Congresswoman Anett Bősz will follow. Here you go.
u2021-12-01-56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Government economic policy continues to focus on tax cuts, which Mr. State Secretary said in his exposé. He added that the proposal would not be fair and coherent if local taxes were to be excluded. Mr. Secretary, at first glance, that's a principled sentence. But if we go into the professional details, then we do find factors not only at the level of the municipalities, but at other levels of funding that the Ministry of Finance should be concerned about, because if we are going to increase the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, and if we are going to amend certain tax laws, including the possibility of amending local taxes, you are, in a sense, treating this proposal with the greatest goodwill, I think it is my duty to draw attention to something you probably didn't think of. At least, I'll say it again if I examine this proposal with the utmost goodwill. [[13.20]] I have no doubt about the blocking effect of the guaranteed minimum wage, although the blocking effect of the minimum wage is minimal. I would now like to look at Mr Ritter Imre, a minority advocate, who said that these could have a spill-over effect. I am not questioning this statement, which the Ministry of Finance has not yet brought forward, but let me give you a historical example and a current practical example, which may make it significantly difficult to finance municipalities. In 2017, with a 5 percent reduction in the employer's burden, the minimum wage increased by 15 percent and the guaranteed minimum wage by 25 percent. In both categories, however, a 20% increase today has a different effect, and I say why. In 2017, the blocking effect of the increase resulted in an additional increase of 4 to 4.5 percentage points in the average wage, while today this blocking effect results in an increase of only 2,5 to 3 percentage points. My fellow Member, László Varju, mentioned that if you are given, you should accept it. I think that all progress should have been welcomed, but the figures and the differences that I am talking about are largely due to the release of inflation at the moment, so that due to a significant inflationary impact, wage growth should have moved on a higher base path, whether it is the guaranteed minimum wage or the minimum wage, and, in this sense, the citizens, who are very many of them, have spoken about this, have, unfortunately, very many of our compatriots are forced to live on so little money, unfortunately, because of this 20 percent increase, because of the inflation that has been released. But to move on to the practical example mentioned by my fellow Member Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi in the case of municipalities, the practical example is that the reduction in the tax burden to support the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage is less than the obligation to raise wages. It follows that this is how a question mark is created for the municipalities as a result of this obligation. And the question mark is what I started to start my speech by saying that, at first glance, the local tax reduction in this package is as if it were principled and legitimate, but there is a lack of resources for municipalities when they are trying to increase minimum wage and a guaranteed minimum wage. We have not seen this resource being dealt with globally in any legislative proposal. Dear Secretary of State, I am aware of the discretionary decisions taken by individual municipalities on compensation for municipalities above 25,000 persons, whether we consider the loss of local industrialisation tax revenue or the withdrawal of vehicle tax revenue. This is one of your fellow State Secretarys who, since he is not in the room, I do not want to embarrass him anymore by admitting that discretionary decisions are really out of line. You are referring to order, Mr Secretary of State, that the rules that have been made apply to everyone without exception, this is a fairer system, and all you have asked of the municipalities is to take their own responsibility out of the disease management on the basis of the principle of public burdens. But this has gone so well, Mr. Secretary of State, that I will tell you why I raised this problem. It was almost a year ago, but we still have to wait a few weeks to say that a year ago, as a Christmas gift, 1.4 billion forints arrived on the government-led county-righted city account, thanks to such a discretionary decision. Secretary of State, I would certainly have liked to have been in their place, but I think I would have raised the question of how the other mayors would have taken the increased social costs, the sources of epidemiological measures, or the resources for wage growth, which, in this way, have run out of opportunities for either independent or opposition city leaders. Therefore, I do not consider the tax reduction imposed on the municipalities to be appropriate just because it can generate significant tensions between certain sectors of enterprise and between municipalities. Mr Secretary of State and I look at one of our pro-government fellow Members, who may still be interested in this debate, I have come to know the current government that it does not care at all if it creates social tension with certain decisions. I trust that, from next May, this country will have a government that does care about social tensions; that it cares about local communities; that, by the way, local leaders elected on the basis of democratic principles would like to lead their own city just as the government would like to lead the country, and this whole effort has no colour, honourable Members. This effort is united. The fact that a person comes from the political community of pro-government benches or from the political community of opposition benches cannot determine whether to enjoy certain government resources or not. And if I have started by saying that the proposal seems to be a matter of principle, or the statement by the Minister of State in the Expoze, that this whole package cannot be imagined without reducing local taxes, then I would urge Mr Secretary of State to move a little further away from this whole issue, and leave it as a starting point, because the question does not belong to the legislative proposal before us, that in a country and liberal, believe me, I like companies where the large company pays less than the individual, I think we cannot talk about a fair tax system. I would like to thank you for your attention, and also for responding to my findings outside the legislative proposal. Thank you for listening.
u2021-12-01-57	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Anybody else want to tell me? [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State, as rapporteur, if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State Izer Norbert, you have the floor.
u2021-12-01-58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Members, It was a long debate, and I'm a little surprised. If I had to summarize what was at the heart of the debate, it would be difficult for me to concede, because it is now unclear whether the opposition supports or does not support the proposal. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Doesn't support...]] Despite agreeing with Congressman Nacsa that we are talking about a historic tax reduction, the vast majority of the comments were on what the fellow Members submitted as their own proposal on a tax or similar subject, so the tax reductions contained in the proposal itself were less said than on other points, but I would like to respond to them in particular. In any case, let me state at the very beginning that if this proposal is accepted by the Parliament, either unanimously or with the support of the pro-government factions alone, a tax reduction of 1500 billion will be achieved in 2022. This has not been the case in the history of Hungarian taxation, and I think that we can now contribute to this step. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Fortunately, the economy is in a situation where we can take these steps, and I am trying to highlight why I think this is factual. But then let's start in process, in order of time, and maybe I'll jump a little bit in logic, but I'll try to respond to your representatives' points. First, to the suggestion of Mr Z. Kárpát, which was again not related to the reduction of contributions, but to the other proposals that were put before Parliament, i.e. the reduction of the VAT on baby bottles and other means of raising children. Personally, I have responded to Mr President, like five times, that EU rules do not allow these reductions of VAT, so these products are harmonised at EU level, they cannot be taxed with any other tax rates but with the general rate of taxation. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Rather, we believe that, with the support of families, families should be given resources that allow them to buy the bottle and other tools. VAT cuts are not a miracle weapon, and we have stressed this many times, so I would like to emphasise this again. Also, Mr President, once again for many times, he is setting the example of Romanian states and comparing the level of the Romanian net minimum wage to that of Hungarians. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] [[13.30]] Once again, it's a set-up that is the minimum wage, so to speak, putting it first in the main center or focus, which we don't think is right. Many countries following left-wing tax policies make the minimum wage tax free by means of progressive taxation, as it was before 2010 in Hungary. This is a wrong policy, and I think we've been able to prove in the last ten years that it doesn't work out well if there is a progressive tax system, because then the pay line at the lane lines starts to get busted, everyone officially stops at the minimum wage threshold, and basically puts the lute down and doesn't work anymore, goes black and works black. Therefore, the best example of the approach to be small is the tax exemption of the progressive tax system and the minimum wage, as it does not encourage the individual to achieve additional performance, we punish those who work better, faster and more effectively. I think that this has been demonstrated by the tax policy of the last ten years that, in practice, the single-key tax system is moving forward and growth-friendly. Again, we are looking at the minimum wage in many neighbouring countries, but we always forget to add that in many countries there is only minimum wage. In Hungary, there is a guaranteed minimum wage, which otherwise affects far more people than the minimum wage. So if we compare this level, we're about to get a better picture. The other is a slightly, perhaps also in the context of economic policy, which Mr President has raised. We started from the unsustainable nature of the pension fund, and one argument was, in fact, that we should not reduce the tax so strongly, and the other argument was that the minimum wage was still below the average of the neighbouring countries and that the minimum wage should be increased more. What is very important here is that the minimum wage agreement is an agreement between employers and workers. The government will assist in this agreement, and if the parties can agree, they will practically leave this decision to them. So there is a delicate balance in the economy so that the minimum wage can be managed by businesses. You're the chairman of the Enterprise Development Committee, obviously you've been through this a lot. So there is a very delicate balance if the minimum wage increase continues at a slightly more forced pace to see if the players in the economy will survive. There is a table in front of me, from 2010 onwards we will gradually look at how GDP, labour costs and gross wages have evolved, and it is very nice to see that labour costs and GDP developments have developed hand in hand over the years. In practice, labour costs have increased in line with the performance of the Hungarian economy, so the economy has been able to produce this wage rise dynamic. Gross wage increases a little higher in this figure; this is because we were able to support by reducing taxes that gross wages should be higher, but the labour costs are very well suited to the country's performance. So a sustainable wage rise and a sustainable minimum wage increase are what we do. If we were to do this at a more forced, faster pace, it might be the result of a wave of bankruptcy and dismissal. I think we'd like to avoid that at any rate. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély said, perhaps three times, that employees pay three times as much tax as employers. You know as well as I do that the tax is determined by the paying agent, so the company does the payroll, and the private person is already paid a net wage after tax deduction. So the administration, the collection and collection of the tax are prepared by the company, by the employer, and the individual will see the net wage on his bank account. However, it is very important that there are three elements in the scope of labour-related taxes now. This was 11 taxes in 2010, so 11 taxes were charged, and now there will be three such taxes from 1 January: soya, social security contributions and socho. Let's see how it fits together. It is the third lowest in Europe, so I think it is difficult to blame the government for overtaxing individuals. With 15 percent sja, we are a podium player across the EU. I mean, the social security contributions are 18.5 percent, and that's another answer to a previous question of what's going on with the pension fund. The pension fund is based on the 18.5 percent individual contribution, not the socho. Socho has never been in the method of calculating individual pension contributions, not five years ago or now. Thus, individual contributions are not affected by the government because these are precisely the guarantee elements that will be taken into account in the future calculation of the pension, and therefore, if the individual contribution were to be applied, this could also represent uncertainty in terms of pension expectations. So that's why the government doesn't touch the social security contributions. Perhaps much more, let me say, it could be a more populist step if we reduced taxes on the employee side, but we see that, and the impact assessments that you have missed show that this is a recipe for a good, predictable and long-term sustainable tax reduction and wage increase if we put employers in a position to produce higher wages and are burdened with less and less tax to keep the employee and, where appropriate, to give them higher wages. Congresswoman Bangóné also indicated that left-wing municipalities were distressed. I will get to the bottom of this question later in my comment, but it has also been said here that the minimum wage should be exempt. I think I personally too, but my colleagues have also repeatedly shown that the tax-free minimum wage is a very good campaigning, but in return, it also puts the performance of the economy and private individuals in a position that is the best example of being small. Basically, we're putting a glass ceiling over people, not supporting extra power. It has also been said from the voice of the Member, that the greatest help would otherwise be to reduce VAT. Again, this was a bit of a question of so many areas, but let me remind you that we have taken these steps in the VAT cuts for basic foods. It helps in many places, where this is one of the best ways to whiten the economy, where a low VAT rate is to be kept, but we can see that an extremely expensive way to encourage it, because everyone will benefit from these benefits, and it is not certain that the final consumer price will indicate this tax reduction. Economic truth is that prices for certain products are completely inflexible, there are some where they are flexible, but where they are flexible, they are more flexible upward, so a tax increase is immediately integrated into prices, even in a slightly higher value than a tax increase. Tax reductions are typically not included in prices, which can be absorbed by the intermediary. So we must operate with VAT cuts in a very careful and predictable way, and we do not believe that this is the way to support the population, but rather we believe in wages rising in much higher real terms. Congressman Varju has also indicated the lack of impact assessments and that the autonomy of the municipalities will be removed, then a little later. A very important link is also the way in which the reduction of contributions works in relation to the minimum wage increase. In front of me, Minister of State Banai also briefly summarized that by giving employers a relatively serious tax reduction of more than 20 per cent, we are helping them to extract labour costs, leaving companies with a potential for growth, leaving them with an additional resource to improve competitiveness, which, by the way, will result in higher emissions, higher GDP surplus, so one of the foundations for the country's growth can be helped by keeping this resource with the economic players. They also need to carry out a higher wage increase, as we can see that the employment figures are positively, very positive, so we are getting to the point that the labour market is so tight that the wage increase is practically forced out by the market. Thus, companies must raise wages, and these rising wages will again generate rising consumption, which, by the way, will again mean additional income for companies. If we put together a plan from these macro numbers for 2022, we can see that, according to our current calculations, businesses can expect an increase in turnover of around 10 percent in 2022, so the global turnover of companies will increase by 10 percent here at national level. I think this is a number that will obviously also be able to provide a very serious cover for wage increases. [[13.40]] Mr Csárdi said that the proposal before us is to increase the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. This proposal is not about raising the minimum wage and raising the guaranteed minimum wage. This proposal concerns the related tax reductions, and what Mr Csárdi has also proposed are again not regulated in this bill. And once again he has brought up the method of measuring inflation, where I am once again confirming the contribution of Secretary of State Banai; Eurostat regulates the measurement methodology, and I think that these comments are worth addressing. Congressman Csárdi also indicated that we cannot think in a system. I think that if we are looking for a consistent area, then obviously from the point of view of tax policy, it may be unfortunate to praise our own territory, but that tax policy is principled and consistent, I think it is self-evident. Since 2010, we have been on the same path for tax policy: predictable, predictable and important to be sustainable. So we're doing a sustainable tax reduction, not campaign-like, not election year, a huge tax reduction, but what happened? We have concluded a six-year wage agreement, for example, with employers and employees. So, not a year, six months in advance, but a six-year, predictable, prudent and transparent tax reduction agreement was concluded. The coronal virus epidemic has had relatively serious economic consequences, and despite this, the government was able to complete the agreement originally intended for six years, for about six years. So, despite the fact that the economy practically pushed the satufs and then recovered relatively quickly, we were able to maintain that six-year agenda, and if Parliament voted in favour of the proposal, then the tax reduction set out in the agreement that we had concluded six years ago with the social partners will be implemented from 1 January. Here it is very important to see it, and once again to be predictable, to think about the system, and to say that these were not airborne measures, I would like to refer to the fact that there was a real wage increase condition in this agreement. So the first two tax reductions were practically linked to wage increases, but the next four, so to say, optional, tax reductions were linked to real wage increases, which means that we have taken these tax reductions when the economy has extracted these amounts, i.e. if the real wage increase in the economy has exceeded a certain amount. This is why tax rates did not always fall by 1 January or even by 1 January, but by 1 July, because these conditions were met just so that, when this was achieved, the rate of tax fell from the second quarter after that. So if we are looking for a predictable and systemic area in economic policy, then I think it is tax policy. It has also been said that the increase in wages is not supported by this tax reduction, there is insufficient compensation. Let us not forget, however, that employers have accepted this proposal at the VKF conciliation. I think that the employer's side can represent its own interests very well, and they have calculated it, and we have confirmed with macro numbers that it is, in fact, even I think, generous, so that compensation was more generous than was necessary, but the main goal here was that the government could also comply with its agreement in 2016. So I think there were plenty of companies compensated. One aspect was also the VKF agreement, which led the parties to think about whether the aid should be differentiated or unified. A tax system works well and efficiently if we are able to regulate it in a uniform way, so we have basically always advocated a uniform global reduction of contributions for all, and we do not attach a commando to it that we might look at wages, that we are sure that these tax cuts have passed into wages. The market is going to force this out of you anyway, and no employer can afford to pay the work of its employees. Thus, employers have also accepted this growth. It was a point where there was a debate that SMEs, who are obviously more burdened with the minimum wage increase, needed a different kind of compensation. And here was the proposal that hip reduction, i.e. the reduction of local business tax, should be granted only to SMEs and SMEs below HUF 4 billion in turnover. So, a little ahead of time, in the voice of the Member, the business tax has not been halved, we are talking about a decrease of about 18%, because we have only split the tax in half for SMEs below 4 billion. So when colleagues here are seeing that we have halved the total revenue of the municipalities, the revenue of the business tax, that is not true, because we are talking about 150 billion out of the tax revenue of more than 800 billion. So I think it's very important to change that here. I'd like to move on to Mrs. Potocska's point of view. It was the first time we split or take half of the tax. The tax rate is set in half of a group of taxpayers. By the way, 18 percent of nominal tax revenue is affected by this withdrawal, as you say. However, why not withdrawal, I've prepared some numbers and let me share them with you. In 2019 the local industrialisation tax revenue was HUF 788 billion, i.e. less than HUF 800 billion. The year 2020 came when the economy virtually stopped in the first half of the year, there was a 10 percent decrease, so the local tax revenue for 2020 was over 700 billion. That is why we are saying that it is a crisis-resistant tax, because the impact of the Crown Virus crisis on tax revenues is almost barely felt. And then let's look at 2021, where we halved the taxes on SMEs: HUF 761 billion according to our autumn plans, the tax revenue of 2021, i.e. HUF 50-60 billion more than in 2020, together with the discount for SMEs. So to say that the local government's margin of movement is narrowing, and that we are making their development impossible, and that their autonomy has been completely impaired... they manage virtually HUF 50-60 billion more than in 2020. And in 2022, if Parliament votes in favour of this proposal, so the 1 percent maximum value will remain for SMEs, even if it is still 20-30 billion forints more than this year, and the compensation is added to this, so it is only tax revenue. At the time of compensation, I will not go to the specific figures of Siófok, as the representative answered her own question, but I think it is very important to say that all municipalities received compensation under 25 thousand people, and that compensation was made on a virtually normative basis over 25 thousand people, meaning that the municipalities received compensation either 75% or 100% of the tax capacity. Again, this compensation was not on a party preference basis, but on a normative basis. There is one local government that is very out of line, and that is Budapest. If you look at the country's development, perhaps the best indicator is GDP per capita at purchasing power parities, the national average in 2018 was 71 percent, Budapest 145 percent, and therefore the EU development is 145 percent Budapest. That is why the support opportunities in Budapest are much narrower than in the rest of the country. In the North Great Plain, this figure was 46 percent in 2018. So I think it is a good and right decision to try to improve the economy in rural Hungary in the first place, as well as to increase the room for manoeuvre of local authorities through compensation. Congresswoman Potocsány also indicated how businesses will adapt. I look more out of businesses than that, and I hope that this is not the naivety, but it is the experience and the numbers that tell me, because during the Crown Virus crisis, we have also looked at online cash register data on a daily basis, we have looked at wage mass data, we have looked at the data of people working part-time, and we have also looked at sick pay data, for example. So we saw everything about the response of economic operators to the crisis, and it was clear that, for example, a lot of people went on sick leave during the coronal virus period, and the share of part-time workers also increased, for example, thanks to Kurzarbeit and tax cuts. That's exactly what we wanted to encourage companies to react to the virus, not with dismissal, but with part-time work. However, that part-time work went back nicely to the pre-crisis situation, so we are back to where we were before the crisis. Part-time was a temporary solution on the part of businesses, and a perfectly legal and legitimate solution, because many people solved, let's say, the fewer contacts in the offices were roused by the teams and asked not to be more than 20-30 percent at the same time in the same office. By the way, this could often be achieved by part - time work. [[13.50]] And it has also been said here that it is clear why the municipalities are playing a role in this. In the VKF debate, when the two players agreed on minimum wage and the government mediated this debate, it was also said why this consultation was at the expense or expense of the municipalities. We also indicated at the conciliation that, in view of the experience, the compensation was practically complete. The central budget was the burden of this, so practically the central budget was also the burden of maximising the local tax by 1%. Another link, which is important again, and I think it is also a very important link, is that the local business tax is a tax on a wide tax base, including labour costs, which is part of this tax base, since some items can be deducted from turnover, but not, for example, labour costs. So the local business tax is also a tax on wages, so when we give SMEs a 1 percentage point reduction, it exactly helps their wages by 1 percentage point. Therefore, this tax reduction is included as a separate point in the VKF agreement, which is one percentage point reduction for labour costs and for a larger circle. And by the way, this tax reduction of 1 percentage point was the difference between employers and employees, so that we were able to patch up the difference so that the parties could agree on the minimum wage. Once again, even if it is a bit distraught, I would refer back to why the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage cannot be separated from the performance of the economy. As we have seen, in the previous years, they went hand in hand, but there is another important connection that we are trying to fix these wage elements for the average wage. During the previous period, during the pre-coronal virus epidemic, there was a healthy balance in proportion to the average wage of the guaranteed minimum wage and the minimum wage, but in the period of the Crown Virus crisis, the minimum wage increase was indeed lower than the previous trends. However, we are putting ourselves in the position of employers who have been faced with virtually shutting down the economy, and they did not even know that they could keep the workers. And let us also imagine the situation of workers, who once again did not know what this coronal virus epidemic would bring. In this situation, a modest, cautious minimum wage increase, I think, was perhaps the logical decision in 2020, so it was not the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in line with the increase in average wage. However, when the grey clouds have passed over the top of the Hungarian economy, this situation will be resolved, and from 1 January we will probably be able to hold back to the standard where we were until 2018, so we will maintain a healthy ratio compared to the average wage. In the negotiations, it was also expressed as a future intention that the parties would continue to try to agree on minimum wage increases linked to the average wage level. So the future goal is to maintain this minimum wage and guaranteed wage increase following the average wage. That's the last question. Congresswoman Anett Bősz also said that these tax reductions are dealt with in packages with hip reduction and the contraction of municipal resources. I am pleased that you see this proposal as logical and in line with the system, and I hope that I have been able to confirm this once again why this was an integral part of this package. However, it is very important that the scope of the municipalities, as I mentioned earlier, is not narrowed. Therefore, some cities could be highlighted here, but perhaps the best example is what I have just said, that all local tax revenues will grow brutally, despite the 1 percent reduction, because businesses will generate more than 10 percent of their turnover in 2020. So the performance of the Hungarian economy: we are at the forefront of the EU in terms of speed of catching up, we are in a beating position for economic growth, so I think that businesses are facing a prosperous 2022. However, if the turnover increases, the companies are doing well, the biggest winner of this is the local government sector, because business tax revenue is one of the same as the company's growth in turnover. So I'm not afraid that the municipalities are going to be in a difficult situation. I think, once again, referring to the expo, it is a fair and taxatically correct consideration if we believe in a tax reduction mechanism, and we think that this will support economic growth. Then it would really be dissonant for companies to face a local tax increase. I don't think that's a good thing about getting out of a coronal virus epidemic. Thank you very much for your comments, and I would like to ask you to support the proposal, if possible. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-01-59	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the proposals will be submitted on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, The report and the report of the Hungarian National Bank for the year 2020 and the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision on its adoption will follow. Report submitted by the Hungarian National Bank B/16079. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Economic Committee, H/17503. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr György Matolcsy, President of the Hungarian National Bank, author of the report, who will make his presentation on the pulpit. Mr. President, please.
u2021-12-01-60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, A detailed annual report on the management and operation of the Hungarian National Bank in 2020 is available to all. Mr President, allow me, therefore, to recall the most important findings of the report, and to add a few comments and thoughts to the year 2021 in this regard, even towards the end, and to give a little look-out from 2022. Dear House, There is no doubt that the year 2020 was the year of crisis management. The biggest result of the crisis management of the year 2020 was that we defended the results of the previous decade, and the central bank actions coordinated with the government established the restoration of Hungary this year and next year. It's not underestimated, and there's a lot coming from this. The extent to which the results of the previous achievements, the protection of the decade and the exit from the crisis are not underestimated, shows that we have experienced many crises over the last hundred years or during the nearly 100 years of operation of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank. We have a clear experience: when the central bank actively entered the crisis management, the country's crisis management was successful; when it was passive, it stayed away from crisis management, the government alone was not able to handle the crisis well. In the early 1920s, the crisis of Trianon, as it brought the nation into crisis, was solved by successful financial consolidation between 1924-27, in which Prime Minister István Bethlen and President of the Central Bank of Sándor Popovics played a lion role, the then government and the recent central bank, which, in 1924 was founded, managed the crisis together. As far as we could, we repeated this in 1929-33. And the fact that crisis management was more successful shows that in 1936 we had achieved the best comparable results in Europe for the last hundred years, i.e. after the 100 years of Trianon, 86 percent of the current EU Member States' results and levels of development. [[14.00]] Similarly, after the collapse of the new forint in 1945, the new national currency with the active participation of the central bank and, of course, the government's governance also managed the crisis successfully. It wasn't always like that. The crisis in 2008-09 was already accompanied by a passive central bank, and from 2013 we were only able to reconnect the Hungarian National Bank with the various economic difficulties. So, if the central bank is active, there is a successful crisis management, which is proven by the year 2020;,, 21; and hopefully by the year, 22 as well. Mr President, Dear House, The years 2020 and 21 were twin years. We have had a complex crisis, and I think that all of its elements, i.e. the component of the health crisis caused by the coronal virus, the part of the social-Community crisis, the threatening crisis in the labour market, which we have preceded, and the other crises that have raised its head in other areas, have been successfully dealt with. However, it is very important to highlight where there was no crisis. The crisis in the Hungarian financial system did not arise. So, as opposed to the crisis in 2008-2009, the crisis management period, but it also lasted until 2013, there was no financial crisis now. This is due to the fact that the government, the central bank, the banking system, the financial system and the business sector together, including families, knew what was at stake. We did what we had to do actively to prevent another element from getting involved in the otherwise complex crisis, and this is the financial crisis. There was no financial crisis. It was not, and, of course, the exit from the crisis even strengthens this situation. (Attila Móring József in the notary seat) Dr. András Aradski, Dr. Csabat Gyüre Replaced by Dr. Adam Steinmetz.) Why were we able to succeed in the success years of the crisis and crisis management in 2020-21? I think that the previous decade is a crucial element in this, because we have won the previous decade, based on a sound foundation, a strong immune system, a Hungarian economy and society, which has confirmed and supported the joint steps of the government, central bank, banking and business sector. If the starting point had been the same as in the crisis management in the period 2009-2010, so if crisis management had started on the basis of wasted years after 2002, we would have shown a different picture. It is therefore very important that the crisis and crisis management of 2020-21 was built on a strong, good basis. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Hungarian National Bank immediately put together a coordinated, complex crisis management and monetary policy package for the crisis that took place in the spring of 2020. Everyone knows the elements of this. Allow me to recall that these are crucial areas of central bank operations in 2020. It was like this that the central bank decided on further interest cuts, from two to 0.6 percent of the base rate. This supported crisis management. This was the decision of the Monetary Council to accept large corporate loans worth HUF 2600 billion, thus stabilising the financial situation of large companies. It was like this that we brought back, revived our very successful growth loan program, named Hajra, and helped micro, small and medium-sized enterprises survive for some HUF 3000 billion. The success of the programme is precisely indicated by the fact that this year the corporate sector has increased its credit portfolio by 14 percent, and I think that the growth in credit in households and companies as a whole shows precisely that the financial system has remained strong. The growth credit programme has played a crucial role in this. There was a secret, a key behind the success of the NHP Hajra, and this is that we opened up basically everything the micro, small and medium-sized companies needed. So we opened it up for loan redemption, opened it up for new investments, opened it up for working capital financing, and opened it up to pay in the framework of current asset financing. So one of the most powerful tools of survival was the,, Growth Credit Program. The other government-led loan schemes and interest-rate schemes worked very well with the Hungarian National Bank. Mr President, With the growth bond programme, we supported the majority of those which were strong, mostly large companies, which financed partly investment and partly new investment targets. So as we dealt with the crisis, we opened the gates, sometimes just windows, but also gates, roads to the future. The Hungarian National Bank paid a total dividend of HUF 200-250 billion in two years. I think that this too, if only modestly, could help the budget in crisis management. Together, they reported that the Hungarian National Bank, the Hungarian Central Bank, has undertaken the task of taking part in crisis management with significant amounts. By September 2021, the Hungarian central bank took part in managing the crisis and financing the recovery from the crisis by HUF 11 000 billion. This is an unprecedented amount for the last hundred years and an unprecedented amount in the crisis management financing structure within the European Union. By doing so, we agreed that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's balance sheet went from 26 per cent of the initial gross domestic product in 2019 to 43 per cent, and we were able to do so because we narrowed our balance sheet during the period 2013-2020. Once again, we find that if the funds are good, if the good government and monetary policy of the previous period has strengthened the economy and the economy's immune system, it is possible to take on courageous and necessary programmes, there is no need to fear that a high central bank balance of strong GDP would be created which would already jeopardise financial stability. There is a very serious link between what we have done yesterday and what we can do today and what we can do today and what we can do in the future. You have to rely on a solid basis. Ladies and Gentlemen, Domestic crisis management was in any case credit-based in 2020, but also in 21. It was a credit-based crisis management. All the players in the economy took credit to survive the shocks. However, the basis of the credit is actually something else, we call it trust. Those who trust in the future, trust in the operation shown by a country, so we have actually carried out a confidence-oriented crisis management. The year 2020 I think is also very well reflected in the number that, although Hungary has been hit significantly, since the loss of 4,7 percent of GDP is serious, for example, it was bigger in 2009 or 1991-92, but this is a serious hit. However, the average decline in the European Union was higher, 6.4 percent. So here we can already see that a targeted, effective crisis management shows better results than in many places elsewhere in Europe, including the European Union. [[14.10]] One of the most important elements of the year 2020 was that crisis management did not involve a rise in inflation; average inflation was 3.3 percent. As of 2017, inflation developed in close proximity to the 3-percent inflation target in the Hungarian National Bank's inflation target system, or on an annual average, at exactly 3 per cent or 2.9 per cent. This was true by 2020, not by 2021, and I am afraid that by 2022 either, but the crisis and crisis management measures, such as the central bank programmes, have not caused inflation in the Hungarian economy. The operation of the government, the Hungarian National Bank and the banking system together with the decisions of the business sector leaders, especially managers, protected the labour market from collapse, prevented them from turning back the very strong, very good labour market results of the previous decade. Of course, unemployment went up to 5 percent, at the bottom of the crisis was higher than the previous 3.3 percent unemployment rate, but we saw that this year, once again, the successful crisis management has reduced to around 4 percent. Crisis management, crisis and crisis management have, of course, come at a price in many areas. One of the prices was a 7 per cent decrease in investment, so in 2020 we found that one of the strong hits of the crisis had reached investment, and we hope that this will no longer be the case in 2021-22. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to briefly address the expected results of the central bank operation of 2021. There is no doubt that Hungary has restarted, and by the end of the second quarter of this year we have reached the end of 2019 performance level. This is a good result, we are among the first ten EU Member States; and a good result, to be appreciated, in view of the fact that we are in 21th place in the area of per capita development; according to competitiveness, according to the measurement of 95-97 percent of the Hungarian National Bank, we are in 18th place; in the 2020 crisis management we are in 15-16th place; but this year we are in 10th place, we will see the final result. So our performance is improving, and our crisis management performance is far better than our per capita development or our competitiveness. This indicates, I think, crystal clear, that development and competitiveness can be improved in the same way as crisis management, where we once again came up to the 10th place from 15-16th place. There is no doubt, however, that the cost of relaunching the economy and recovering from the crisis is serious in 2021, and this is the return of inflation. Inflation is a public enemy for everyone, especially the central banks, including the Hungarian National Bank, because we have one anchor in monetary policy decisions, this is the forecast inflation figure in the medium-term, five to eight quarterly bands. The rise in inflation is not a Hungarian phenomenon, we are also sensitive to Hungary, but it is a global phenomenon. The reasons are pretty much the same. The coronal virus itself, the effect of a new wave of the virus itself, the recovery, the rebooting is a tight period almost everywhere, and its inflationary effects are quite strong. If we look at Hungary, it is not only the external global financial crisis that occurred in Hungary in 2008-2009, but also the internal crisis of post-2002 economic policy, well, we came out of that crisis in six and a half years. Now we come out of the 2020 coronal virus strike, the crisis, in a year and a half, we came out, so we rebooted in a much shorter time. This is not the case everywhere, not in all EU Member States, because we are in the first ten, it will be slightly slower than the others: some are only reaching the end-of-2019 emission level by the second half of 2022, but, in any case, a quick, concentrated recovery from the crisis and a reboot will have a strengthening effect. That's true everywhere in America, that's true in Germany. For 30 years, unprecedented inflation figures have appeared all over the world. We know the figures, there are inflation figures of around 6 per cent in September, October in Europe, Germany, America, and this is not only due to the emergence of the coronal virus itself or from the waves of the virus, but also to the reorganization of the global economy and the global economy. Supply chains, production chains are breaking up, transport costs have increased seven times in Europe; there is a lack of chips; everyone can hear, see, read, everything we read, and the surprise of the new decade, the inflationary effect. Everything goes into the same basket, the lack of chips, the transport costs, by the way, the additional funding source of the central bank's programmes, and it creates a strong wave of inflation. In Hungary, the Hungarian central bank, I think, first in December 2020 and then in March 2021, warned that inflácó was coming. In fact, for the first time in the European Union, in June 2020, we started the interest rate increase cycle that we have continued since then, and I confirm all of our previous communications and decisions: the Hungarian National Bank will continue to tighten monetary policy conditions until we feel, see, we cannot count on inflation being close to our medium-term objective, 3 percent, plus or minus 1 percent, but 3 percent. This means that the monetary policy tightening cycle of the Hungarian National Bank will continue not only in 2021 but also in 22nd, including the interest rate increase cycle. Indeed, inflation is a public enemy, not only harming our mood and adamaging our wallets, but making every business and investment decision without exception unsettling. How can an investment calculation be made for five years in advance, if this is the inflation environment? We need to break inflation as quickly as possible. The Hungarian National Bank expects inflation to be around 5% this year and next year. There's a band we can predict next year, it's 4.7-5.1 percent, but based on the known uncertainties, I have to say that the wording around 5 percent is the most accurate. [[14.20]] That means three things at once, I think. Five percent is more than three. Therefore, the Hungarian National Bank must continue to tighten monetary policy conditions. Another indication is that by 2021-22 we will see a higher inflation rate, and by the fourth quarter of 2022 we expect the forecasts to show that inflation in Hungary will return to the target band of the Hungarian National Bank. So, contrary to the decade of 70, which has been essentially a decade of inflation, this must be concentrated for a few years, including two years, in 2021-22, as a result of the many, many, many shocks, surprises and inflationary factors. This is not good news, but it is good news from the point of view that we do not need to fear inflation all over the decade. And there is another third message to this year's inflation forecast and next year's inflation forecast of around 5 percent: it is not passing inflation, it is not runaway, it is not something that can't be handled. In the 70s, but even in the inflation phase thirty years ago, there was often such a dilemma as to how long it would last. And it took a long time. Now it's taking longer than we originally hoped, we expected, but according to all forecasts, it's not going to take the whole decade, and it's not going to be a two-digit inflation. I believe that these are forecasts that will make both inflation and inflation monetary policy manageable. Mr President, Although inflation is a mysterious and very complex thing, in the post-2017 phase, in addition to Austria, Hungary alone, the Hungarian central bank, achieved its inflation goal, the other EU central banks did not. This also belongs to the foundations, we had strong monetary policy foundations. Well, in the whole phase after 2017, inflation in Hungary has an external impact of about 80 percent. Imported inflation. There are not few 20 percent, but there is a difference of magnitude between external and internal inflation factors. This is typical for the whole period after 2017. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The change in monetary policy, which started in June 2020, is not just the base rate increase cycle. We have activated a new device or old device providing flexibility: this one-week deposit. As you have seen, ladies and gentlemen of Congress, we have received a significant sum of HUF 7,700 billion in the last week's deposit. So the Hungarian National Bank is following a monetary policy in the Hungarian economy, which emerges from the crisis, in the face of a strong threat to inflation, which is both predictable and flexible. Many central banks are still in the world to deny inflation in addition to the virus and vaccination. No! In fact, he'll probably stay on a slightly higher course even in 2022 than we'd like. It is very important that the central bank that faces inflation and does not deny it wins, and the central bank that first, among the first, launches the fight against inflation, or that is able to use a fusion tool that is partly predictable, is the monthly base rate increase cycle or flexible, and this is the instrument of a one-week deposit. It is not enough to have a base rate or a one-week deposit, so the Hungarian National Bank first reduced it, and it will soon close its sovereign debt purchase programme. The management tool of the "Renewal Loan" programme has been introduced after the framework has been closed, and we are also reviewing the growth bond programme, despite the fact that it is mainly a loan programme that supports investment and investment, but we need to look at it in the light of the risk of the bond programme in terms of our inflation struggle. On behalf of the management of the Hungarian National Bank, I thank the Parliament, the representative ladies and gentlemen for giving the green mandatorium in Europe for the first time, and one of the first in the world to the Hungarian National Bank, and I think that through this we can successfully and effectively support Hungary's sustainability and green transition. This may not be the first, but one of the most popular new swallows of this is the Green Home program. Mr President, Thank you so much for the opportunity. I therefore consider the operation and management of the National Bank of Hungary in 2020 to be effective, all three mandates have been fulfilled, we have protected the results of the past, and we have created good foundations for the recovery of 2021-22 and the return to the catch-up path. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-01-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, rapporteur for the Committee on Economic Affairs, Member; he is the author of the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
u2021-12-01-62	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear President of the Bank, As we got used to it from Mr.György Matolcsy, and we are looking forward to it, he has put the report on the year 2020 of the Central Bank in a very broad and profound context. It would be worth talking about this in Parliament, even in larger chapters, but let me present a slightly more dry Commission report here before the Parliament as rapporteur on the document submitted. It is well known that Parliament is present not only as a legislator in the Hungarian public law system, but also has a controlling role. In this capacity, in addition to the government's operations, it controls several independent entities, including the National Bank and its functioning, as shown in today's agenda item. According to the law, the National Bank is obliged to report to Parliament every year on its activities, and the National Bank has, of course, fulfilled this obligation. Within the Hungarian Parliament, the Economic Committee, as the competent committee responsible for the task and responsibility, discussed the National Bank's business report and report for the year 2020 and listened to the President's oral information. The Committee has decided to submit to the National Assembly, as reported by the National Bank, H/17503. a proposal for a decision on which the National Assembly shall evaluate the activities of the Central Bank in the previous year. The Committee noted that the National Bank's business report and accounts for the year 2020 comply with the legal requirements and provide a thorough and detailed account of the tasks, monetary policy and supervisory activities of the National Bank. [[14.30]] The report also provides exhaustive information on the financial intermediary system and on the safe functioning of payment and securities settlement systems. The report shall also include the audited balance sheet and the profit and loss account of the National Bank and the related additional annexes. Dear House, With regard to the report of the Hungarian National Bank in 2020, it is important to mention that from March 2013 the National Bank managed effectively and profitablely every year, including in 2020. With regard to financial stability and the promotion of economic growth, inflation already applies to the year 2020 on a continuous basis in the previous years, and the measures taken by the National Bank have also helped to preserve the stability and long-term financial stability of the banking system. Furthermore, the measures taken have contributed to maintaining financial stability and to maintaining favourable lending processes in the banking system, while the National Bank has been at the forefront of a number of measures to mitigate the negative economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic. Here, too, the President mentioned a great deal of these, and perhaps the figure that the central bank provided nearly HUF 5000 billion of new resources indirectly or indirectly to the Hungarian economy. The report also shows that the National Bank managed effectively because it fulfilled all three of its statutory mandates in 2020. It fulfilled its mandate for price stability, since annual average inflation was 3.3 percent, except for the first months of the year, it was within the central bank tolerance band. The National Bank remains one of the few central banks that continuously fulfilled its primary objective of maintaining price stability during the period prior to the outbreak of the Crown Virus. It is also important to note that, in the first half of 2020, the central bank asset pool has undergone a major transformation, whereby the MNB has abolished the announcement of the target bank liquidity band to be squeezed out of the underlying interest rate assets, extended the coverage with large corporate loans and abolished the penalty for non-compliance with the minimum reserve, and introduced a new hedge loan instrument focusing on one week of deposits and three- and five-year maturity. With the new measures, the MNB has provided the necessary liquidity in a targeted and flexible manner in the sub-markets that are important for monetary policy and has developed appropriate monetary conditions. During March and April 2020, the MNB launched the,, growth loan programme Hajrá, and the growth bond programme to compensate for the economic impact of the epidemic, which successfully prevented the dehydration of the domestic credit market and the inability to finance the corporate sector. On the proposal and initiative of the central bank, the government introduced or extended the moratorium on credit repayments. During 2020, the central bank supported the maintenance of the stability of the domestic sovereign debt market by more than HUF 2000 billion through its long-term hedge loan facility and its sovereign debt purchase programme, and also contributed HUF 250 billion in dividends to cover the significantly increased budget expenditure due to crisis management. In order to alleviate the negative economic impact of the epidemic, in April 20, the new construction, adapted to the changed financing needs of businesses, started to provide funds to more than 23 thousand small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, with an amount of HUF 1600 billion. In the autumn of 2020, the MNB increased the funding to HUF 2500 billion in view of the considerable stress and the prolonged epidemic situation, under the NHP Fix scheme, credit institutions concluded a loan and leasing contract of HUF 564 billion until the end of May 2020. Recognizing that stable and long-term sustainable economic growth requires a sustainable financial system, in 2020, the central bank launched a number of forward-looking green financial initiatives mentioned at the end of the President's speech. Of these, the regulation encouraging green bank financing with a capital requirement reduction is highlighted. Dear Parliament, The National Bank, in cooperation with the Hungarian Government, has handled the complex economic crisis we have seen so far correctly and well, in our opinion. The complex crisis has obviously been associated with a health, epidemiological crisis and the economic and partly economic psychology crisis that is affecting it. In our view, the National Bank has been effectively shaping Hungary's economic policy since March 2013 and cooperating effectively with the Hungarian government. I would refer back to the President's accounts, where he indicated that when the cooperation between the government and the central bank was effective and good, there was basically crisis management in Hungarian economic history that could be called successful or more successful. I can say on behalf of the Economic Committee and myself that the Central Bank did well in the tasks entrusted to it in 2020 and contributed effectively, in cooperation with the government, to the expansion of Hungary's economy. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, we have also looked at the year 2020 on a broader basis on a number of issues, which is perhaps classic, namely the 21st century. As one of the biggest crises of the century, he will surely go into economic history. As such, a good example of how Hungary could relate to the global economic crisis in 2020 and how it could come out of it. I would really like to confirm here, at the end of my speech, that the majority of the Economic Commission's opinion was, as I believe, that unfortunately we have seen several economic crises and many kinds of economic crisis management in Hungary. From this point of view, the formula is simple: in the light of the figures, it can be said that there has been bad economic crisis management, unfortunately, but it is clearly linked to left-wing crisis management. This is true even for the 2006-09 economic crisis, but even for the economic crises at the end of the last century, when, in addition to central bank passivity, the government reacted with tax increases and austerity to an economic crisis at that time. We can see a different, right-wing, national conservative crisis management, where, on the contrary, the government has reacted to these challenges by running ahead, reducing taxes, reducing burdens, maintaining the standard of living of economic processes and the population. It can also be seen from the figures that this shows a much more effective, faster crisis management in terms of output from crisis management at the moment. We are not yet well aware of all the effects of the global economic crisis, see inflation as one of them. But going back to the subject, the 2020 National Banking Report, it can be established and on this basis I will ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of this report, that the National Bank continued the best crisis management in 2020 compared to its potential in a difficult economic year at the global economy level and subsequently at the Hungarian level, and, in view of that, I would like to ask the Parliament to support the report. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-01-63	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present a position during the debate. A five-minute technical break will be scheduled before the keynote speeches. (Sunning: 14.39 14.50 President: Dr. István Hiller Notes: Dr. András Aradski and Dr. Adam Steinmetz)
u2021-12-01-64	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Mainnote speakers will be held. First, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Sándor Hadházy, may speak. Here you go.
u2021-12-01-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My colleague Kristóf Szathmáry, who was before me, has already made a thorough presentation of the position of the Economic Committee on the report and report of the Hungarian National Bank for the year 2020. In my keynote speech, allow me to highlight some important points in the report. Firstly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that one of the most important tasks of the Hungarian National Bank is to help the government operate and to support its economic policy. The year 2020 was characterised by the protection and economic re-launch of the Crown Virus pandemic. Dear Parliament, The measures of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank helped to preserve the stability and long-term funding of the banking system. The measures taken have contributed to maintaining financial stability and to maintaining favourable lending processes in the banking system. In addition, the Hungarian National Bank was at the forefront of several measures to mitigate the negative economic effects caused by the coronal virus epidemic. Since the outbreak, the MNB has provided nearly HUF 11 000 billion of new resources to the Hungarian economy. The year 2020 brought extraordinary difficulties and challenges and interrupted favourable growth trends in previous years. At the same time, the Hungarian government and the Hungarian National Bank have successfully defended themselves against the economic consequences of the epidemic. Due to the early re-opening and the supportive economic environment, Hungary's GDP reached its pre-crisis level in the second quarter of 2021, so domestic GDP worked down in practically a year and a half, compared to the last financial crisis in 2008-2009, when it took six and a half years. Dear Parliament, Successful defense was based on three pillars. The first is that Hungary was faced with stable fundamentals and a strong starting economic situation. The economic policy followed over the last decade maintained Hungary's macroeconomic balance and reduced its external and internal vulnerability. Secondly, the post-2013 steps have successfully established the stability of the domestic financial system. The shock-resistant capacity of the banking system has steadily increased, while its lending activity in support of the real economy has expanded in a healthy structure. The measures taken in recent years have also significantly reduced the vulnerability of domestic actors and Hungary. Thirdly, on the arrival of the epidemic, the Hungarian National Bank decided on a series of rapid, coordinated and targeted steps. Central bank measures have helped stabilise domestic money market processes and support the relaunch of sustainable economic growth. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank has used significant forces to alleviate the damage caused by the epidemic and restore the economy. Without the need for completeness, I'll list a few. The balance of crisis management in 2020: we have maintained our favourable position in the previous decade and we can continue to catch up at a good place in the next decade. In the first half of 2020, the central bank's assets were significantly modified, during which the Magyar Nemzeti Bank significantly expanded and made its assets both credit and deposit-sided more flexible. In addition, with the following indirect measures, the MNB significantly increased the liquidity potentially available by banks by HUF 6,000 billion; the extension of the hedge with large corporate loans, the exemption of banks from the legal consequences of non-compliance with the reserve obligation and the announcement of a long loan facility on favourable terms. The measures involved a significant increase in the central bank balance. By the end of 2020, the balance sheet of the Bank for GDP increased from 26 per cent of the previous year to 43%. This was possible because the size of the central bank balance was reduced in the years before 2020, creating an adequate intervention potential to address economic challenges in a lasting manner. The expansion of the balance sheet reflects the combined application of several targeted programmes. The MNB has launched a growth loan programme to help finance the SME sector, with more than 40 thousand Hungarian businesses receiving a total of HUF 3000 billion in funding. In addition, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank provides long-term alternative financing opportunities for larger companies under a growth bond programme, available under favourable conditions. As a result of successful bond issuance, the participating companies have been able to raise nearly HUF 1000 billion in resources so far. With the help of the sovereign debt purchase programme, the Hungarian National Bank maintained the stable liquidity position of the sovereign debt market and ensured the effective functioning of monetary policy. In the framework of the programme, the central bank has so far made more than HUF 3400 billion in purchases, through which it has also significantly reduced interest expenditure on the budget. With its covered loan facility, the Hungarian National Bank provided over HUF 2600 billion of long-term, stable funding to the Hungarian banking system. The MNB supported the functioning of the financial markets by launching mortgage bond purchase programmes. So far, the central bank has secured the stable liquidity and efficient functioning of the relevant markets by purchasing HUF 300 billion of mortgage bonds. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian National Bank fulfilled its legal tasks last year, fulfilled its expectations and objectives, and successfully carried out its activities in the interest of the Hungarian people. On behalf of the Fidesz fraction, I would like to thank President György Matolcsy and the staff of the Hungarian National Bank for their successful and cooperative activities and for their continued effective and persistent work. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2021-12-01-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpat, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-12-01-67	Mr President, Dear House, I would have started my speech initially with some excuse, as we are in a very difficult position not by the MNB, but rather by the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, because here we would be discussing a package of 2020 and a Paksameta in principle, but President Matolcsy himself refused to do so and indicated that he would also discuss the analysis of the latest contemporary processes in his speech, so it is clear that if we are thinking not only in a closed term, we are looking at a flow chart. I would also like to express my appreciation to Mr President, who, perhaps at the highest level, dares to criticize the operation of the Orbán government in a very massive manner, and we wish him courage to do so further. I consider that he has gone up to the wall on this issue, so obviously there is some kind of consensual mode working on how far President Matolcsy can go with the criticism, but his criticism also meets with our system criticism. It would warm our hearts even more if Mr President once stayed here and took part in the debate. We obviously respect your Vice-Presidents, your deputies, and we appreciate your professional work, but Mr President is irreplaceable in certain questions, even if we very much disagree with him on other issues. [[15.00]] Obviously, the 3 percent inflation figures of the report for 2020 can now be seen with such a historical euphemism, and it is quite clear that it is almost unnecessary to carry out this analysis in the light of the indicators of the present time, but we also see that the most interesting debate in this whole story is that between the two very important people of Viktor Orbán. Obviously, when Mihály Varga and President Matolcsy criticize each other and send a public message in the press, we may encounter some system flaws, as it is not quite common in Fidesz-KDNP's mode that senior leaders make criticism, sue in public, carry out a kind of catfight. Anyone who knows the world of Fidesz-KDNP knows perfectly well that a very well-coordinated, always one-blowing Bolshevik lie factory mixes with the fully feudal architecture and vulnerability system of Hungary in the countryside. It is therefore very strange for us opponents to hear these voices within this framework. But when György Matolcsy advises the government to cancel unnecessary large investment, he meets fully with the comments that we usually make. I would like to address to the MNB that you yourself could help stop the big investment: the renovation and renovation of the MNB headquarters of 55 billion is not necessarily one of the tasks to be performed immediately. Obviously, this is debateable. The MNB, I assume, has its own arguments as to why this is necessary now, but do not tell foreign exchange credentials in a public, multi-participant forum, since we continue to write criticisms against the MNB, from the moment it tried to take part in the resolution of the foreign exchange crisis, more precisely, what it did later would be worth an ode. We also have to say that there has been a question for years, and it is not necessarily only for the MNB to address it correctly. The entire foreign exchange crisis management, we have heard twice today at two agendas how well the government has done here, how much it has helped. Here, you can imagine a great quotation mark for the help, because this is the logic of the matter. The Government of Hungary has completely failed the banking system, when, unlike the practices of the neighbouring countries, it did not convert these so-called loans to the exchange rate at the time of admission, but essentially forinted them at the market rate. The MNB, right, put a helping hand on that. During the years of this flow chart, he made a very significant profit and profit by converting foreign currency credits to foreign exchange creditors themselves, and we then suggested that you set up a compensation fund to which the MNB has come to attract this huge amount of wealth as a profit, and where appropriate, it is possible to help the most difficult foreign exchange players in their situation. I have been very pleased in recent years when several times, as a dividend, the quoted profit that the MNB has made has been made. A previous German practice is very sympathetic to us, so do not be selective and not optional, but be mandatory every year. Obviously, it's not the MNB's responsibility, it's not the MNB's law itself, I'm addressing it to the government, but we need to share it with you for the full picture. What we have seen, however, is that the government's forints on the market are completely slumped in front of the banks concerned. Those who took credit at HUF 160-165 should not have been HUF 256, especially in the light of the cowardly attempt by the government to pin it on the Mansion. What have our fellow Members said here in the explanatory statement? That the Curia gave it to you, even if it wasn't an order, but he set out the frames within which the forinting should be carried out. There are two problems. In the Curia's legal units, the exchange rate of forints has not been said if they do, then disprove me, and the other problem is clearly that with the final repayment you have moved out of this framework of your own. So, when selectively, some Hungarian citizens were able to convert at HUF 180, while others, and those who were not so fortunate, remained the HUF 256, on the one hand they moved out of the implied framework and on the other hand they were unfairly selected between Hungarian citizens and Hungarian citizens. We see the MNB's responsibility here in the fact that this profit on foreign exchange has landed on him to a large extent, but this has not been re-channeled, and we can't see any trace of it. We will say this every year when there will be only reports on the MNB. I know that many times since then the vice-presidents have changed, as well as the co-workers, but it's system criticism, and we can't ignore that, and we don't want to. However, with regard to their current criticism, we are still waiting for the MNB to list, in particular, which investments it would recommend to postpone or stop. So we would very much like some forum to have an answer during the day about which entirely legitimate Matolcsy criticism was for investments, what they would stop, what they would reschedule. Obviously, we may even include the renovation of the MNB headquarters, as this may also be a discussionable area. We see that once again, there are periods of debate and meeting here in Parliament. When my fellow Member Nacsa spoke on the previous agendas, it was around the Rákosi era, because the, who is not with us, is constantly showing up against us. His partner is a lot of Fidesz MEPs, but I'm closer to the Róna Péter view that in a normal world, it's perfectly natural that there's a conflict between the central bank and the Ministry of Finance. This is typically due to the fact that these organisations have a completely different task, and it can bring progress forward if these productive debates are conducted. That is why I encourage President Matolcsy to debate with Mihal Varga, to round this whole story down, to determine where the brakes that are holding back Hungarian economic development are now, and I would even more like to see where the social safety net that has been broken down further over the past ten years along a chemically cruel economic policy can start to grow back. Not only do you have the responsibility, in the previous eras it was possible to do the same, but let us not argue that, let us say, ten thousand evictions can be attributed to this government. It is an even greater shame for a KDNP representative who had to take part in this, and he had to assist in this whole process. It can't be good to sleep like this. Once again, in a normal world, these debates are completely natural. What hurts us more is that these production reports concerning economic numbers are both meaningful and not. They are obviously able to express a dynamic in terms of economic development, but many things cannot be measured, neither can GDP be fetishized, as these indicators do not always measure the degree of corruption, the degree of freedom of the press and the degree of freedom of speech. If you look at it, my fellow Members, Hungary is also behind exotic countries on the list of freedom of the press. We're in the vicinity of the hundredth place in a pretty rough way, and what you call public media here, and you're financing taxpayers' money, you're doing everything you can, but you're not providing public information. A real Bolshevik, commie lie factory, against which we won hundreds of lawsuits, while our lawsuits on the opposite side are far from so numerous. That's not a coincidence at all. We also see that the MNB's task would be to account for what we have on the government many times, and it is very funny to hear it when the government declares that it does not have an exchange rate goal, and that the conscious and joint deterioration of the forint is actually something outside of it, but the government makes the rules for the MNB. What we see here is that maintaining and maintaining price stability is a clear objective. So this can be called into account at the National Bank of Hungary. In the case of interventions involving the base rate, we see that interventions have become continuous. He also said, Mr President, that these will last until inflation returns to the desired range. However, the release of inflation could not be caught at present, but the payments and the burden of the credit victims have already been lost at this stage. There were types of credit where there could be a 17 per cent increase in payments from November to December. I very much miss the social sensitivity of whether President Matolcsy or the representatives of the governing parties to stand up, to identify this problem, to acknowledge that there are any and to think in common solutions about how to protect these people from the harmful side effects that are clearly not the object of our desires, as no one wants high inflation, but it is certain that the intervention of the Hungarian National Bank could not be perfect if these processes could not be prevented. [[15.10]] We also see that, of course, canceling big investment can be a desirable way, and I am quite sure that if you finally name what the MNB or President Matolcsy had in mind then, these could be serious debates, and perhaps also fruitful debates. What the MNB is doing and what the government is doing, on the one hand, with intervention affecting the level of interest rates, on the other, with the purchase of fully counter-oriented sovereign debt, on the other hand, I am not critical of that, but I see that conflicting processes are taking place. On the one hand, the MNB first closed its own $3,000 billion ceiling on the amount of sovereign debt that can be purchased, now a relatively new news that this sovereign debt purchase process will slowly cease or the flow chart will end. I do not want to criticise either of them in itself, because I will once again say these issues which form a legitimate basis for debate. What I see is that the two processes together are opposite, opposite-significant, and this may have caused a market type of mistrust that we could gently address to the Orbán government by saying that the market does not believe you. The market doesn't trust you, and the thing is, the forint's conscious exchange rate has already been flooded by the market. And if it's been more than ten years, why wouldn't the market players think that the next one plus two plus three plus four years will be the same? And we see that when they took over the baton around 265 forints/euro, and it goes above 370, it is very difficult not to think conscious. We can perfectly see that Hungary's Government is playing a right-wing, national-looking rhetoric at home, while being vassally humiliated in front of the interests of banks and multinational companies. It keeps Hungarian wages low, grants non-refundable support to multi-companies who announce that they do not want this, and tries to attract as much working capital as possible with the low-cost wage level, while, if we deduct the performance of the multi-companies here from GDP data, we see a very, very bleak, hopeless picture. We have to agree with one more point in the Matolcsy criticism: it is perfectly visible and spectacular that the boiling period ends. The amazing masses of EU funds will be increasingly available, and the Orbán governments have been heating the economy from credit over the past three years. From this, however, investments have been made which have been borrowed more than have added value. Here Péter Róna calculates a multiplier of 1.18, which required a loan of 118 forints to advance 100 forints. I think it's debateable, but it also represents the proportions and directions quite well. It is certain that, in the next period, the years should be replaced by years of productivity improvement, and that is the only way to go. On the other hand, improving productivity is based on improving human resources, education, health and the areas where Hungary is constantly deteriorating on indicators; it is constantly slipping back. It can therefore be seen that the Orbán government has been trying to boost the economy on credit, which has been trying to make concrete investments that do not necessarily involve the type of multiplier effect that the economy would otherwise need. Now, when productivity competition will have to be more involved in supporting human resources, the Orbán government, which is much further backwards than any country in the region, will have strong concerns and we would be able to accept any kind of report from the MNB if both social sensitivity appeared in relation to the MNB and the government, and these criticisms would be much more articulated and addressed to the recipient. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-12-01-68	Thank you very much. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa is the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. Here.
u2021-12-01-69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr President, Mr. Vice President, Thank you very much for Mr President's detailed and meaningful report and outlook on both the fiscal and monetary developments in the year 2020 and 2021 in the pandemic year. I would just like to make a comment to my fellow Member, Mr Z. Kárpát, who, in the first six minutes of his speech, spoke about the great pleasure of György Matolcsy and Mihály Varga arguing with the President of the Central Bank and Minister for Finance. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Debate is not a joy in itself. You didn't understand.]] If Congressman looks behind his own back, then there are the chairs who dared to argue with you, and then they were thrown out of the faction. So I think the debate is moving me forward, and the debate can be good. I wish you would think so, and then maybe this whole process would go somewhere else. There is no doubt that Hungary, Europe and the whole world had to face a challenging, complex crisis in 2020 as a result of the coronal virus epidemic. Until the first wave of the pandemic exploded, 2019 and the first two months of 2020 were marked in every respect by an economic record period when the investment records fell, with a low figure of 3.4 per cent previously seen since the regime change, which was recordable in Europe as well as 4.9 per cent of the Hungarian economy, while the average growth in the European Union was only 1.5 per cent. However, as of March 2020, the fight against health and human life and the negative economic impact of the epidemic had to be fought at the same time. It has had a serious impact on the economy in Hungary, Europe and the world since March 2020. The explosion of the pandemic and the subsequent global recession reached Hungary in a much healthier, stronger and more resilient situation compared to the economic crisis in 2008-2009. There was a budget reserve, Hungarian households had savings, and most importantly, by eliminating foreign currency loans, people were not exposed to foreign banks as debt slaves. It is worth comparing the two major economic crises and the management of the last decade and a half. The financial crisis in 2008-2009 was dealt with by left-wing economic policy and left-wing central bank management, while the health and economic crisis in 2020 was dealt with by national Christian Democrat economic policy and central bank management. We see that, in addition to the activities of the former President of the Central Bank, the offshore knight, András Simor, he was the head of the central bank for the sake of austerity. Let's look at the state of the global crisis in 2008-2009. Even before that, in 2006-2007, when economists called that period a year of peace and wealth, the general government deficit was above 5%. In 2006, Hungary had the second worst data in the world, with a deficit higher than the 9.2 percent budget deficit in the war-torn Lebanon, and these were still the years of economic activity before the crisis. In 2008, at the time of the crisis, the Gyurcsány government responded to the crisis by means of austerity, tax increases, the abolition of tax reductions promised, and the abuse of families and businesses. In addition to the left-wing government, András Simor, who pursues irresponsible central bank policy, has also made a major contribution to the crisis's release and serious demise. Thanks to the activities of the central bank at the time, foreign exchange loans repelling families into debt slavery were also released in Hungary. In 2009, it was 1.1 million foreign exchange loans in Hungary and over 70 percent in total retail loans. Public debt became strangled by 2010 and has a very unfavourable composition. In the financing composition of government debt above 80 per cent, the foreign exchange ratio increased to 53 per cent and the share of foreign-managed financing increased to 65 per cent. This has led to a radical increase in the country's foreign currency exposure and external vulnerability. When a weak country, a weak-legged economy is reached by a crisis such as that in 2008, we can see precisely that this will result in the loss of families, the loss of businesses, and, by the way, the deterioration of all our financial indicators, leaving a vulnerable and constrained country to the left. On the other hand, in 2020, Hungary, which was not bled to the extreme, vulnerable and restricted, was found by the crisis caused by the corona virus epidemic, but by a country with reserves, resources and financial room for manoeuvre. Prior to the crisis, the share of foreign exchange loans in the total population's loan portfolio decreased from 70 per cent to 1 per cent, with the government debt falling from more than 80 per cent in 2010 to 65,4 per cent by the end of 2019. Within the public debt, the foreign exchange ratio has decreased from 53 per cent to 21 per cent and the foreign exchange rate has decreased from 65 per cent to 34 per cent, my fellow Members. Since 2013, interest expenditure on the budget in proportion to GDP has decreased by some 2.2 percentage points. In 2020, this was a HUF 1000 billion saving for the budget, so since 2013, interest expenditure on government debt has been reduced by nearly HUF 4700 billion. In this economically and financially more favourable situation, Hungarian economic policy had the power to further reduce labour and corporate taxes, rebuild the 13th month pension, fully exempt people under the age of 25 from work, carry out an unprecedented increase in medical wages, and provide more resources for family support than ever before. [[15.20]] The Hungarian National Bank has also played a large part in this work. Overall, it contributed to defence, strengthening the financial system and the country's budget by mobilising nearly HUF 5900 billion in 2020. The timely, generous and professionally sound steps of the central bank have greatly contributed to the preservation of Hungary's financial stability. The central bank, together with the Hajrá and the growth bond programme, successfully prevented the Hungarian credit market from drying up and the financing of the corporate sector. With the steps of the central bank, it also helped to maintain the stability of the domestic sovereign debt market. During 2020, the National Bank supported the stability of the domestic sovereign debt market by HUF 2263 billion through its long-term covered loan facility and by its sovereign debt purchase programme by more than HUF 1000 billion. The central bank has contributed to the budget expenditure, which has been significantly increased due to crisis management, by paying an unprecedented dividend of HUF 250 billion. The government made the right choice when it took the central bank's proposal to introduce a moratorium on credit repayment and then extended it, which provided security and stability for debtors and participants in the Hungarian economy. The central bank managed to maintain the country's financial stability during the pandemic. In 2020, the average rate of inflation was 3.3 percent. Overall, inflation has developed almost throughout the year within the central bank tolerance band. With regard to inflation, it is worth mentioning that this 3.3 percent inflation in 2020 is still lower than the best figure in the eight years 2002-2010, the 3.5 percent in 2005. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, when you talk about inflation every day, your best inflation figures were higher than the 2020 value. However, it is also noted that inflation was 7.9 percent in 2007, when there was no sign of a crisis. I hope that László Varju or Ildikó Bangóné Borbély will also talk about this. In order to maintain price stability and to support the recovery of economic growth, the Monetary Council reduced the base rate of the central bank by 15-15 basis points in June and July 2020. The central bank and the Monetary Council have therefore implemented an appropriate reduction in interest rates in good time. This consistent, professionally sound monetary policy for the competitiveness of the economy has characterised the central bank since the turn of 2013. In the central bank management of 2010-2013, the central bank deliberately maintained the base rate at an unrealistically high level to curb the growth of the Hungarian economy and to curb the development potential of Hungarian businesses. While everyone else at the time either the European Central Bank or the Fed were constantly reducing the base rate or even bringing the base rate below 1 per cent between 2010 and 2013, András Simor led the central bank's base rate from 5.25 to 7 per cent. That is why the 2013 turn was also important, that the central bank then put the entire resources, capacity, intellectual capital and instruments at the disposal of the Hungarian National Bank in the service of competitiveness, growth of the Hungarian economy and stability. The MNB has been profitable since 2013, with a profit of HUF 255.4 billion in 2020. The MNB's capital base was HUF 1112.7 billion on 31 December 2020. In 2020, Hungarian GDP decreased by 4.7 percent, while the economies of the EU Member States fell to a much greater extent, on average by 5.9 percent. In this way Hungary's economic performance exceeded the EU average in 2020. In order to counterbalance the negative economic impact of the epidemic, the government launched the economic protection action plan in the spring of 2020, which reported unprecedented economic protection measures of around 30% of 2020 GDP. Overall, Hungary's economic policy was largely negatively affected by the pandemic in 2020 after the 2019 record year, but the economic policy of recent years, based on performance, stability and dynamic growth, has enabled the country to quickly overcome the crisis and return to growth. Hungary is today one of the few countries that has already achieved its pre-epidemic performance. Except for us, only eight other EU countries were able to do this. This proves that the Hungarian economic policy and the central bank responded adequately and in line with current challenges to the crisis caused by the corona virus epidemic. I would like to thank the Central Bank for its work, Mr President's work, Mr Vice-President's work and the report submitted to Parliament. The KDNP fraction will support the report of the Hungarian National Bank in 2020. Thank you very much.
u2021-12-01-70	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, please.
u2021-12-01-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vice President, Dear fellow Members, I am very sorry that President Matolcsy has left the debate, although I would add that I do not understand why he came in. Because after listening to the first thirteen minutes, I have to say that he talked about nothing, and then I thought that he might now come to the actual measures he should be doing for the year 2020, but I had to realize that he would continue to talk about nothing at all, which lasted until the end of the thirtieth minute. In fact, it should have been presented here by the President about the business report and the accounts of the Hungarian National Bank for the year 2020. Well, unfortunately, that didn't happen; he talked about everything but what he was supposed to do. However, listening to my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, I realized that he did not talk about anything because he could not talk about anything. Or what he was supposed to do, and he didn't want to do it. Well, my fellow Member has also dealt with the pre-2010 period rather than what we should be talking about. And then let me take a few sentences out of Mr. President's speech. I thought that at the time when he said this half sentence that we had paid a heavy price for the crisis in 2021, he would start to say what these serious prices were and start to say how serious and misguided disease management decisions the government had taken. No one is saying that we have now lost more than 34,000 of our countrymen slowly, not slowly; what failed public procurements have taken place, and I thought it would be something like this, but it did not say. Then he said an interesting sentence that inflation would make our moods worse. Well, I'd like to tell Mr. President that it's not really the case that it would make our moods worse. The situation is becoming increasingly annoying and worrying when we listen to the Hungarian families about inflation, and I would warn Mr President when he said that inflation is 5 per cent; 5 per cent is more than 3. But I'm sorry, we're not talking about 5%, we're talking about 6.5. And he kept talking about five percent here, Mr. President. I didn't even know what numbers you were talking about. Well, let's get a little deeper into what Mr. President should have talked about. The submitted material lists the merits of the MNB for the year 2020 for some 140 pages. Based on the report, everything seems to be all right, there is nothing to see here for the Parliament, everything was as good as possible in 2020. In some respects, this may be a well-founded claim, but it should not be nearly generalised. We can't dismiss you from the fact that the forint has reached its lowest point in recent weeks. There was a period when more than 370 forints had to be paid for one euro. Mr. President didn't talk about that either. This autumn inflation reached 6.5 per cent, not 3 per cent, not 5 per cent, 6.5 per cent, and for some products such as food or energy, this level is multiplied by the actual rate of increase. The consumer confidence index has fallen, which means that much is not expected for the future of the Hungarian economy. Let's face it, they have a reason, because according to surveys, 60 percent of economic operators are planning to raise prices in the short term. These developments, as we have seen today, would not have developed if the MNB had indeed done its work as perfectly as Mr President stated in his report in 2020 or, as he reported here in plenary. You can read a lot about liquidity-enhancing programs such as NHP or the growth bond program. In a crisis year, such as the year 2020, such programmes are needed. [[15.30]] However, relatively little is said about who might have lived with it. For example, the 4iG company, which recently announced that it would buy the Digit with a higher turnover. Forints 232 billion were paid for Digi, part of which was financed from the MNB bond scheme. A company implementing 232 billion-dollar acquisitions is difficult to call a difficult SME affected by the crisis. It's obviously not because of NER's oligarch's desire to buy out a company independent of Fidesz. Similarly, the KÉSZ Group was lucky to take advantage of these opportunities. The KÉSZ Group issued a 10-year bond of HUF 10 billion under the Hungarian National Bank's growth bond programme. One of Viktor Orbán's favourite real estate entrepreneurs, Attila Balázs and Bayer Construct Zrt., led by him, made more than that. In the days, the bond issue ended with a 10 percent overstatement, in which he collected HUF 29.62 billion, with a 3.9 percent annual fixed return; he wants to spend money on current assets and new investments. There's going to be some progress, the company's in almost all the real estate submarkets. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Like other NER real estate companies, he is pushing hard at Lake Balaton, building more residential parks in Budapest. He also built a construction plant, partly with government subsidies. Unfortunately, the effectiveness of the programmes is well indicated by the fact that Hungary's competitiveness is virtually stagnating, after the 47.4 point in 2020, 47.6 points were shown in the MNB's competitiveness report presented on Wednesday. This brings us to the 18th place in the European Union, as reported by the Central Bank. Mr President said that we improved our position here compared to last year, but he forgot to say that this was only because the United Kingdom was no longer on the list. The stagnation of competitiveness is a good sign that everything is not so well in the house of the Hungarian economy. The general government deficit is extremely high, inflation is high and inflation is accelerating, and recently the current account deficit has turned into a current account deficit. The Hungarian economy has simply been divided into marginal areas by the international market, with all its disadvantages. It follows from our situation that we should have followed a more cautious economic policy because of our greater vulnerability to the outside world and also to the objective. It has been mentioned here several times, and my fellow Member Nacsa has also mentioned in connection with the Matolcsy-Varga debate that the debate can be good, but, you know, not as they do, nor as good for our economy or for our country. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] The irresponsibleness of the entire economic policy cannot only be put on Mr President's hands, and this must be acknowledged. We can see you're having an argument with the Minister of Finance, just enough. I expressed myself at the hearing of Minister Mihály Varga, let me say that it would be good if the two senior men, such as Minister Mihály Varga and President of the MNB, György Matolcsy, would finish this catfight, because we will suffer a lot of damage. However, it is Mr President's competence to account for certain central bank purchases. Since last autumn MNB-Ingatlan Kft has been regularly published. information on the purchase of paintings in the Public Procurement Notice. Based on this, László Lakner's 18 works were purchased in 2020 for 148 million, József Rippl-Rónai's Polish Menyhért portrait, Krisztián Frey's 29 paintings and Dezső Korniss' 4 works for a total of HUF 739 million, Dóra Maurer's 17 works for 233 million, Tamás Konok's 42 works for HUF 109.4 million, Judit Reigl's 4 works for HUF 178,5 million, the painting Walter Crane's kidnapping of Europe for HUF 240 million, and a work by Sándor Bortnyik for HUF 288 million. Purchases continued in 2021. In January this year, Vera Molnár's 14 works were purchased by the subsidiary of the MNB for HUF 107.8 million; in March, the company purchased 4 works by Simon Hantai and Judit Reigl, together for HUF 558 million; in April, they bought Ilona Biserű's 5 paintings for HUF 135 million. At the time, on the basis of the above-mentioned public procurement information, the press wrote that since August 2020, the company of the National Bank has spent 2.9 billion forints on works of art. In April this year, however, MNB-Ingatlan Kft. was asked for a list of works of art purchased between 1 January 2020 and 20 April 2021, together with their purchase price and storage location. The table provides 730 items for which a net net HUF 3.8 billion has been paid. This is nearly 1 billion more than what has been reported so far on the basis of the Public Procurement Notice, as more purchases, 347 items were not published there for nearly HUF 1 billion; and the current purchase is now approaching 4 billion. We are not talking about not promoting art, and that is not the main goal. [[Nacsa to Lawrence.]] Just know, my fellow Member, let us not forget that we are constantly talking about, 2020 and 2021, and it seems that even in 2022 we are talking about a pandemic of health, which has very, very serious consequences, and we need to consider what is very important. Buying art, buying paintings, I wouldn't think it's the most important task in a situation like this. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The campaign of Christmas 500 million... Z. Kárpát Dániel: That is not an argument!]] Last September I also listened to the representative, but please do the same for the interest of Népszava, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank said that MNB-Ingatlan Kft. said that MNB-Ingatlan Kft. had purchased the works of art. it places it in representative spaces and offices of the buildings of the National Bank of Hungary, in the middle of the epidemic, and will make the collection searchable and processable for art historians and professionals, which means that the public cannot view them, even though they are purchased from public funds. At the same time, they also have announced programmes that can really help those in need to talk about more than just negative things. It can be like this if they want to make housing for young people easier. A possible increase in the credit coverage ratio limit by 5-10 percentage points could facilitate up to 20,000 customers' access to housing per year. We have talked a great deal about how difficult it is for young people today and what a spiral of credit today can be for young people who are using state subsidies to build homes or taking loans because we see that runaway construction prices have put not only entrepreneurs in an impossible situation, but also those who want to renovate or build their homes and homes now. Allow me one example: let's say, last year a young couple made a budget to build their new apartment, a 100-square-meter apartment budget was designed for, say, 40 million forints. This year, they were faced with an increase in construction material prices that could reach 70-80 million forints in the total amount of this apartment. Many, many young couples are faced with the fact that they can't even get these apartments under the roof, and this has set a terrible trap for couples who want to have children today, or even for couples who would build or renovate their homes. So, in essence, Mr President, he did not talk about anything, but rather, during his 30-minute speech, and very, very many problems that he should have talked about, what health situation, what health crisis Hungary was in, what economic situation Hungary was in, did not open, did not open, and I think that the president of a national bank could have expected him to present a very, very serious report here to the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament. I am very sorry that you did not wait for our speeches and did not stay in the debate. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[15.40]]
u2021-12-01-72	Thank you very much. Representative László Varju is the leader of the Democratic Coalition. Here.
u2021-12-01-73	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Vice President, After a general review of my right-wing opposition colleague, Dániel Z. Kárpát, and after her comments, I would like to highlight a few more points, but I would like to focus on what Mr President said. They've created an opportunity... [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] I would like to discuss and ask some questions about what the President has said. I am doing this now under the circumstances that the Fidesz Member is no longer in the Chamber in such a way that the author is not in the Chamber. I do not know that this is entirely right now, but let us hope that we do, and that we can continue the debate independently from this point of view, I hope.
u2021-12-01-74	Let's do it.
u2021-12-01-75	Okay, thank you very much. As a first thought, I would like to say what Mr President has been leading to in a longer line of thought, that Hungary has managed the crisis successfully, in comparison with historical reflections, and, moreover, it has succeeded incredibly well in comparison with the 2008-10 crisis. I, on the other hand, would like to express my total disagreement: this crisis management was equal to zero, and by the way, it has gone nowhere. I would like to explain this: Hungary is once again the first among the deaths today, the proportion of deaths per thousand people is the largest in Hungary. Compared to this, it is said that the treatment was successful here, while, in the words of Mr President, he admits that there is a social crisis, an economic crisis, a social crisis, a health crisis, and compared to that, it is said that there is no financial crisis, while we are going in the direction that the government is not by the central bank, but by the government. He explicitly advocates the solution that the moratorium will be successful, and it really doesn't cost people anything. Well, Mr Vice President, a lot of people have already calculated that this is a lie. With the increase in maturity, debtors will have a significant increase in costs, and the planned moratorium of a few months that gave the debtors the opportunity to escape will bring them into ever greater trouble, and you will be silent in this story. At times, it comes out of the central bank president that something should be done, but I understand we are also at the same time, based on your assessment, that some 20-25 percent of the risky loans have been set by the banks. Now we do not know how long the moratorium will last, but I see that we are facing very serious financial difficulties, and you have no idea or any idea of how to deal with this situation, Mr President has not said a word about this story. In this way, I just have to repeat that I do not think that we have come out of any crisis in a year and a half, which Mr President has said here in a statement, but instead we are getting deeper and deeper in it, and this is not just the many versions of the virus, but also the decisions of the government. I would like to interpret something in the second context; Mr Vice-President, I would like to ask you to interpret it as a question. As I understand it, Mr President said here that the Hungarian National Bank has made an increase in the balance sheet of HUF 11 000 billion in order to deal with the crisis, and in this respect I have sensed here, also on the basis of meta-communication signs, that Mr President had a great sigh when he said this, but there have been several times such moments that thoughts that, let us say, seemed a little more honest than government communication have caused difficulties. But then the point is that we have managed to use HUF 11 000 billion in the last year not only for the above-mentioned HUF 5000 billion or the economic aid presented by the congresswoman, in many cases we call the bond issue more aid in the real situation of businesses, and they have saved and even invested in companies in the context of the bond purchase programme, where there are specifically loyal ownership circles, and they were primarily financed from it. Here comes the criticism, and in this sense I must repeat my fellow right-wing opposition Member: the President points out in his writing that a similar rapid equilibrium is needed after the recovery of growth; to do so, it is possible to maintain all the standard of living that has been achieved so far, but it is necessary to release or reschedule part of the public investment that generates deficits but does not strengthen competitiveness. Now, the words of the President of the Central Bank, which affect the markets, have left the government completely cold, and their ears have not been moved to this story. If I understand correctly, they disagree, go their own way, and make up for the impossible situation that, in essence, the budget already adopted in 2022 will certainly not be enforceable, whoever will govern will need a new budget here. In this respect, the crisis management, which the President has declared to be courageous in terms of action, is becoming more and more daunting to me, and in this way it does not help. I would add that in the context of what the President called a credit-based crisis management, which follows a confidence-driven crisis management, I think that we should talk to entrepreneurs about how much they trust what you have done here or what you are doing, and what might come from it. Apparently, from the distance between the representative offices furnished with paintings, they do not notice this or see it. In the third round of thought, I think I should agree with what Mr President said in a thought that crisis management has a price. The process described above, I stress once again, the expansion of resources that was poured on the Hungarian economy, the majority of which helped to support loyal ownership and save its companies, but everyone else pays the price. Crisis management has a price and, in this sense, I refer back to the fact that Parliament should actually vote not on the annual report, but on the proposal for a resolution that the non-present national would represent in this hearing, and indeed, in this direction of confidence, at least according to the President, crisis management, yes, the labour market has paid the price, society has paid the price, and we pay with our health and mortality data for what you have done. I think I should just say, perhaps Mr Vice-President, that we do not really have to answer that, because we remember the opinion of the National Bank, which was about, in the middle of last summer, that, by the way, significant economic growth could still be expected here in 2020. [[15.50]] Then, by September, the sobering took place, and the experts of the National Bank did not see any sign of this increase, but before that, the amount of money they had spent on this, they wanted to use it to do so. On the fourth point, I would like to say once again that I agree with the President when he says that inflation is a public enemy. Well, we're happy for you. Wake up! If you have now found out after all this time, while the only and important task on the part of the National Bank of Hungary has been emphasised by Mr President, and he now claims that he has arrived in waves and is expected to have a strong inflationary impact and will remain with us permanently. Then why don't you do something about it? So what are you waiting for? We have already seen that a good month ago or about that time their actions were weak, timid, and the market has punished you, and the forint has gone further and has gone into an unprecedented abyss, which means that overall, the Chairman of the Economic Committee has named the Hungarian National Bank as a strategic partner, a partner with the government, so that we have managed to achieve together that the forint has never been so weak, the government has never been so large, the gas has never been so expensive before, and we could add it in the end, and there has never been corruption in Hungary as it is now. Compared to breaking down inflation... I understand that those circles who are very concerned about raising the core interest rate of the Hungarian National Bank due to the issue of bonds or borrowing have a very serious consequence, but believe me, if you have a five million HUF house loan, it hurts as much as the one you gave 15 billion. The small problem may be treated as a small problem, and they have a big problem, but this problem, I think, is for you to face, and if, in the course of this struggle, the President of the Hungarian National Bank and those who have been involved in this lending process, the friendly lending process, it is no wonder that they are concerned, but I think that this should be their problem. But more importantly, we consider the effective steps of the Hungarian National Bank to curb inflation to be powerless, unprofessional, and on this basis we will not support the resolution proposal. With regard to inflation, as Mr President has said, it will take longer than was calculated, and he said that they trust that it will not be very long and that it will not be two figures. Mr President, I think we very much hope that this sentence is not intended as a message to the markets. I think that the President of the National Bank of Hungary should consider everything when making sentences. Just because it is stated in this KSH communication published today that the inflation we have talked about up to now, what we want to fight, is the price increases that some products have seen: domestic sales prices were 26 percent higher, 31 percent higher in the manufacturing industry. So there are growths here that are unheard of and I think that you have contributed to this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2021-12-01-76	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now there would be two-minute speeches, but there are none, because no one has applied for them, unlike a normal speaker, the representative of the Democratic Coalition, Anett Bősz, may speak. Here you go.
u2021-12-01-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, Mr President began his exposé by saying that, when the central bank was involved in crisis management, the recovery from the crisis was successful, but when it was not, the opposite happened. He spoke of the example of a passive central bank and the example of an active central bank. Although you have left out the recovery from the transition crisis after the change of regime, Mr President, I would like to include you in the positive examples, such as the government, the Ministry of Finance and the joint, successful crisis management and economic rescue package of the central bank. I thought it was important to remember that. Mr President said that the banking system, the financial sector and the Ministry of Finance were able to work together in such a way that the financial crisis did not bring the economic crisis back. Mr President, he has dealt only with moments in economic history when we were able to name either a passive or active central bank, but he did not mention the specific situations in which, where appropriate, the management of the Ministry of Finance and the management of the central bank are clashing with each other on certain economic strategy issues, and I would like to highlight these points in this speech from these few years, because I can agree with the President of the Central Bank on some points in the criticisms he has formulated against the current fiscal policy and economic strategy planning. I am really sorry that Mr President is no longer here, but if Mr Vice-President responds to these, thank you in advance. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) I also deeply agree with the criticism of the lack of competitiveness leap, and I also agree with the fact that the last decade has been spent on economic change by our regional competitors, but we have not been able to make use of this opportunity even in spite of the favourable international economic environment. I also agree that one of the MNB studies named one of the most serious economic problems before the outbreak of the coronal virus, the Hungarian national economy's lack of competitiveness. I think that these are good directions that the President of the Central Bank has set out; it would be good for the government to have a representative here in this debate and then might be able to respond to these points, but unfortunately I have to say that it is as if he had been completely disinterested, considering that I do not see any of the two thirds of his representatives in this Chamber except the notary. I would like to continue with one of the foundations for successful crisis management, such as what our EU partners are implementing through the Next Generation EU package, because this package will transfer money to those sectors, typically in education, sustainable development, and the health system through which healthier citizens are found in a healthier environment in the natural and economic environment, people whose future added value can be higher as workers. In this way, when we repay the loans used to deal with the current economic crisis, we will find societies that transfer money to these sectors in a better state. So we can say that generations who basically rescue us from the current economic crisis are already doing this from a better quality of life, and in this way, if we invest in their future, their adulthood, then I think we can ask them for it. Mr President, you were talking about a quick recovery, but I am saying that this is an apparent recovery. [[16.00]] We are witnessing an extensive growth that economic strategy designers tend to stay away from. Although the expansion growth path does not offer good communication in the short term and very quickly beautiful macro numbers, it is a profitable strategy in the long run, and it could also bring us closer to what the European Economic Community is trying to achieve through the next Generation EU. This is what I have not seen appear either in the intentions of fiscal policy designers or other positionaries of the government, whether I am thinking of the Ministry of Information and Technology, especially vocational training, and that this has a very important role to play in economic strategy planning, as well as the Ministry of Human Resources, which is responsible not only for health, but also for education. Of course, I do not want to embarrass Mr Vice-President so much that I am talking only about fiscal policy, because then it is as if I am not aware that we are discussing the report of the President of the Central Bank and the report of the Central Bank here in front of this House. But I would also like to talk about what Mr President has said about the external and internal causes of inflation, György Matolcsy. I cannot agree with Mr President here that monetary policy would have been successful. I did not hold the government responsible for the external shocks of the economic and social crisis caused by the corona virus epidemic, because I would have always found it unfair, but I have been responsible for the failed fiscal policy and economic strategy planning. In the same way, I do not hold the central bank responsible for 100% of the inflation rate and the historical low point of the forint/euro rate, but their responsibility is undeniable. A leading economist was also sitting in that chair, in which, at the moment, György Matolcsy, who recently published a study on the fact that current fiscal and monetary policy is working together to strengthen inflation. I think, Mr Vice-President, that it is important to pay attention to these signals, and it is important to pay attention to those leading economic professionals who may not come from the same political value community as, say, the current Hungarian government, but such an epidemic management and such a crisis management cannot come only from one political, fiscal and monetary political conviction, because what I often draw attention to is that one of the advantages of democracy in relation to dictatorship is that the common good also comes in debates. It would be good if, unlike the current situation, we could take this seriously and have a long debate on what would be desirable, whether in terms of monetary policy or fiscal policy. So, as I said, I'm not holding the central bank responsible for the situation. However, as far as the responsibility of the central bank is concerned, I criticise the lack of an exchange rate target. I criticise the fact that, compared to all regional currencies, the long-term trend line of the forint has deteriorated even before the Crown Virus crisis. Once we did not find the Polish złoty or the Czech crown in such a bad situation as the forint; and with the members of the Committee on Budgets, we drew attention to this even when planning budget laws, even when we did not even know that there was a Crown Virus. For example, it is not the Hungarian National Bank's fault that the dollar increases against the euro, which affects the forint. It is already true that, in the absence of an exchange rate target, it does not, or is only delayed or has little effect on the international financial market, and this was also mentioned by my fellow Member László Varju, Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, that he hopes that György Matolcsy did not make a message in his expo just now to international investors, because then we would be in great trouble. So, the thing is, with this type of monetary policy, which has been achieved here in recent years, unfortunately, the MNB sends a message to the international financial market that if the Hungarian national economy becomes insecure for any reason, it should immediately withdraw its trust, because the MNB does not constitute a safety net for the forint. As a result, we found the HUF 372 euro not too long ago. This is a difficult monetary policy behaviour, Mr Vice-President, taking into account the challenges faced by economic professionals throughout the world economy. More experienced fellow politicians say that if the election campaign of 94 lasts for another two weeks, Fidesz will be excluded from the Hungarian Parliament. I would like to conclude by saying that if the MNB had had the opportunity to report before the Hungarian Parliament two weeks ago, then they might not have had to explain why they had reached the historic low point of the forint against the euro the other day, but thus became their duty, and I very much missed this from György Matolcsy's top. With all due respect, Mr Vice-President, I would like to ask you to come to this. Thank you for listening.
u2021-12-01-78	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. I will ask if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I now ask Vice-President Barnabas Virág, who I very much welcome myself, the Vice-President of the Hungarian National Bank, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, It's got a 30-minute time frame. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-12-01-79	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am in a difficult situation here after the speeches, not because I think many of the people in this room still think I have tried to interpret the feedback received. We have heard arguments who have said that they have agreed on many points with President Matolcsy's report; we have heard arguments who have said that they have disagreed virtually with President Matolcsy's report; and we have also heard an opinion that President Matolcsy's report was not about anything. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: We are from different parties! Nacsa Lőrinc: It's getting invisible!]] So it's hard to give you answers to such an assessment, but I'm gonna try, I promise. So allow me to respond very briefly to the comments I received during the debate. It has been said several times that a dialogue is taking place, and there is a debate between the Ministry of Finance and the Hungarian National Bank. I didn't exactly know that it was a good thing that it was happening, did it not, that there was a reference where it was mentioned as a good thing, referring to a certain expert, that this debate was taking place, where the opposite was said. On our part, we would like to emphasise that we, in the past and in the future, have a place for professional debate everywhere. These professional debates will continue in the future. There is a very strong professional cooperation and professional dialogue with the Ministry of Finance, so the flow of information is continuous, even if it is true, in some things we do not see the situation the same way, or we do not see the future in the same way. I would like to indicate that if we take a little distance from Hungarian events and look at this situation in international space, then we see similar phenomena in international space. So what we see is that, while the last decade has been about economic policy being developed in close cooperation between central banks and budgets, in recent years we have seen more and more phenomena in the international space, which are precisely about the emergence of a debate between central banks and finance ministers responsible for budgets. This is what we see when we look at American developments, but we see a great deal of developments, cases here in Europe. [[16.10]] The reason for this is that the medium has fundamentally changed. In this medium, in this formula, the new element is inflation. We come from a medium where inflation has not occurred in most parts of the world or in Hungary in the last ten years, or very low inflation, and everyone has struggled to achieve their inflation goals in a range of around 0 per cent or perhaps even a deflation scare. During this period, cooperation between central banks and the budget can be much easier, much less friction-free. This has happened in the world in the decade of 2010, and inflation has brought in a new element, which increases these frictions, as a matter of fact. But I tell you, this is a general phenomenon, and on the part of the central bank, we will continue to stand for the close professional dialogue that we have with the Ministry of Finance, but at the same time we will continue to accept the debates. The general or repeated question was what had been achieved and what had not been achieved in inflation. Given that this report concerns the year 2020 or has been referred to by several professionals, it is worth starting from the facts, and it is worth first striking the facts accurately and initiating any discussion on the basis of them. The facts show that for the four years between 2017 and 2020, average inflation in Hungary was 3.0 percent. In Hungary, price stability is 3 percent, so average inflation over these four years was exactly the same as the price stability target for the central bank. So the central bank has successfully, factually, achieved its most important mandate, price stability. It is true that inflation increased in 2021 this year, by staying at the level of the facts. The latest October data is 6.5 percent. Again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is a global phenomenon. If we look at what is happening in Europe and what is happening in the United States, we see quite similar numbers, and not by accident, because the root of inflation is quite similar. In the United States of America, 6.2 percent, in Germany, where there was no substantial inflation for decades, 6 percent was the last figure, in Poland 7.7%, in the Baltic countries we see values above 8 percent. I would just like to say that this is a global phenomenon. There's a reason we see very similar numbers everywhere. Only a few figures behind this process are currently gas prices on the European Stock Exchange by 511 percent, electricity prices by 656 percent, oil by 35 percent and transport costs between China and Europe by 816 percent compared to the five years 2016-2020. These percentages mean that there has been a five to six-seven-fold increase in costs in the period following the coronal virus epidemic, and we are seeing the inflation consequences of this in Hungary as well, and we are seeing it in other countries around the world. With regard to inflation, I would also like to say more than once in the comments about what the MNB has done in this area, what it is doing and what it is not doing. Again, I would like to emphasise the facts. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank was the first to start a growth cycle in Europe, responding to inflation growth. Let us look at what is happening in other parts of Europe right now. The evaluation of the European Central Bank is worth following here. There the debate is still about whether this is a temporary or a lasting phenomenon of inflation growth. So it's a temporary phenomenon that we don't have to deal with, or a permanent phenomenon that we have to deal with. This was done on 1 December 2021. I would like to stress here that the Hungarian National Bank has already announced in the spring months that inflation is becoming a public enemy, there is one situation that we have to respond to, and in June we started the interest cycle. It's been going on ever since. At present, the highest interest rates in the region are typical of Hungary in terms of short-term interest rates. So, starting in time, the central bank responded properly, and this process will continue until we achieve our inflation target again. I would like to stress that we come from a situation where inflation was persistently around 3 per cent between 2017 and 2020, 44 times out of 48 months, so inflation developed within the central bank's target band with a 90 per cent hit rate. This has never been achieved in the history of the Hungarian inflation target. Perhaps just a historical detour: since 2001 there has been inflation targeting in Hungary, more than 15 years have passed without the central bank achieving its objectives for various reasons. This is what the Hungarian National Bank has done, and we insist on doing so in the next period. On behalf of Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, it has been suggested that in the monetary policy toolbox there are conflicting effects among the instruments currently used, that interest rates are rising on the one hand and that, on the other hand, there is a sovereign debt purchase programme, through which there is an increase in liquidity in the system, and therefore he said that the market does not believe in the Hungarian National Bank. In this regard, I would like to point out that during the period of the coronal virus epidemic, all central banks and a very large part of the central banks have used a so-called sovereign debt purchase programme, precisely to assist budgets in the fight against the virus and in the economic crisis that developed along the coronal virus. It is also clear that these broad programmes are now applied not only by developed world countries, but also by emerging economies, such as Hungary. But here in Poland and Croatia, we have seen something similar. And it is also clear that it is difficult to withdraw from these programmes one step at a time or very quickly. Maybe I could just mention the Australian example from the last few weeks. I do not know how much honourable Members are following international money market developments. When someone suddenly tries to quit such a program, it can very easily be the result that the returns on which the programme itself tries to influence become volatile very quickly, they rise leaping with the consequences of all the negative financial markets. This is why, in response to inflation, the central bank has started to increase the base rate in a rapid manner, so it has constantly increased the short-term yields, while gradually reducing this so-called crisis management tool, the sovereign debt purchase programme, and I think it has so far been absolutely effective with the fact that the Hungarian sovereign debt market has remained stable in recent months, and we will continue to prioritise this stability in the future. Several people also mentioned in my notes that I once again wrote to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát that the Hungarian economy should prepare for competitiveness and productivity improvements. In this connection, I would just like to stress that I think that there is no other workshop in Hungary that has published more studies, books, analyses and writings on how important competitiveness is and how important productivity is in recent years. In the last few months, I have also been very pleased to see these analyses being shot more and more often here in Parliament's benches. Our goal is precisely to get this as wide as possible. I can say that we are continuing this process, so we continue to believe that we need to achieve a competitiveness turn in order to continue the sustainable course of catching up in the next decade, in the next year. The question that came from Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély was about the 5% inflation that the President was talking about. This is a very simple statistical context: the President remembered the average annual inflation rate of 5 per cent in 2021 and the average annual inflation rate of around 5 per cent in 2022. [[16.20]] Within this year, it means that there are months when it is under 5 percent, and there are months when inflation is above 5 percent. By the way, we are now at a time when inflation is above 5%, with a figure of 6.5 percent in October. According to the current outlook, we expect that there will be another increase in the November data, so this rate is expected to rise to more than 7 percent in November. Again, I would stress that this is an absolute global phenomenon, so inflation is still rising everywhere. I think it is good news from a Hungarian point of view that we will reach the peak in November, inflation will reach the roof, and then inflation will gradually slow down, by the way, largely due to government decisions that have been taken in recent weeks, such as the freezing of fuel prices, which will have an inflationary impact of 0.4 percentage points in December and expected to happen in January. There were several times that there was trust in the Hungarian economy, either from outside actors or from domestic businesses, and there was a reference to all kinds of mood indicators. I am a more realistic person in this regard, so I like to examine the fact that there is confidence in the real economy itself. If I am to judge whether there is confidence or no confidence in the future in the real economy, then I think some macro-economic variables will give us a pretty quick answer. After all, the entrepreneur who trusts in the future takes credit with confidence; the one who trusts in the future starts new investments, starts improvements; and the one who trusts in the future is willing to increase the number of employees in his business. If we look at the performance of the Hungarian economy in this area, stressing that in the context of the worst global economic crisis in the last hundred years, we see that our investment rate is between 27 and 28 percent, one of the highest in Europe. But again, perhaps it is worth it here... we have heard a long comparison from Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc about the 2009-2010 crisis; so in order to put these numbers in place, I think it is interesting that the investment rate is now 27-28 percent, which was below 20 percent at the time. So I think that's pretty much what trust looks like in the future of the economy. The corporate credit market is now growing in a range of around two figures per year. At that time, we were in the state of a credit break, a loan freeze, a five percent increase a year. So I think this is once again a good example of what difference there is now and, let's say, in the crisis environment at that time in terms of trust. At that time, the unemployment rate increased in a two-digit range and is now again below 4 per cent and is projected to continue to decline in the coming months. So I think it is not worth painting trust on the basis of a single so-called mood indicator, and I think it is worth evaluating this more complexly, along with real economic processes. I mentioned in the introduction that there was an assessment that nothing was said or learned from the President's annual report. Now all of a sudden, I've just turned on the pages of the biggest press and news agencies, and there's been a long report of the annual report, with very serious messages. So I think that anyone who wanted to understand the allegations was able to follow exactly what statements were made. We have received a question about the moratorium from Member László Varju, and I would like to report only facts here too. Thus, the moratorium has reached families and businesses for the longest and most widely in Europe. We are currently in an exit phase, so the Magyar Nemzeti Bank has repeatedly stressed that whoever can return to the repayment. At present, it is believed that the loan portfolio is expected to remain in the general public population, i.e. around 5 percent of the loans on the retail loan pool remain under a moratorium, whereas in the case of corporate loans this ratio is 2 percent. So it also shows that there is an economy... if there were any problems with the labour market or the vision of the future, then, obviously, a lot of people would stay in the moratorium. So, indirectly, I conclude from this once again that if a lot of people can return to the loan repayment, and very few people stay in here, I can say that this is a lower number than our expectations, so we thought that many people would be able to return, but we did not expect such high rates, that the economy is working, that recovery is taking place, and that a dynamic growth can be expected. It has indeed been said, and this is precisely so, that the Hungarian National Bank has provided nearly HUF 11 000 billion of liquidity to the Hungarian economy during the crisis management. There were signs here that I didn't know what kind of loyalty and all the others had to live up to. Again, I would like to give you some facts in response to this. In the HUF 11 000 billion, the HUF 3000 billion growth loan programme is included, where 40 000 companies were granted loans to commercial banks under this programme, so I would stress that this loan went out through commercial banks. I do not think that the commercial bank administrator has put SMEs that have been able to sustain the workforce or their operation through this loan under any kind of loyalty test. The sovereign debt purchase programme has been HUF 3400 billion. Obviously, the remuneration for the sovereign debt thus purchased was included in the budget, and from this amount the budget knew, mutatis mutandis, during a period of deep economic crisis, the measures, measures to protect or protect jobs, pension payments, investments that it had made during that period. Again, I wouldn't think that these payments were made along any test. So in this regard, I would like to draw attention to the fact that these measures were precisely provided by the central bank policy that preceded the crisis. There may be little talk about this, although I think that there were voices in 2018-2019, even before the crisis, from certain circles of experts who said that the next crisis would actually be a very serious problem for Hungary, because the central bank ran out of gunpowder and no ammunition. This was justified by the fact that the interest rate environment was very low during the pre-crisis period. When we talk about the fact that the central bank has been able to provide HUF 11,000 billion as a source for these two years, it is there that it is also worth reaching back to. So it is not that there was no ammunition in the central bank's stores, but it was able to provide the Hungarian economy with a very strong safety net in international comparison during this period. Mr László Varju also mentioned that there is confidence in Hungarian businesses and what the cost of this crisis management is. Once again, I can only quote the data I've already told you. So our investment rate is also one of the highest in international comparison; the economy is going through a rapid increase in credit; employment has been at an unprecedented peak since the regime change, nearly 4.7 million; wages have increased by 7-8 percent in the competitive market in a period of crisis, according to current projections, this process will continue in 2022 and will be expected to increase by around 10 percent, i.e. nearly two figures. In terms of inflation, it was said to be a wake-up call. Once again, I can repeat that we have woken up first in the European Union, we have continued to be among the first, and we continue to think that the number one public enemy in addition to the coronal virus... so it can be seen that the coronal virus epidemic is not over yet, so we are in the middle of a fourth wave. [[16.30]] Experts analyze this to see whether there is a fifth wave or not. But I would like to stress that, in addition to the coronal virus epidemic, we will continue to see inflation as the number one enemy, and we will continue to do everything in the future to make Hungary one of the economies where inflation again reaches the inflation target very quickly. Once again, I stress that these rates, which are currently characteristic in Europe, are global phenomena, are very similar in inflation everywhere. As regards lending, it has been asked several times that we have properly prepared for the problem of raising interest rates for current lenders. Two things are important in this regard, and two things are worth seeing clearly. Again, the preparations for the crisis: since 2013, the National Bank of Hungary has taken a number of measures aimed at ensuring that borrower families and businesses have the greatest possible ability to repay credit and are in a more stable position when a crisis breaks out. This was the reason for the introduction of so-called debt brake rules, so that it is not possible to absorb excessive debts, as opposed to, say, the years before the crisis in 2007-2008. So, with debt cuts, we have caught an over-indebtedness in the Hungarian economy. We may remember that before 2020, we encouraged everyone with the new consumer-friendly products in the central bank to take on fixed-interest loans, which means that the loan is not a variable interest rate but a fixed, longer period. The reason for this was that we knew that a moment could happen at any time in the future when interest should be raised and that the most vulnerable families should be insured against such an increase in interest rates. With a very strong marketing campaign and product development, we have achieved that in the current credit data, the proportion of interest-fixed products is virtually dominant, with a ratio of around 90 per cent within the new lending, and, thanks to the processes of recent years, it is already more than 50 per cent within the stock. I think that these steps were important in not getting involved in a debt crisis, a debt spiral that we saw in the crisis of 2008-2009, when suddenly everyone was confronted with more debt than they had been able to cover. So the purpose of these rules was precisely to ensure that no one was overindebted. I think that this in itself has been an appropriate preparation for this crisis, and during the crisis, I would like to stress that whoever wants to relieve himself of these effects will continue to find products through which he can do so. There is an interest-fixed, 2.5 percent loan to help you buy a flat; so you can take out a fixed loan at 2.5 percent. There are subsidies under State programmes, the CSOK, which is also a fixed loan product. So I think that anyone who is thinking about taking on a new loan will now find the products through which he can exempt himself from the rate of future interest rate increase. Of course, naturally, there will be people who will be increased in the payments. According to our calculations, an increase in interest rates to date could mean an increase of around 10 percent for these families. This 10%, I think, is worth measuring, that in recent years there has been a steady two-digit wage increase in the years preceding the crisis, between 7 and 8 percent during the crisis, and in the coming years we are likely to return to this 10% wage increase. So I think that the salary charge will still be significantly lower than it was when the loan was borrowed. Congresswoman Dr. Versus Anett made a reference. I'm sorry, what I didn't quite understand was that we should honor the Bokros package as a successful crisis management period, or the regime change is near... [[Dr. Avenger Anett interrupts.]] I did not understand that, but I will try to make up for it in the near future. He's given me a lot of signals. I think that we are making statements similar to several points in our competitiveness reports, so that we need a competitiveness leap, we need to move towards a healthier society. I think these are allegations that the Hungarian National Bank has repeatedly made. For what has been achieved, I would add once again that when we look at the well-being of a society or an economy, we usually look at this per capita GDP as to where it has changed from one time to another. If we look at the processes, we do see that we have started in the last ten years from a position where we were behind Slovakia and Poland in the region, and now we have reached a position where Slovakia is preceded and we are moving around with the Polish level of development. There is always room for improvement, and I do not want to argue for a moment, and I think that those directions, such as the transition to intensive growth, are key processes, but I think that we have made a lot of progress in this area in the last ten years. It's been said that we have to keep an eye on all experts. We can promise that we will continue to focus on all experts and that we will focus on all expert opinions based on accurate, precise data-based assessment of the situation and not on political values. So I think we're watching everyone who comes from the facts and gives feedback based on them. We will continue to do so in the future. We have also been asked about the relationship between exchange rate and inflation. In this connection, I would like to emphasise once again that the Central Bank Act is clear. The central bank's primary objective is to keep price stability and inflation low. So in the future, we will continue to use all the means, all the transmission channels through which we can bring the current high inflation medium back to the central bank's goal as quickly as possible. Between 2017 and 2020, we have achieved this once, we have proven it, and we will also do so in the next period. [[The president will have his glass jogged.]] Excuse me, I'm not gonna take another deep breath. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-01-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The amendment proposals can be submitted tomorrow, Thursday, at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Mr András Aradszki, Member of the KDNP Group, notary of the Parliament, has applied for a post-meeting speech. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-12-01-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The topic of my post-the-meeting comment is the implementation of the programme "Modern Cities" in Érden, but allow me to give you a slightly longer look-out of the entire constituency. There have been important changes in the constituency. For example, the town of Érd became a district seat and changes were also made in the administrative services of the municipalities and in the administrative services of the municipalities. Érd has become a regional centre and can provide several services, thanks to the institution-building opportunities created within the framework of the programme, which are at regional level, such as the district centre, the vocational training centre, covers the western part of the county of Pest. On my initiative, a district and city court was set up, the building of which will be handed over in the near future, but this building will also allow the prosecution. Diósd got the city rank, built a new town hall of Turkish bálin from his own strength, in which the government consents to operate a government window. As a result, two government windows in Érden, Törökbálint, Diósdon and Tárnok, have started operating since 2010. There are important changes in utilities, roads, railways and other infrastructure areas. Between 2010-18, the total sewerage was realised in Érden, Diósdon and Tárnök, and in Sóskút between 2010-18, which took place with substantial amounts, with a serious state self-depreciation, such as 200 million forints of self-subsidisation in the case of Saltkút. [[16.40]] The main roads of Érd have also been renewed, the transformation of the Iparos út-M7 node has been completed, eliminating the risk of accidents, accelerating the passage. In connection with this, between Érd and Törökbálint the road to M7 was built, releasing Törökbálint from transit traffic. Between Érd and Tárnok, the financing is available for the roundabout of Vadlúd Street and Érden on Törökbálint Road and Zámori Road, Fehérvári Road, NIF announced these opportunities, and in all likelihood these investments will start at the beginning of next year. Significant precipitation water drainage investments have been made in Érden. In connection with the water arrangement, the Érd City Park, playground, sports, boating lake and all other experiences were built for visitors. With hundreds of billions of forints of investment, railway lines have been rebuilt, where suburban transport has become popular and has improved its quality. A road bridge over two railway lines helps to improve internal transport in Érd with significant added value, not everyone has to pass through the center of Érd in order to reach, for example, Százhalombatta, Tárnok or Martonvásár. A new railway station was built in Tárnok, the main station was renewed in Érden, a new connecting track was built between lines 30 and 40. With billion-dollar investment, the quality of drinking water in Érden has also improved, and in the most dynamically developing part of Érd there has also been a new modern post office. Overall, it can be said that in the last 12 years the constituency has undergone significant changes and dynamic developments, including the city of Érd. I must add that in 2019 this development was halted, that the new city administration was unable to dynamic investment, unable to write out regular public procurement, and that it was interested in launching it after 2022, I suppose. This has such political issues that they do not want the investments of the Hungarian government to be enjoyed by the Érdians as soon as possible. I also have to add that there is an example of this, for example, that already existing investments are not handed over, that these buildings are incomplete and empty, and that they delay the acquisition of assets necessary for their operation. I think the Érdians know that in this situation, we are the only ones they can count on, and they won't allow the Gyurcsány era to come back for Érd. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-12-01-82	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. Ladies and gentlemen, From the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied to speak after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-12-01-83	Mr President, Dear House, In recent weeks, the Orbán government has turned up the migration volume again, trying to give as much information as possible about how many people arrive illegally at our borders and how they arrive. It is strange for us because we, Jobbikos, are essentially the only force that has declared absolute zero tolerance in 2015 against all forms of migration. Compared to this, Fidesz-KDNP has provided a settlement policy for the more affluent arrivals, while for the poorer arrivals, it has made mass and organised imports of migrant workers and calls for them in recent years. The first legislative facilitations can be dated to approximately 16th of 2015 on the basis of which Fidesz has made the arrival of mass foreign or third-world workers to Hungary definitely easier, but the government decree that clearly made it easier for third-country visitors to come from exotic regions, if any, will be dated to 1st September 2021. Run through the affected countries. The Republic of Belarus and Bosnia and Herzegovina may not be that interesting in this regard. The Republic of North Macedonia and the Philippines are starting to become more interesting as arrival points. The Republic of Kazakhstan raises questions in relation to distance, as well as Mongolia; what is most interesting is that the Government of Orbán is waiting for mass labour for the Republic of Indonesia and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. We also see that, in the meantime, serious discounts have been made to temporary agency companies and companies. The leader of one of these companies gave a long interview on why the Vietnamese workforce should be employed in Hungary. In this, such things as flexible working time can be handled, partners working on a temporary basis if necessary, since there is little else to do here. It can be seen that the mass presence of migrant workers brings in a culture of work where the employer manages working time more flexibly, and where appropriate, wage cuts should also be partners who want to keep their job. In areas where there is a continuing shortage of labour, the situation of workers may not be severely vulnerable, but we also see that it is worth examining what areas these temporary agency companies are bringing labour into, as we often do not see any analysis of whether these are really areas of shortage or not. What we're seeing is that it's more based on the announcement of the multi-companies that they think they need a job there. It could also be the subject of an investigation by the temporary agency companies themselves, since some of them work with a factor of 1.6 to 1.8 times, so they realize half or more of the labour force they bring here as a profit. It is worth considering that this is worth it for Hungary beyond the risks mentioned above. But what is really interesting is that, in addition to the fact that Hungary has issued more than 54 thousand residence permits in the last year, Hungary has issued more than 54 thousand residence permits, it is the areas in which these citizens are called, since a detailed list of more than thirty professions in the Hungarian Gazette has been published, where the workers from Vietnam, Mongolia or Indonesia, perhaps from the Philippines, are expected to be. This includes carpentry, locksmith, surprisingly the restaurant worker, IT worker and programmer, and these jobs are relatively simple from behind a computer, if not from any destination, but from home. Interestingly, this includes meat processing, maintenance and cashing jobs. It can therefore be seen that Viktor Orbán and his government are trying to invite labour force from third countries to Hungary in bulk, by tens of thousands. On the other hand, we call on them to examine the possibilities of supporting our own reproduction, where appropriate, with a housing programme, a fair settlement of the wage level, and to develop a programme to enable Hungarian workers who have been displaced abroad to thrive in their home country. That's what we believe, certainly not in the mass import of labour. And what is quite amazing to us is that while the Orbán government is trying to lend itself a warlike anti-migration character, it is actually organizing migration. We call on them not to do this, so that all Hungarians can thrive in their homeland! Thank you for your attention.
u2021-12-01-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr Ádám Steinmetz, the notary of the Parliament, also applied for the floor after the agenda of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2021-12-01-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, When it comes to the word "land of promise" in a company, most people think of North America, the continent where hundreds of thousands of our countrymen have migrated over the past centuries in the hope of a better life. And, yes, many of the village of Ács, located near Pálistóti, had left at the time. For the people of Somogy, however, the promised land does not mean America, but rather the surroundings of Balatonboglar and Marcali, and unfortunately not because life would be better here, but because of unrequited government promises. Because of all the unrevealed government promises we've had in the last ten years. Let's see what they were. [[16.50]] The most common promise was that if we choose Fidesz, then the region will really develop, then the promised developments will be realized, and most people have also chosen the representatives of Fidesz. And what do we see? What happened? Well, the perception of the direction of development is highly individual, but let's stick to the fact that we've been waiting for more. The fact is, in the last 12 years, Fidesz has been on the government, and Fidesz's men are also in charge of Somogy County, but many promises have not been fulfilled. And what's most painful and most outrageous is that it doesn't really bother them. For example, they are not disturbed by the absence of a complete renovation of road 68, such as the purchase of the CT equipment promised by Attila Móring József in 2014 and the failure to build the landing track of the rescue helicopter at the Marcal hospital, or, for example, the failure to build a bicycle road connecting Mesztegnyő with Balatonmáriafürdő promised by the Member in 2017, or, for example, the failure to convert the Petőfi Sándor barracks in Marcal to the military plant promised in 2018, which would give jobs to 200 to 220 people, or, for example, the absence of the hospital's independence promised by November 1, 2020, which could finally break away the hospital in Kaposvár, or, for example, this year, the renewal of line 37 promised, which had been damaged by the flooding last summer in the region of Böhönye. But I could also mention the fact that the road linking Gamás with Somogyvár-Vityapuszta has been dissipated and rendered viable, which Mr President has also promised for this year. And, of course, I could list the line with promises made to the Somogyi personally, because it would also be worth a Mass about how many people the Fidesz MEPs have set up, deceived and deceived in the last ten years. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in view of this, the region of Balatonboglár and Marcali is indeed a land of promise, more precisely, an unrevealed promise. I hope that this will change next spring, because unrequited promises cannot remain without consequences, because, as we know, promise is a good word if they keep it. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-12-01-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your day's work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. I'm closing the meeting, and I wish you all a good night and a happy return home, and I'll see you tomorrow morning.
