u2021-11-29-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 15th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Ádám Steinmetz. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Dear House, I am now returning to my sad duty to announce that two of our former fellow Members have passed away in the past. Tibor Leszkovszki obtained a mandate from the regional list of the county of Veszprém as a candidate of the MSZP in 1994 and was a member of the Hungarian Parliament until 1998. During his term of office, he assisted the Local Government and Police Committee. He was the mayor of Várpalota until 1990-2006. He died in the 74th year of his life. Sándorffy Ottó was a member of the Parliament for a period of time between 1994 and 1998. He got his credentials from the regional list of Pest County as a candidate for the Independent Little Farmers' Party. During his term of office, he was a member of the Committee on Budgetary and Financial Affairs and of the Committee on the President of the State Audit Office. In addition to his political career, he also played an active role in local public life. In the autumn of 1995, the Cross of Merit for Hungary received a medal, and in 2010 he became a citizen of honour of Piliscsaba. He passed away 90 years of his life. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our fellow Members with a silent standing. [[The people in this room stand up and pay tribute to the dead.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai has applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor.
u2021-11-29-1	Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, The house rules say that the leading president or the chair should not be criticized, so I would certainly refrain from criticising the meeting, but I cannot refrain from criticizing László Kövér, who is the owner of the Fidesz's 1st party book, the 3rd public-law dignity of today's Hungary, and, abusing its power, is attempting to push our country towards a dictatorship of a party state. [[A statement from the ruling parties, "Oh, you poor thing."]] This weekend the scandal broke out, and we learned that László Kövér tried to convince the heads of national security services and secret services that the biggest threat to Hungary, the greatest threat to national security, would be the opposition. Let us say that from now on it is more understandable why they are listening to us, why they are watching us, why they are taking away the word here, or why they are punishing us with millions of penalties, or even more serious, that using Russian secret service methods to manufacture so-called compromises, they are trying to discredit the opposition's leading politicians with non-existent cases. László Kövér's relationship with democracy roughly quotes the relationship of the political leaders of the 1950s [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: A system-shifting politician!]] And, yes, when, before the change of regime, Viktor Orbán had a saying that they were not fighting the system, but those who are operating it, that is exactly what he must have thought, that you are actually very sympathetic to total political power, but not to someone else's hands. So, according to one of the key politicians of Fidesz, it is not the risk of national security that spies are being deployed here with virtually state aid from Russia and China, when, disguised as a bank or university, under the cover of professionals coming to various investments, KGB agents and Chinese secret service people are virtually no longer using Hungary as gateways, but this is their landfill and they are leaving for their European raids. So the Fidesz and the Kövér László who sold out Hungarian national interests and allowed free passage not only to Hungary, but to all the Member States of the European Union, to the people of these eastern dictatorships, while trying to explain that we, who criticize them, use democratic means to prevent their damaging policies, that we would be the national security risk. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Because this speech is very democratic!]] That Fat László, by the way, who is how should I put it? This double standard of how to judge the pre-90 system, the Chinese communist system or the Putin regime and today's Orbán regime is applied in all other areas as well. So, for example, he believes that if a man with a large beard, who travels through the chimney, shows his affection for another man, the presentation of this is the most depraved Christian debauchery, if I correctly quote his latest statement. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right. Why, do you like it? Noise.]] while another man with a big beard who runs through the gutters [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] , declare... Yes, Mr. President?
u2021-11-29-2	Here you go. I was just trying to keep quiet here, Member.
u2021-11-29-3	Thank you very much. So, if another man with a large beard who drives down the drain, drugging his affection for 25 other men, it is the greatest glory of Christian democracy. [[13.10]] And this party is this party! launch a hate campaign against LGBTQ people! It's pretty amazing. Really, shame on you, get out, start the line with you, from the Hungarian public. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The elections will decide!]] And they do so in the most severe period of the epidemic, when they do nothing other than the success propaganda, while the current mortality figures are four times the EU average, and here is the new variant on our necks. Variant research does not exist in Hungary, and it is not about raising the number that is 0.044 percent today in Hungary, which indicates the proportion of samples sent for variation research, say 47 percent as in Denmark, but we want to be where Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Ethiopia are in this. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Total government failure and total moral destruction is your balance.
u2021-11-29-4	In response, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-11-29-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Unlike you, the Speaker personally fought against a dictatorship, risking everything. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] If he and his associates hadn't done so, you wouldn't be able to sit in a democratically elected parliament right now. That's the thing. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We can see very well what the game is about, László Kövér's words have not been translated for the first time, and they are building an embarrassing campaign on it. We remember the required speech, Ferenc Gyurcsány was his spiritual master. Contrary to the allegations, László Kövér did not identify political actors as risks, but the political situation that there are two mutually exclusive national and state images within politics. He said: "A part of Hungarian politics acts in the spirit of the self-destructive state and the self-indulgent nation. If that's not typical of you, then don't take it personally. If they take it personally, there's a reason why they shouldn't blame us. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Speaking of public figures, what you represent in politics is more than anything else presented by the words of your candidate for Prime Minister. We have heard a lot of steep things from him, but what has just been published is beyond anything: he called those Hungarians who would keep the energy prices low and oppose migration, kept in the dark and fed with manure. So once again, he called them mushrooms kept in the dark and fed with manure, which he was able to express not somewhere in the back gardens or behind closed doors, but in a public forum. The years go by, but the left Lenin boy pace doesn't change at all. The right-wing ones have been called rats before, and the fact is that Péter Márki-Zay has caught up with this style because in his short career he has meditated on the possibilities of re-use of lamp irons, and that the best people on the right could not decipher a crossword puzzle. Then came the fungal certification with fertilizer. Tell me, Congressman, where is the limit of invaluable insults? Where does this lead, tell me! If this is the European style you demand, then thank you very much, but we do not ask for it. By the way, our supporters often ask me when we will answer these insults, which, by the way, is a legitimate question. The answer is that we never respond in this style [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] And not here, but in the polling booth; we will do it this spring, for sure. And about the weird ways. What could be expected of you is very well shown by the scandal surrounding city hall properties. Now you can explain anything, but it's very clear what we're dealing with. According to reports, these properties have been flown by left-wing businessmen, talking about tailor-made applications, a 10-percent commission system, and selling some of the Town Hall properties. Even if they deny it, the sentences published are clear. If you were to say that this is just a political opinion, let's quote from a pure source, say, Bajnai Gordon, who is your former prime minister. I quote Gordon Bajnai: This is a six-party coalition, which is a gift. Someone here smells the possibility of a business, so right away, everyone wants to put you in as a middleman so they can ask for a commission. There are these sharks everywhere, there are a lot of these sharks swimming in that lake, and in a great coalition everyone has small areas, so it works with quotes closed. I don't think I have to comment. But Péter Márki-Zay, whose solution to the case is that the Fidesz really wants to buy City Hall. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is Bajnai Gordon our guy? Gordon's our agent!]] That's what he said, I don't know, the congressman saw him, that's what he said. I don't know, he asked her to say that, or someone asked her to say that, or to say it on purpose, but the situation is serious. The situation is serious, and this is your Prime Minister's candidate. Nevertheless, the situation is serious, because City Hall seems to have actually been viewed by left-wing circles. What's your slogan again? It's that they're clean. Am I recalling this correctly? They say you're clean. Now we ask one of those who call themselves clean so that Budapest is not seen as a prey, because this is the capital of the country, not the hunting ground of the people of the past. It seems that the town hall has seen a spectacular leaking back in the Gyurcsány-Bajna era. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] But we're not gonna let this spread to the country. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-29-6	Now for the LMP, it's Krisztina Hohn. [[13.20]]
u2021-11-29-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, It is not so easy to speak after such an interesting debate, especially because I think that the greatest security risk is hatred, which, unfortunately, is getting stronger and which is present among people for political reasons. Families, friends fight with each other about politics, who loves whom, who doesn't, who belongs to. Unfortunately, the crime and fault of politicians is that this can happen in Hungary, because people do not speak to each other because one of them loves the party of government and the other one loves the opposition. Now, that's a real national security risk, ladies and gentlemen. But I would not like to talk to you about this subject, but, in an unusual way, about the World Day of Violence against Women, which was last week, on November 25th, to be exact. I have talked about this several times here, within the walls of this House, but I think that I should take every opportunity, especially when it is the anniversary of this, to bring this topic to the House again and again, even for reflection. For as long as there is violence in a relationship, whether it is against women or men, it is therefore necessary to speak out. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, such violence may also be directed against men. I stress this because when we talk about the World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, we often get that this is a feminist text and that we say this because we are against men. Well, please, this is a big mistake. We also expect men very, very much in this so-called fight, that we must strive as much as possible to ensure that as few cases of this kind occur in Hungary in Europe and even in the world. Careful estimates suggest that there are up to 100,000 people who suffer such acts of violence in their relationship or family, in the family where there should be peace, in the family where security and love are the most important. And in many cases, they do not know what to do, where to turn, or, if they do know, often the answer of the authorities is inadequate, they do not handle these situations properly. The abuser has to experience the need to talk about his case several times, and unfortunately, there is a great deal of victim error in Hungary, we find that it is very large. When I talk about this subject, I am also very often asked what the wife or child did to get this. I don't think there's a reason why someone should be beaten. I suppose we all agree on that. Unfortunately, in many cases the authorities are not able to take the appropriate approach to these cases. This varies from county to county, there are very nice examples, but unfortunately, there are also very bad examples where, despite multiple indications, they cannot help the victim. Therefore, after a while, he loses the courage of the abused, or when he sees the failure of the other, he loses the courage to seek help in this matter. The victim doesn't get adequate protection. The victim's got a good chance of getting away. I'm sure the Secretary of State will tell you that there are already eight secret safe houses in the country. I know that, but I think there should be at least one in every county. If the victim is not protected, especially if his physical integrity or even his life is at risk, then the perpetrator continues to do what he does. There are various forms of violence, verbal, psychological, physical, sexual, and economic. These should be very carefully monitored. I've told you so many times, I'd like to have social advertisements that draw attention to the fact that domestic violence is not a private matter. Katalin Novak said that, and I agree with him, it's absolutely not a private matter. It is not only enough to tighten the sentence, but also to take greater care of prevention. And what is very important is that not only is prison time is the solution and must be strict, but must be examined, and if there are psychic reasons why he is doing this, then he should be obliged to go to a hijacking or some kind of therapy that professionals are more entitled to decide than I am. And in the same way as in the case of drunk drivers, there are discussions, group therapies, and go to them, because they will continue to seek more and more sacrifices, and they will do so over and over again. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-11-29-8	Mr. Secretary of State Pál Völner has the floor.
u2021-11-29-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If we look at the topic raised first, I always thank you for the calm voice and for not being able to deal with the subject of victims as a political matter, then there really could be a consensus that would be good if it could appear as often as possible here in this House. Some of the points raised in the area of victim support are: victim support is one of the most important priorities of the government, and the Ministry of Justice, for example, declared the year 2020 as the year of victim support, with particular attention to the objectives of more comprehensive and targeted victim assistance, close cooperation with various ecclesiastical and other non-governmental organisations in this area. A national media campaign, as you mentioned, was conducted in 2020 in order to achieve more effective victims, and this has been achieved since then; the contribution to better prevent victims by various campaigns, families, children, women, including increasing the protection of victims. Without the need for an exhaustive list, let me give you some examples. In July 2020, an accelerated procedure was introduced to allow victims to obtain compensation easier than before. However, as of 1 January, the new opt-out system in force will allow victim support centres to contact the victim directly instead of waiting for the victim's help, provided that the victim agrees to do so at the police station after the crime has been committed, because it is obvious that no action can be taken without him. The new, more victim-friendly approach has already contributed to the statistical increase in the number of victims receiving various victim-support services, so the visibility has decreased. This is definitely a positive result. The Ministry opened the first victim support centre in Budapest in 2017, and the network has been growing ever since. I'll give you the results of this. There is a free-of-charge victim support line, with which about ten thousand victims have already received assistance. A separate website and a series of videos support communication and awareness raising. The government is deeply in agreement with the importance of protecting children and women, and that, of course, it is not just women in relation to violence. In previous speeches, we also went through several times the number of changes in the Criminal Code Act to ensure that physical, psychic and sexual abuse, with precise wording, is fully covered by the facts of the actions that can be condemned, and that the violations can be established and followed by appropriate penalties. We have introduced legislation on the person requiring special treatment, which also serves to protect and manage these persons in the procedures, so that they will be harmed as much as possible to carry out these procedures. We have also clarified and broadened the restraining of criminal proceedings, which also protects against contact with persons who pose a threat to them. As I mentioned, the victim support service was set up on 22 February 2011, and the victim support line is available every day of the week, free of charge and free of charge. I will also announce the number of victim support lines maintained by the Ministry of Justice: 06 8225-220. In 2018, the victim support line received 12 479, in 2019 12 005, in 2020 11,574, in the first three months of 2021, for which I have statistics, 2873 calls. So, technically, it's available every hour, and we're trying to provide the help that the legal system allows. Victim support centers were opened in Nyíregyháza, Debrecen, Eger. The ultimate goal is to have a victim support centre available in each county by 2025. I could go on with my activities, but my time is up. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.30]]
u2021-11-29-10	It is now up to the representative of DK, Mr Zoltán Varga.
u2021-11-29-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Well, in recent days, perhaps one of the meanest sentences in the political history of the past period has left the speaker's mouth. I understand that you, honourable government representatives, are trying to clear the Speaker of the House, but you must understand that the water in which you are doing this is getting dirtier. This is so not gonna work! In this context, in the last two days, I have been a very big news consumer, and I have been constantly reading the news, waiting for the announcement that one of the number one people in the country, as many call it, may willingly announce that he is retiring. If the news had not come to you, honourable members of the government, through their propaganda door from Antal Rogán's back pocket, well, yes, on Saturday morning a scandalous recording was leaking, in which László Kövér called his political opposition a national security threat, violating and humiliated not only us but millions of Hungarians as well. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You're lying! Károly Kontra: He's not telling the truth! Dr. Bence Rétvári: Read it again.]] A few hours later, we called on László Kövér to resign as one, not only the politicians of the united opposition, but also many others, and we have been waiting for nothing since then, Mr Fat. Because, of course, one of the first people in the country has not resigned, and you, in the ranks of the ruling party, have not even called him up, so on 29 November 2021 they still call the President of Parliament László Kövér, which is infinitely disappointing. I am sad because it shows that Mr. Fats can freely insult millions of Hungarians. [[István Szilárd Németh: You're lying!]] , you can safely say that we are a national security threat to the opposition parties, the decent Hungarian people who support us, pensioners and young people alike. You can talk about these without consequences in the presence of national security services, which would indeed have a constitutional obligation to ensure party-neutral functioning. In your eyes, of course, it's all perfectly fine, in fact, to be supported. But I'm also sad because I can see that your hate policy has come to a new level. You've had enough of the Fidesz benches, but you've hated so many people and everything for the past 11 years! While my fellow opposition Members and I have been accustomed in recent years to the fact that in the presence of Mr Fat, we are practically unable to make a speech to Parliament in such a way that it does not choke on us. Believe me, we still sleep in peace knowing that you hate us from the heart, and that you would like to fill the benches of the opposition with Viktor Orbán's paper machetes. But the fact that László Kövér already speaks with open hatred of the more than 2.5 million Hungarians who support the united opposition, I believe that this goes beyond all borders. You know perfectly well that the people who László Kövér described as a national security threat are in fact a threat to your power, and that is probably why they started hating these millions of people, because they feel that in a short period of five months these people will send their system to a warmer climate, but certainly very, very far away from current government positions. [[There's a blur and a blur from the benches of the ruling parties.]] Apparently, they're having a bit of a hard time with this. But let me be clear: nothing gives you the right, László Kövér, to post these honest Hungarian people and us as a national security threat, who, I'm just saying, will systematically break down your vile and infinitely corrupt system from April next year. The Speaker of the House would have a moral obligation to resign, even if the meaning of this word sounds as unknown to him as to you, honourable pro-government representatives, as the concept of integrity and honor. However, at least one question was answered in any way in a much clearer way than before. You know, László Kövér's words were certainly good that if any Hungarian person had ever had any doubt that he could stand behind the scandal of Pegasus spy software, everyone now knows the answer. Inciting fat is further evidence that Fidesz's top circles have decided to observe and listen not only to opposition politicians, not only to independent journalists, but also to businessmen who are returning from the NER's filthy system. In February last year, Mr. Fat gave the political opponents the launch permit without any legal basis. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] And the manual-controlled specialist services have done just fine. Of course, I look forward to Mr Fat's resignation. Thank you for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-11-29-12	I give the floor to Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go.
u2021-11-29-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Mr Zoltán Varga did not speak the truth in his speech, so we would say that a Fake News was being distributed. They're trying to play the same embarrassing campaign against Speaker László Fat, which they tried to play once before. You didn't tell the truth when you put those words in the mouth of Speaker László Kövér, and you probably did so because you know there's butter behind the ears of your political community, in many ways. On the one hand, we remember that it was you who opened the Hungarian national security agencies to foreign agents before 2010; it was you, your political community, who undermined Hungarian national security interests, and you were the ones who chose repression instead of freedom during their pre-2010 administration. It was you who lied to the voters, hid from them the real data of the Hungarian economy, and when the voters expressed their displeasure, exercised their rights within the framework of a democratic constitution, you did not take their views into account, but on the contrary: a horse-riding attack was carried out against them, and eyes were fired. Then, when there was a national or even international scandal involved, they did not apologize and resign, but decorated each other. This is the saddest and darkest story of Hungarian democracy, of the past thirty years, of our decades since the constitutional change. There is also an actuality of this whole issue, because there is not only historical butter behind your ears, but unfortunately, Hungarian public life is also currently loud from the scandals caused and aroused by you. One is the case that we have discussed today, the Town Hall-gate, where we are talking about the fact that the former prime minister, Bajnai Gordon, who is imagining himself a real estate agent, is offering to sell the City Hall building. [[Szabolcs Szabó: Don't lie!]] as an intermediary. In the meantime, there is a clear, uncontested discussion of the fact that the City Hall, in the political space in which you have held a responsible position since 2019, has a commission system where sharks are circling. We know this world, we who are a little older [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] We don't go to university or high school, for example. Unfortunately, these terms are very familiar to us, the government before 2010 was marked by austerity, and this amazing policy, which seeks to rip off public and national wealth. The exact same vocabulary of words, exactly the same approach you had before 2010, in your pre-2010 policy as well. It is regrettable to see that you are like the Bourbons: you have learned nothing and forgotten nothing in the past twelve years. One more thing, when it comes to hate. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in fact, the person to talk to is your Prime Minister's candidate, Péter Márki-Zay, who, in addition to the fact that he is the candidate for Prime Minister of the Left and, in theory, should support the program for reducing the rent, but still defends the abolition of the reduction. He says it will be extremely difficult to eliminate, but I see that he is very determined, so he would very much like to let illegal immigrants in, to protect George Soros, to eliminate the reduction of the rent, to abolish the social components in the petrol price. [[13.40]] As a left-wing politician, I do not know what it is like for you to hear these expressions or these programming points, but the sad thing is that this is your policy, this is the opposition's offer to Hungary at the moment. And what does Péter Márki-Zay and your political alliance think of the millions of Hungarians who are struggling with the economic effects of the coronal virus epidemic, would you like to take one step at a time, would you like to live better, would you like to pay less? Well, that they're kept in the dark. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And they feed it with manure, and they're nothing but mushrooms. That's pretty amazing. I would like to ask you all to apologize now, before it's too late. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-29-14	Now it's time for the group leader of MSZP, Bertalan Tóth. I give you the floor.
u2021-11-29-15	Ladies and gentlemen, Two years ago, along with Zsolt Borkai, sex orgying, and then a year ago, József Szájer, fleeing from a free sex orgy in Brussels, the Fidesz sank into amazing moral depths. At the time, we thought there was nothing lower, but we were wrong, according to a recording that László Kövér slipped from his post as Speaker of the House, into amazing moral depths, showing where the Fidesz is now. The fact that László Kövér calls the opposition a national security risk in the centre of the Constitutional Protection Office on this recording indicates that Fidesz considers its political rivals an undesirable phenomenon. If it were said by an ordinary man, we would ignore it, because there are obviously fools, and the opinion is free, but this was said by one of the country's public-law dignitaries and the functionaries of the state party at an event for secret service leaders. It's not just a scandal, it's a disgrace. We have heard from the President of Fidesz that Parliament operates without opposition. We see how the Orbán government has destroyed the system of democratic brakes and balances. We also found out how the Fidesz government is illegally monitoring civilians, journalists and opposition politicians with a secret spy program. However, László Fatvér's statement crossed a red line: there is a recording that the President of the Parliament is inciting the secret services to the political opponents of Fidesz and instigating them with all their might to help the Fidesz remain in power, even against the will of the people. And you know why? Because the Fidesz is shaking for power. Shame on you! But if you're looking for national security threats, national security risks, I'd like to ask you a few helpful questions. Was it a threat to our nation that we lost a city of our countrymen because of Fidesz's mistreatment? Was it a risk to the nation that the lack of resources provided by Fidesz would be maintained only by the conscientious and superhuman efforts of doctors and nurses? Is it a threat to the security of our nation that the Orbán government has used the full mandate not to save people, but to change the entire Hungarian legal order in order to cement its power, and to shovel as much wealth out of the common register into foundations, Tiborcz, Butchers and others? Is it a risk to our nation's security that the Orbán government will bring the Hungarian people into brutal debt with loans from the Russians and the Chinese? We don't have to go far, it's enough to think of Paks II or the Budapest-Belgrád railway line; or that László Kövér's Chinese friend supports a Hungarian foundation with hundreds of millions, which is being removed by Fat's men. The answer is yes, you have failed the country. But the greatest threat to the nation is the policy that Fidesz has represented over the past 11 years to support those who already have something to cut into milk, while those most in need are already excluded from the possibilities of financial catching up. Ladies and gentlemen, At EU level, three quarters of Hungarians live in poverty. Four fifths of Hungarians live in one of the most disadvantaged regions in the EU. There is an increasing gap between wages and pensions, a quarter of pensioners receive a pension below 100,000 forints. The Hungarian minimum wage will be one of the least in the EU from 1 January, and if you look at the V4s, it will be the lowest. These are the real risks to our nation; these are the problems that we need to solve. That's why you have to catch up on the pay. That is why the social network needs to be strengthened and broadened. And that is why we also need to raise the low pensions, not only with pre-election payments, most of which are carried away by inflation, but also with systemic solutions: Swiss indexation pension increase, 13th month pension, 70,000 HUF pension minimum! However, honourable Members, this requires a change of government. And László Fat doesn't have to worry, with the Democratic opposition alliance, we're building a rule of law [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] where he doesn't have to escape from any of the Parliament's eaves. For our future, for Hungary!
u2021-11-29-16	I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2021-11-29-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Millions of people should be scolded when the sword-slapper, eye-blowing left [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Armored Car Fidesz.]] You're worried about the rule of law here in Parliament. Honourable Congressman, 15 years ago, we should have been worried about the rule of law in Hungary when there was unprecedented violence in Hungary; when you allowed Russian-speaking people into the Hungarian secret services. Well, then there was indeed a problem with the Hungarian rule of law. That's when you ran the country. What you have been doing in the last few days, and in this Parliament, you have apparently done in beautiful, robotically practiced speeches one by one, two and three, is an extremely sweaty and forced attempt to generate a case from the sentences of Speaker László Kövér, which you may have heard publicly, because he never said that he would think of the better and the left as he did in this conversation, and that is no other opinion of László Kövér, either behind closed doors or in front of the widest forum. I do not think we can hear anything new about the fact that there is a part of the Hungarian political class that thinks in a self-determination, self-conscious nation, I quote literally, believes in and works for this. It's a scandal for you, and it's outrageous for you that a government thinks sovereignly. You are now stunned here in Parliament with your head tilted aside and tears in the corner of your eyes to quote Ferenc Gyurcsány, when he tried to direct similar scenes in Hungarian politics, you are outraged that a Hungarian government is thinking sovereignly, not the other part of politics is not talking about people here, Mr. Speaker, politicians who act in the spirit of the political traditions of the self-sacrificing state and self-indulgent nation. That is what you are outraged about, honourable Member. They don't get upset that, by the way, millions of people are compared by your prime minister's candidate to mushrooms kept in the dark and fed with manure, and that's how he talks about millions of people. You are outraged that the Speaker states that there are people who think in a sovereign country and who think in giving up sovereignty, which is the case in many countries of Europe. If you look at European politics, there are sovereigntyists and there are simply globalists who say that we do not have to decide on the future of our own country. And you, Your Honour, are talking about this. However, let me quote a sentence from you that was a very high risk to many people who were worried about the virus when you said that the Chinese vaccine is a completely untested vaccine that has not been confirmed by professionals. Then, according to an article published in an international medical journal, it is an effective vaccine that can save thousands of people from death and tens of thousands of people from the serious consequences of the disease. I think, honourable Member, what you have said is scandalous. And we could not only quote one quote, but also from many other Members. What you said was that the Hungarian people were at great risk when you spoke against vaccines and vaccination, honourable Member, because you said that we should not make our own decisions about inoculating Hungarian people with three or five vaccines, but that others should decide, instead of us, that Hungarian people will be vaccinated more quickly or more slowly, and that if you make another decision to take the Hungarian people more slowly, we should accept this and not try to do it in order that, as this research published in the international medical journal has shown, about 9,500 Hungarian people could be saved by taking the vaccine in time, we have vaccinated them more quickly than the first vaccination and the second vaccination. And this is no different now, as we can quickly put the entire European Union behind us in the third vaccination, and the Hungarian people are safer if I watch the third vaccination than in other European countries, because we were the first to open up the third vaccination during the summer, in August, and we have been injecting them ever since. And a huge success in vaccination week, Congressman. The risk of sovereignty is what you are doing, that the IMF has been called to Hungary to decide on the future of the Hungarian people; that you are really able to sell a City Hall! If you were in the government, this means that you would sell Parliament, because this is the job of Members. Now you're in City Hall, so you're negotiating the sale of City Hall, when the IMF was here, you pawned Parliament's building as a part of the national wealth. [[13.50]] Let's hope we never get to the point where a government can actually think or decide. Honourable Congressman, What you are doing in relation to the disease management is that your policyr says that he can say as a medical professional with a medical degree on the left, that some vaccinations pose a greater risk than catching the disease and thus becoming a victim of the epidemic, whether as a patient or not, with even more serious consequences, that is scandalous, honourable Member. This is insufferable for all democratic and all good people. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The fact that you still have a fellow Member who accused the entire medical system of a fake paramedic is also a scandal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-29-18	Now it's time for Jobbik's representative, Brenner Koloman. I give you the floor.
u2021-11-29-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, including: Where is James Peter? The president's ringing the bell.]] Imre Nagy's redeployment at my parents' house in Sopronbánfalvi was seen on ORF for a proselytical reason, the Hungarian Television was not very successful due to the Nándor-highness with the antenna. The reactions at that time did interest me, as a citizen of Sopron Poncichter, who, through his German mother tongue, was somewhat easy to obtain information on how neighbouring Austria was going through that fantastic period, and in this speech I myself experienced the dawn of a new era. That's why it's terrible for me to live the last 12 years for an extremely liberal politician of my taste, who then studied in Oxford with Soros Scholarship, what he has made our country. For the past twelve years, however, to live as your one-party overpower continues to invade the Hungarian state power, and we have now reached the heart of state power, the secret service, a very, very distressing experience, I must tell you, fellow Members. Moreover, at that time, all of us wished for prosperity and freedom for all our citizens, because we in the People's Party Jobbik [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We consider everyone to be part of the nation, even those who your laughing colleagues disinherit from the nation. We always do! We are looking at the unity of the nation and the prosperity of the nation, and it is therefore horrifying to see the half-feudal dependence on the smaller settlements that your governors have established. Instead of well-being and freedom, you have subjugated a significant proportion of Hungarian citizens and have been sentenced to poverty instead of well-being, as more than 75 percent of Hungarian citizens live in poverty by EU standards compared to EU averages. I know that, of course, in this twelve-year cycle, in the first ten years, you have had great luck in having a fantastic uplifting wealth cycle. [[An uproar and interruptions in the ranks of Jobbik.]] Sometimes they gave something to Hungarian citizens, but now everyone can feel inflation on their wallets and the economic chaos that György Matolcsy, the Fidesz president of the Hungarian National Bank, was like the Great Depression in 2008, and we are running with twindeficit towards a very serious economic crisis, and you are not reacting to it. Moreover, as the elections are approaching, as my fellow Members have said, they are using all the tricks. But when international reporters are here in our country, for example the UN rapporteur, Mrs Irene Khan, then Dániel Papp, a court-convicted forger, dares to say to the public media as a leader that, according to the principles of the BBC, opposition politicians do not enter the public media, as we do, but the public media is still taking place, and that is a statement that is quite out of your mouth. In addition, the rapporteur immediately drew the OSCE's attention to the fact that the parliamentary vote in our country next April was to be viewed very seriously, with a magnifying glass, as already in 2018, the OSCE found that they were still largely free, but you had already used the secret service against Jobbik's politicians. [[Defiance and interrogation in the pro-government ranks.]] You remember Terry Black well, don't you, my colleague Nacsa, the Christian Terry Black? You do remember József Szájer, don't you? [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Now laugh. And by the way, we must say that in January, the OSCE will be invited by my fellow Member, László Lukács, to look into what according to your bill allowing you to vote on the basis of your bill. And let us conclude by saying that, yes, I have read very precisely the statement by Speaker Fat because I work as an empirical linguist in text, Mr Speaker, I find this speech extremely worrying and dangerous, even because next year the national unity government in which the entire political palette is included will stand up. So your speech there, saying that Fidesz is on one side and that on the other side some kind of nationalized coalition violates the majority of Hungarian citizens in our opinion, but next year the national unity government will stand up, who will stand up in the interests of all Hungarians, and I trust the wisdom of the leaders of the secret service. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They know what the country demands. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Crying out of the ranks of the governing parties: Where is James Peter?]]
u2021-11-29-20	Mr. Csaba Dömötör has the floor again.
u2021-11-29-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[István Szilárd Németh: Where is James?]] There is indeed a question of where Peter James is, and we are used to the fact that when James Peter is embarrassed, he asks someone to do his speech for him. That's what happened right now, and he often asks you, it's none of our business, it's Jobbik's business. [[Interviews from Jobbik, including Dr. Brenner Koloman: Thank you for your opportunity.]] In his speech he moved from the Imre Nagy funeral to Terry Black and the UN. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So I'm in a bit of a tough spot when I need to clean this up. But if I start speaking from the title, they will demand fair elections. In addition to getting used to the fact that Peter James doesn't come in, if he gets embarrassed, we are also used to the fact that if the election is approaching, and the opposition parties feel that they don't have enough support, then they start to blame the whole thing on the electoral rules and everything else, and then they launch fake campaigns like this. If you were serious about the rule of law, you wouldn't have joined forces with the post-communists, you wouldn't have joined forces with those who won the special opinion with rubber bullets. If you were really interested in the rule of law, you would raise your voice at least one tiny time when your peers were talking about amending two-thirds of the laws by a half majority. At least once! I can't tell you one thing. He would have raised his word when they broke into public television. And you know why they didn't raise their voice? Because you were there, that's why you didn't pick him up. Then would you raise your voice when left-wing politicians threaten journalists to ban them for years where are the laments? Where are they? Or where are the concerns on your part when your boss is threatening to make artists run for their lives? Jobbik joined forces with the left, so he remained silent in these matters; they became a kind of demoted class of DK, and the party president was exiled to fourth place. If you're not doing well in this election, don't blame us, not the circumstances, but only yourself. As far as living issues are concerned, he may have referred to this, if all is true: we are now in an epidemic, and I have noticed that in the last few minutes there has not been a significant impact on the Hungarians' livelihood issues in any of their left-wing speeches. When you say the government has done nothing in this area, I beg you, if you refuse to argue with me or with us, at least don't argue with the facts. Allow me to mention a few measures: a family tax refund; a credit moratorium; an increase of the minimum wage to 200 thousand, which will be nearly three times more than during left-wing governance; a tax exemption for young people under the age of 25, which has not yet been granted; a green element of the home creation programme. Law enforcement workers receive six months' arms money; doctors and nurses' wage increases are also under way, and wage increases are covered by additional tax cuts. That's what you're saying, nothing. While you guys are doing something for the country week after week, you've been elected a candidate for prime minister who doesn't show any sign of compassion, not even a small sign. As to how socially sensitive they are, the sentences of their candidate for Prime Minister are the guiding principle. While we are involved in the greatest energy price rise in recent years, everyone is looking for an answer to how to reduce energy prices, Péter Márki-Zay thanks you very much, but he does not want to be involved in this because he says not once, but four times, that world market prices should not be stopped at the border. [[14.00]] Price control says it's a communist idea, and if you want to reduce the overhead, you should eat less gas or electricity. And if someone were to be too rich in petrol prices, they kindly, graciously pay attention to the Canadian example, where, after high prices, they began to share car use. That's what your Prime Minister's candidate says. It's a good thing they didn't tell you to walk, though, let's say, to think a little more about it, that's what they said. And what Péter Márki-Zay has presented is the biggest insensitive race anyone has shown on the left in recent years. It's like he's been chasing lifestyle advice before 2010, saying that if you're expensive or you're paying taxes, you can move to a smaller apartment; if you don't like something, you can get out of here. The resemblance is spooky, and the consequence would be the same. And if you're wondering why I'm saying this to you, I'm saying this because you elected this man as your candidate for Prime Minister. The Jobbik and you are part of the left and support this candidate. Well, bear all the consequences. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-29-22	Mr István Simicskó, Head of the Group, will now take the floor before the agenda. Here you go.
u2021-11-29-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the last week, a total of 784,000 of our fellow citizens have been vaccinated, and we have arrived at an important stage in the fight against the epidemic. Of these, 643 thousand have received the third vaccine, and it is even glad that nearly 100,000 of our fellow citizens, 96,000 people, have taken the vaccine so far. It is important that the government has announced this week of action, the vaccination week, and given its success, it will continue this week. We all know that vaccination alone can be effective protection and protection for all of us. So far, today's job is to have 6 120 959 citizens vaccinated; the number of people who received the second vaccination is 5 839 078; and those who have received the third vaccination are nearly 2.5 million citizens, 2 477 399. I would like to say that the work that the government is doing is indeed exemplary, because organizing this work alone is also a huge task, ensuring that the vaccination was carried out at 312 vaccination points by professionals and doctors. The injection points are open from 7:00 a.m. to 19:00 a.m. and anyone can come in and pick up the vaccine without prior registration or registration. I would also like to ask everyone to do this, because this is the only way to stop the epidemic. I would also like to thank the people working in healthcare, because this is indeed a very serious task and very serious work, as all our health workers have been able to do in the last week. International examples also show that, let me just mention the Japanese example or the Israeli example, Japan had more than 26,000 diseases per day at the end of the summer, which has now been reduced due to vaccinations and does not reach a hundred people; 80-90 people will be new infected each day. We see similar qualities in Israel, with a vaccination rate of virtually over 80 percent. That is the goal that we must aim for, that is what we must achieve, and that is the way to proceed. Ladies and gentlemen, While we can see that the government and Hungarian health care are doing superhuman work and are trying to contain the fourth wave of the epidemic, we see that the Hungarian left raises various interesting questions; and we can see that, of course, in recent times, not only have they helped to protect against the epidemic, but they have hindered this protection, they have hindered the work. They teased and teased people against the Eastern vaccines, making our fellow citizens insecure. They have done so and have done so to this day in connection with the illegal migration threat, and we also see that they come to Brussels to embarrass and scold Hungary. And we can also see that the government is being accused of hush-hushing. Let's see what the facts are. It is indeed shocking that in the meantime we see a series of property scandals in the capital; we see a series of real estate scandals in a number of districts led by left-wing mayors, including NewBuda, the XI. in the district. The Grand Masters of tablet writing have practically re-created the table for sale, placing it on several hundreds of municipal assets, hundreds of municipal properties, even the City Hall of Budapest, that it is for sale. It's unbelievable and unimaginable. For me, it was certainly the deepest point on the left when we saw that they were doing bitcoin mining from stolen electricity. Compared to this, all kinds of openly declared 10-percent commissions are now being asked for to sell real estate. The Kelenföld city center is also for sale. Imre László, mayor of DK, who was your mayor and your fellow Member, recently praised Hitler, then mixed Mengele with Mandela, who almost named a public square from Mengela in NewBuda. This is a disgrace, fellow Members, for such people to resign! It is not László Fat who has told me the truth that must be attacked, but you who must be called for self-examination. Ladies and gentlemen, We can rightly say the real Hungarian proverb: the owl says to the sparrow that he has a big head. I ask you not to hinder the protection against the epidemic, nor to sell out municipal property. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Stop this activity. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-29-24	Once again, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2021-11-29-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Everyone's taking advantage of the epidemic. Gergely Christmas hasn't had half an hour to visit the nursing home on Pest Road, and there she sees that she already has medical care for hundreds of elderly, needy people there, but the City Hall has had time during the epidemic to try to attract foreign investors who buy the Town Hall, Gregory Christmas's own workplace. It is outrageous what the left has done, but it is a huge success that we have achieved last week with the Hungarian people in the framework of the vaccination action week, which was such a success that we will extend it to this week as we have seen that Hungarian people were happy to have this opportunity to receive their first, second or third vaccination by registering on the site. As you have mentioned, 784 thousand have taken vaccinations, of which 643 thousand have taken the third, and 96,000 have taken their first vaccination, so the number of people who are now among the vaccinated has increased by almost 100,000 people. This is also important, because although the left constantly attacked the vaccines used in Hungary, however, according to a scientific study, an international medical journal published Hungarian scientific research on vaccinations, which said that all vaccines used in Hungary are very much helpful in helping to eliminate contamination or possible consequences. The vaccines were 88-98 percent capable of preventing fatal outcomes and 69-89 percent were able to protect vaccinated people from infection. This now denies the Hungarian left in an international paper, which tried to prevent defence with false news and petitions. Let us not forget DK's petition and communication that the Chinese vaccine not authorised by the EU should not be used. In this international paper, published in a medical journal, it is also apparent that 9500 Hungarian compatriots have been saved by vaccines that are still in force before the National Assembly with the proposal of left-wing parties. And even Lajos Korózs is a signatory of this, to whom we wish you good health, and we are glad that you will recover from the disease, but he himself signed the proposal banning Sputnik's vaccination, for which he is now grateful to have received it, because he said that this was why his own illness was milder. So he thanks the doctors himself and, by the way, the vaccine participants for doing this, but he maintains his decision proposal that this is dangerous and should be banned in Hungary. In such a situation, politicians rarely get involved, but we trust that they will fully recover from the disease. Ferenc Gyurcsány, quote: I do not want Hungarians to be experimental rabbits when they are vaccinated with Eastern vaccines. How can you relate to this, and how did you try to unsure people that you're not protecting her health now, but using her as a guinea pig for Eastern vaccines? ! Fortunately, everyone has enough beds, equipment, medicine and staff who have been hospitalized in Hungary. [[14.10]] But what do politicians on the left do besides submit an anti-vaccination resolution here in Parliament? There's just been a leak from the recording of a momentary congressman, Endre Tóth said that the epidemic is a great opportunity to contain Fidesz. In the epidemic, he did not see the task of helping everyone in their place, but he saw that it was also a political opportunity to seize power. Momentumists speak, and not only they, but others also speak of the epidemic, sometimes even in an international newspaper, the left-wing backgrounds lose it, that the epidemic is a political opportunity for the left to seize power. Maybe that's why they were acting like this. Or, in the district of Péter Niedermüller, a staffer working at a fire point would be thrown out of the apartment where he stayed completely heartless, while that man is working during the day to get his vaccination, and he would be taken out of his own apartment, rather than helping his activities, but also hindering it. Fortunately, Hungary is not led by the left, but has a national government. It was due to this that we were the second in the European Union, who achieved 25 percent and then 50 percent vaccination, and this is why, since Hungary has had the possibility to give a third vaccine since August, and not only that, but there is also a sufficient amount of vaccine available, so the EU average in Hungary is 20 percent of the inoculation rate with three vaccines, which is once again the European edge and even the European first place. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-29-26	I now give the floor to Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group, as a speaker before the last agenda. Here you go.
u2021-11-29-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, There's a quote coming up. The problem is from a management point of view. So, right, it's a six-party coalition, which is a gift. Someone here smells the possibility of a deal, a deal, and then everyone wants to put you in as a middleman so they can ask for a commission. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. If you wish to receive a commission, please ask for a fee. The bad news is, comrades, this isn't a management problem, this is going to be a whole other problem. The quote doesn't come from me. It's from Gordon Bajnai, your fellow warrior, your former prime minister. He's the one who's now defending himself by taking sentences from him. This is where I note that it is not the first city leader to leave his mouth with such sentences, since András Pikó VIII. It also comes from the mayor of the district saying that I have to pay six parties, which is why I am in a difficult situation. Now, what sentences are those that can be taken out or misunderstood? Perhaps the following is considered to be the case:. As soon as news of such a thing, such a deal, such a coalition has sharks. There's a lot of these sharks swimming in the lake, and in a great coalition, everyone has their parts. That's the reality, that's how it works. That's the reality, that's how it works. The fact is that the recordings made available to the public are clear. Let's take a look at the mayor's reaction. First, the mayor says that it's fake news, these are false, false claims. Evidence of this has been coming up for almost four weeks. Fake news, false allegations, immediately led the mayor to believe that they never intended to sell this building. Then it turned out that they wanted to sell the building after all, because there was an impact assessment. I note that if the mayor didn't know, as you say, it raises the question of what a fool like you is doing at the head of Budapest. Imagine you're sitting here, former mayor colleagues, sitting in your office, and your colleagues are selling the municipal building, integrating your office, and you don't know anything about it. If we assume that's true, it raises questions, but the stupid train didn't stop here. He said they never wanted to sell it. Then it turned out that there was an impact study after all. Then, for the impact assessment, the Mayor said it was a good impact study, but it was rejected last year. Then it turned out that they were discussing how to sell this building in May this year, even this autumn. Then, after it came out and it became clear to everyone that he wasn't telling the truth, Mr. Mayor went on and said that good, good, good, maybe they wanted to sell it, but he doesn't believe what's on these recordings. He doesn't set up a committee of inquiry because he doesn't believe it. Then we just set up that committee of inquiry, whether he believed it or not. The capital will set up the committee, but will not listen to Bajnai, who otherwise sells the capital building. It's a big step for someone who was originally fake news and fake news. Then it's still not over, we're moving on. He says, "Well, there's a case like that, you have to examine it, but Gansperger's on the right." Then when it turns out that it's even a joke, we get to the point that, well, if Gansperger can't be accused of it, then Putin wanted to buy it for Fidesz. [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] So, comrades, on this logic, we're one step away from being Bajnai on the right, which I hope they won't allow themselves. Summa summarum: I am sorry that Bence Tordai is not here, for example, and from what I see, no one from the Dialogue faction, because the people of Budapest were disappointed in the mayor of the vast party. Now we can see why. Not only because he is unfit to run the city, but not simply because he insults the people of Budapest, talks nonsense, gives life coaching advice and practically collapsed the city's public cleanliness, public safety and transportation, but simply because he has been rewoven the town hall of Bajnai-Gyurcsány in less than a year from the acquisition of the mayor's seat. I very much hoped that Mr Tordai would talk about this, but that is not what he spoke about in his speech before the agenda, although that is perhaps what most people would be interested in. In closing, allow me one more thought. In addition to the case, the most shocking thing is that you are no longer afraid that in a few days you will find out that you have lied again, but that you will lie again. Shame on you! [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-29-28	János Fónagy, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-11-29-29	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, I admit, I don't understand your shock. [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] What was all this sudden about you? When, not now, but, I think, I've been preparing for this speech for the third to fourth week, I've tried to put it together in a way that would fit five minutes, make it sharp, make it short, and don't let your emotions take you away. Then I realized, seeing this list of hundreds of rows that should be read here, that there is no reason to be shocked, since nothing happened in 2021 that would not have happened in the last two decades from this political guard. So allow me, and please allow this House to just list it without any commentary. From July 94 to July 98, the privatisation of the Hungarian Commercial Bank, the privatisation of the Budapest Bank, the privatisation of the Hungarian Credit Bank, the privatisation of the Takarékbank, the Mezőbank, the Commercial and Credit Bank. From 95 to 97, the privatisation of Matáv, in 95 the Main Gas, in several stages the privatisation of all regional gas suppliers, in 96-97 their subsidiaries, Dégáz, Égáz, Ddgáz, Kögáz, Tigáz. From 95 to 98 in several stages the MOL, the Tisza Power Plant in 96, the Budapest Power Plant in 96, the privatisation of the Metropolitan Waterworks in 95-96, the Metropolitan Channeling Works in 97. During the Medgyessy-Gyurcsány-éra in 2003, Postabank, Konzumbank, Land Loan Bank, in 2005 the privatisation of Budapest Airport, Ferihegy, in 95 the Antenna Hungária. You mentioned Prime Minister Bajnai. From 2006 to May 2010, under the Gyurcsány-Bajnai-éra, the completion of MOL privatisation, the sale of Malév, the privatisation of Land Loan Bank and MÁV Cargo. Perhaps just a few more companies: Tisza Power Plant, Herz Salamigyár, Hungaropharma, Pannon Thermal Power Plant, Ganz Service Provider, Geodesia and Cartography Ltd., Mátra Power Plant, Book Publishers, University Publishers, and I could classify them as the largest in 190 lines. [[14.20]] Our opposition colleagues are asking us what's wrong with this. The problem is that we had to buy it back from 2010. This had to be bought back almost without exception, because it depends on the Hungarian power supply, the Hungarian gas supply, to make it clear in the apartments that it is warm. It depends on the food industry, because our agriculture is basic production, the food industry depends on it, through energy. There has been a lot of talk recently about construction, since the building of homes has been lively. Ladies and gentlemen, Without a gravel mine, without cement, without concrete steel, you can't build domestic construction. We had to buy it back, and what we haven't been able to buy back to this day, and we're really screwed because we have to import it, very expensively. To sum up, they're asking what we were doing here, sitting here. State wealth increased by 6093 billion from 2010, currently HUF 17 744 billion [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: Jobbik, listen!]] By paying off the government's debt and paying off it, we allowed nearly a million families to get rid of it. That's what's happened in the last ten years. After all, I think there's nothing to be surprised about. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]]
u2021-11-29-30	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Ádám Steinmetz to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2021-11-29-31	Dear Parliament, Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; László Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Csaba Nagy, Fidesz; Bence Tuzson, Fidesz; László Horváth, Fidesz; László Varju, DK; László Hajdu, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; János Stummer, Jobbik. He applied for the speech before the agenda tomorrow: Sándor Burány, Dialogue; Krisztina Hohn, LMP; Lajos Oláh, DK; Zita Gurmai, MSZP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; András Aradszki, KDNP; Balázs Győrffy, Fidesz. Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Anett Bősz, DK; Dániel Z. Karpát, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik. On Wednesday, András Aradszki, KDNP; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik. On Thursday, Gergely Kálló, Jobbik, Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik applied for a speech after the agenda.
u2021-11-29-32	Dear Parliament, I declare that András Téglási, President of the National Election Committee, has informed me that the National Election Committee is acting on 14/2021. No 17/2021 and 18/2021. In its resolution No.3 it validated the national referendum initiatives submitted by the Government on the following issues: Are you in favour of having an occupation of sexual orientation in a public educational facility for underage children without the consent of the parent? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Are you in favour of presenting sexual media content affecting the development of underage children without limitation? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Are you in favour of displaying media content for underage children showing non-change? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Curia has upheld the decisions of the National Election Committee. Transcriptions by the President of the National Election Committee C/17597, C/17598. and C/17694. Available on the website. In view of this, the resolution house rule is 88. I have appointed the Judicial Committee to prepare and submit a proposal for a decision on the ordering of a national referendum on this matter pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2. The submitted proposal for a decision is H/17733. Number 2 is available on the IT network. At the same time, the Judicial Committee is H/17733/1. has initiated an exceptional procedure for the proposal for a decision, which will be decided among the decisions. Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. [[Noise.]] Dear House, We are now deciding on an exceptional proposal. The author initiated that the Parliament would negotiate an exceptional procedure for ordering a national referendum in H/17733. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The rapporteur initiated the possibility of submitting amendments within three hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure; the consolidated debate and the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote shall take place on Tuesday 30 November 2021. Dear Parliament, Rule 62 of the Rules of Procedure Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, i.e. one hundred Members, to order an exceptional procedure. Dear House, Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you, do you accept H/17733. Submitted in exceptional proceedings, according to the national motion. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament ordered a hearing in exceptional proceedings by 114 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 1 abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted at 5:27 p.m. today. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Now, at 2:28 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. I would ask my fellow Members to leave the room quickly and quietly if they have somewhere else to do. [[Noise. Several Members leave the room. It's a short break.]] I would ask my fellow Members to discuss their common affairs in the hallway. In here, the meeting would continue if this were allowed. [[It's constant noise.]] In particular, I would ask my fellow members of the Government to step out into the corridor, so that if they have something to talk about and let the meeting go on. Dániel Z. Carpathian, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for the subject, will respond to the interpellation. The congressman has the floor.
u2021-11-29-33	Mr President, Dear House, The weaker forint is clearly against the interests of the people, the weaker forint is a weaker state, and weak forints can only be wanted by weak people. The fact is, I am not in a position to argue with these statements, nor with the statements of the Minister of Finance, which, even at the 250 HUF/EUR exchange rate, demanded an indeterminate and immediate intervention, and we can see that you have done the same in terms of the petrol price at that time. So in the case of both the petrol and the runaway forint/euro exchange rate, those pro-governmenters who came to the government with conscious, slow forint destruction and destruction achieved that the purchase of every single item in Hungary was more expensive than necessary, simply to serve the interests of their strategic partners. [[14.30]] Before 2010, Fidesz' top leaders gave each other the baton when they had to protest that they had to give up to 250 forints for a euro, now that the exchange rate has deteriorated by more than 100 forints, the government is silent and consciously assists these processes. And when we ask him if he's such a smartphone [[He's showing it to me.]] why is it more expensive than the 2010 forint/euro exchange rate, only because of the deterioration of the forints, or when Mr. Secretary of State's tailor-made suit is 10-20 thousand forints more expensive, simply because you consciously destroyed the forint, but more importantly, why is every vegetable and fruit and basic food more expensive to Hungarians living in a difficult line, even the Hungarian farmer, because of the extremely weakened rate of the forint, the answer is that the government does not have an exchange rate goal. The other government, which seems very national, is very combative, pouring on such a right-sided fake syrup, pretends that it has nothing to do with the exchange rate of the forint. On the other hand, the fact is that Viktor Orbán's two left-handers, Mihály Varga and Matolcsy made mistakes, both of them would have had the opportunity to intervene against the weakening of the forint, and none of them did their job. Strangely enough, it is Matolcsy himself who expresses criticism of the other left hand, by pouring into concrete, pyramids, and cicoma investments the development resources that were obtained very often from foreign exchange loans and external sources, thus supporting unhealthy economic processes. And by playing with the base rate, inflation has not been stopped, the details of the authentic ones have been loosened, but the fact is that the exchange rate has remained as shamefully bad as it is, and today some analysts are talking about the exchange rate of 400 forints. Terrible processes thus emerge. The question is clear and simple: the government finally has the courage to face the fact that it does have an exchange rate target, and it changes it accordingly. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the laws, or do you insist on sneaking around cowardly and not solving a problem that harms everyone? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-11-29-34	State Secretary András Tállai will respond. Here you go.
u2021-11-29-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You know that the rise in the exchange rate is due not to government measures, not to Hungarian economic policy, but essentially to international processes. Indeed, there are many countries in Europe, but throughout the world, struggling with currency weakening and weakening. One of these causes is the weakening of the US dollar and the weakening of other currencies. The strengthening of the US dollar is significant even against the euro, as it is more than 5 percent. This means that it also has a significant impact on the regional currencies, so it affects the forint, which, if we look at it, has been weakened by more than 10 percent since September, but the Polish złoty, for example, has lost nearly 10 percent or nearly 7 percent of the Czech krona, more than 6 percent of the Croatian kuna and 6 percent of the Romanian lei against the dollar. So this is an international trend. But if you look at the same currencies for the euro, you can see that while the forint weakened by 5 percent, the złoty also weakened by 4 percent during this period. And if you look at the whole year's process, you can see that while the forint lost 0.9 percent, the Romanian lei lost 1.7 percent, the złoty lost 2.6 percent of its value. When we talk about the fact that the situation in Hungary is bad because of forint weakening, because it is true that weakening is true, we also need to see that this is an international process and an international trend: other countries are struggling with it. Hungary is a small, open economy, and the local currency responds very quickly and significantly to international trends. However, I think that the government has solved the biggest problem after 2010. Imagine, in this situation, what would happen to foreign exchange lenders who had been driven into foreign exchange lending by the then government, your ally, before 2010. At the time, about 70 percent of the total retail credit was foreign currency. The Fidesz-KDNP government after 2010 had to lead the country out of this problem. Today, due to the weakening of the exchange rate, due to the weakening of the HUF exchange rate, families are not in danger, they are not threatened by a livelihood, as their repayments are obviously not increasing. Therefore, the criticism that this is due to the government is rejected. The government is doing everything in its power to protect Hungarians, and it is fighting against significant forint weakening in other ways, against inflation by increasing incomes, pension supplements, and 13 months' pensions. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-29-36	It's Congressman's word again.
u2021-11-29-37	Dear Secretary of State, We have seen the living example of a weak man wanting a weak forint. I wish you a little national sentiment; well, you have made such a speech here that it is terrible! It's a small, exposed country, international processes, we can't help it, Mr. Secretary, that's not the case. I told you that Hungary's Government is not the only one responsible for this, the Hungarian National Bank is responsible for this issue in the same way, but to point out exclusively to international processes, and to pretend that you had nothing to do with this! ? In 2004, in a period of economic policy that I didn't like, we had to give 252 forints for one euro, in April 2010 265 forints, Mr. Secretary of State, and now 370 forints. This is an amazing low-flying rate, and it seems to be 100 forints higher than your fetish rate, because even among those who took it on at 165 forints, they also converted its credit at a market rate of 256 forints more than 100 forints. They've been looted too, and now [[The president's ringing the bell.]] all Hungarian people are robbing him with weak forints. Shame on you! We'll change that next year. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-11-29-38	I assume the congressman didn't accept the answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will be taken at tomorrow's meeting for each interpellation. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. I give you the floor.
u2021-11-29-39	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Recently, I asked a written question about the curriculum for which the film by Gábor Kálomista was watched with high school children. To see what happened, the press published a number of places that required high school students to look at the propaganda material Elk*rtuk. Karcagon took students from several local and local high schools to the screening, there was an institution where they made the film mandatory, and those who were missing received an uncertified class. I asked the Minister of EMMI a written question and waited for an answer. Who's paying for this propaganda tour? According to you, this is not a county against the provisions adopted by the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law, that:. Each child has the right to the protection and care necessary for his proper physical, mental and moral development. What's the matter with you? I didn't get any answers to these questions, but I got a lecture that nothing I wrote was true, and then, as a good fidesz, Mr. Secretary of State began to refute a statement that I didn't say, or that he said something he didn't write. It doesn't matter whether it is a school or a church district, the point is that it was taken and even had children obliged to attend. As Telex wrote:. The students and teachers consistently said to Telex that they made the screening mandatory in Szentannai, who did not leave, had to justify his absence, otherwise he was given an uncertified class. In vain, the school later denied this if the students themselves and the teachers experienced it as an obligation. [[14.40]] To add, in the disprove of the school, we still don't know who paid for the bus ride. It's so lifelike that they just go to a school with buses and pick up the kids, take them to a movie, and nobody asks anything! At the same time, no one denied that students at the Varró István Secondary School in Karcag were obliged to go to the movies, as the press also wrote. This school, on the other hand, does not belong to the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, which means he is also the maintainer of the vocational school. It is sad that the government takes political brainwashing so seriously that it no longer spares our children, even though it is against the law. And that goes against their own Fundamental Law, but it doesn't matter to the legislators. Bence Rétvári even argued that he did not answer my questions, but sent me two tickets to see them. I'm guessing you asked your coworkers to go out and buy me two movie tickets and put this in the written answer. Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to decide for myself what movie I want to watch, and when I want to go to the movies with whom, and I will give this back to you. I'm waiting for you to answer my questions.
u2021-11-29-40	Mr. Bence of Rétvári can do this. Here you go.
u2021-11-29-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry that you didn't see the movie, and you're talking about a movie here, and what a terrible thing it is that she didn't see the movie. I've seen it, thank you very much, so I don't need tickets in this respect. But if a later date suits you, I'll be happy to buy you two more tickets so you can go and watch it and talk about this movie by seeing it. What did the witnesses say about 2006, the victims? They've started hitting us. It's on my head, and it's broken. I'm crashing. After that, I was beaten until I was completely exposed. Then I got picked up by my hair. The following quote:. For two or three hours the young girls were kneeled, one of them put in the trunk of the police car, and they were brought to the police station. The following quote:. They told us that from now on they do not have a name, but only a number that was written on my palm, for example, but some of them wrote their number on their faces. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you look at the movie, you'll find that it presents the reality even a little bit more edible, not so graphically, and not so fleshyly painful. And how is left - left - sided with this period? Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife, Klára Dobrev, says that I was immensely proud of that speech. To the speech that the then Prime Minister, Ferenc Gyurcsány, admitted to lying to people, admitted to bankrupting the country and admitted to falsifying the budget numbers. Then how did Klara Dobrev talk about subsequent police violence? You said that more police officers were seriously injured than protestors, honourable Member. And you're saying that I write things that aren't real when I quote the Telex article to you? Does that mean the Telex article doesn't write real things? Could this happen in more than one article? I don't know. On the one hand, they take it for granted, on the other hand, they say it's not real. I'm saying it won't hurt anyone to watch this movie, not even you. And it can benefit many, for many were not even alive or very young at the time, and they did not know this period. They did not know what period in Hungary was when people were scratched, tear gas grenades. Even a few days earlier, this film presents not even the 23rd of October, but the previous events. I didn't really see when we came out of the movies that the people who came out said it was a shame to watch this movie, but they said it was a good thing that they saw this movie because they showed us what the left-wing leadership had done then. And that could have happened in Hungary, honourable Member. This film is basically not based on a fiction, but on a series of real events, honourable Member. And if someone wants to see this, and a school offers you the opportunity to see it, let them go and look at it. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: No offer!]] who doesn't want to see it, as in the article you quoted, it was then described that anyone who didn't want it didn't look at it, who wanted to look at it. Then you stand up in Parliament as a Member of Parliament, and you call these teachers, who have shown this film to those who volunteered from the students. By this, you show that you will continue to target everyone here, threaten everyone who dares to show this film to their students on a voluntary basis. And here, you will bring to Parliament the case of teachers who take the liberty of showing their students how Ferenc Gyurcsány's exercise of power actually worked. This is a continuation of the fear that you continue to do in history and now, on which the 2006 events are based. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that he is threatening teachers who are taking volunteer students to see this film here in the Parliament in 2021. Well, shame on you, Congresswoman. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2021-11-29-42	It's time for the congresswoman again.
u2021-11-29-43	How rude of you, Mr. Secretary. Are you trying to tell me that teachers and children volunteered when they revealed that it was mandatory to watch? ! What are you talking about, Mr. Secretary? It would be better to talk about the state of public education in Hungary today, and the important thing for you is that such a film is mandatory if the child wants it, if not, and it can be assumed that the parent himself did not know about it. Mr. Secretary, that's the problem. You're saying something and you're lying all over Parliament, not talking about it again, not what I'm saying. I never said anything you told me at the end. And now what you're doing is really brazen. Mr. Secretary, let me ask you not to buy me movie tickets. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I bought it with my own money! I bought it with my allowance!]] Don't bother. I'm so grown up, I'll decide what movie and when to watch it. You know, I'm gonna give this ticket back to you, and you're gonna have to send someone you don't have to take to this. I don't accept the answer. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition parties. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély enters Dr. Bence Rétvári and hands him the tickets to the movie. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Last Week's Ticket!]]
u2021-11-29-44	The congresswoman therefore did not accept the answer. Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the representative of the Ministry of Human Resources with responsibility and competence according to the subject responds to the interpellation. Gergely Harvesto has the floor.
u2021-11-29-45	Dear Secretary of State, I am not surprised that Prime Minister did not come here to answer my questions, because there is much that has changed in the past year and a half, since the epidemic has made our lives difficult, it has also reached Hungary, one thing has not changed: you are constantly keeping secrets, constantly withholding data, refusing to give proper information to the country. They're actually talking nonsense. The mask's good, the mask's no good. Schools stay open, schools close. We need closure, we don't need closure. There'll be a fourth wave, there won't be a fourth wave. And I could continue this line forever. The fact is, there is no way for the people of this country to get to know the data on which your decisions are based, and there is no way for them to know the logic by which these decisions are made. Authenticity is one of the most important issues of disease control. If this is lacking now, it is difficult to expect citizens to make rational, prudent decisions. Without the need for completeness, let me ask you a few questions that will not be answered. How many hospitals are on the verge of functioning today, maybe beyond that? How many surgeries and tests are being postponed these days because of the stress of health care? Where is the biggest problem in the country, and where can we feel relatively safe? Why are they even hiding infection data broken down into counties and settlements from municipalities and city leaders? How much of a hundred hospitalized covidos are vaccinated and how many unpopulated patients? If you're saying that vaccination is the solution that we agree with, then why don't you support it with numbers, why are you still keeping secrets about this? Despite the vaccination, what vaccinations were taken in the hospital, what difference does the effectiveness of the vaccines appear to be? The fact that in Western countries with similar rates of grafting, there are far fewer people in the hospital, and I might add, much fewer people die than we do, does it have anything to do with the use of the Eastern vaccines that Fidesz has picked up? What's going on in our kindergartens and schools? How many kindergarten groups, how many school classes aren't working? How many children are at home in an emergency quarantine without providing them with the possibility of online education? Why haven't we heard from contact research in months? Have you stopped contact research? If so, why and when? And my last question is, how long are you going to keep this untidy secret about the things that our lives depend on? Because vaccination against the virus protects us, but most vaccines don't protect us from a dilettante, all-inclusive, irresponsible government. [[14.50]]
u2021-11-29-46	Once again, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go.
u2021-11-29-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government was among the first governments in the world to establish an operational tribe to combat the epidemic, which coordinates the activities of health and other bodies. We were among the first to announce that as often as possible, the operational tribe would give a press conference. We have opened a separate website, the koronavirus.gov.hu, where information about the disease is available to everyone on a continuous basis, with daily updates, you often quote it here in Parliament, and with vaccine information we also tried to create a special thematic website on vaccinations. On the other hand, you have done nothing but attack the vaccination, attack the disease control: there was a camuvide in which doctors and nurses were attacked, where vaccine manufacturers were attacked, you, DK, said that we should not use Chinese vaccines that are not authorised by the EU, we must protect the Hungarians from Orbán's human experiment, so they talked about Eastern vaccines, or they should be banned directly in their petition, saying that Eastern vaccines should be banned, that Hungarian people should be banned, human trials, untested, counterfeit, experimental rabbits. In fact, one of their policy makers said, adding a shovel to all this, that the disease is better than one or another vaccine. It was a truly irresponsible campaign, and they can't come out of it, I see, but they are constantly attacking vaccines now, honourable Member, while talking nonsense. For example, Ágnes Kunhalmi says that those of you who were then talking about opening up from left-wing politicians were not actually calling for opening. So when you called for an opening, you actually called for a closing, and when you called for a closing, you called for an opening. You can see that not only in Hungary, but also in every country in the world, as some of the waves of the epidemic come, the measures continue to tighten, and as the epidemic waves subside, the measures will ease. This was the case in Hungary in terms of education and all other health services, as is the case in other countries around the world. We are very pleased that, although it was not possible to go to schools at a certain time, education could take place online and no one lost a year. If we had taken your proposal, not only the graduates, but the Hungarian students would have lost a year. [[Gergely Harvesto: No, it's not true!]] In hospitals, the doctors who did work and in front of the nurses have their hats off. That is why the greatest increase in medical wages of all time is taking place in Hungary, where we increase the wages of doctors more than twice, and we increase the wages of nurses by 72 percent, and they also received a one-time special allowance of HUF 500 000 because, indeed, they were in a situation unknown, and they were better placed than in other countries, even France, Spain or Italy, France, where they could not care for cancer patients, in Italy, where the patients were cured in hospital parking, in Spain, where the elderly were not provided in certain places in nursing homes. We have seen a situation in several countries where doctors have been called in from abroad or patients have been taken abroad. Fortunately, this did not happen in Hungary thanks to doctors and nurses. All data are public, press conferences, government information, press conferences of the operational tribe about the spread of the virus are ongoing, and we try to provide the widest range of information every day. Honourable Congressman, As regards vaccinations, you are questioning the effectiveness of Eastern vaccines, which, according to the article published in the International English Medical Journal of Clinical Microbiology and Infoction, saved more than 4,000 Hungarian people. There are the exact figures, honourable Member, with a complete scientific need that vaccinations, all vaccinations used in Hungary, protected Hungarians from the fatal consequences by 88-98 percent and protected them from infection by 69-89 percent. You can read all of this in a scientific international paper. These aren't false news, they're scientifically supported facts. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-29-48	Will you accept the answer? I'm asking the congressman.
u2021-11-29-49	Dear Secretary of State, The thing is, you forgot to answer the questions. He forgot to answer how the Hungarian health care capacity stands, how many surgeries need to be postponed. He forgot to answer why they would not disclose the proportion of patients who were vaccinated today and who were not vaccinated, so that we could jointly convince society that vaccination is working well with these data. It also does not provide any information on the proportion of each vaccine type, which would be an easy way to convince people that the vaccines you prefer, which are not accepted by the European Union, are good. I must tell you, however, that you look down on the work of Italian, French and other doctors here, and you have not answered the question of why four times as many people die in Hungary as the average of the European Union is in proportion to the population. And until you give me a fair answer to that question, I'm not at liberty to accept your answer. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2021-11-29-50	Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a wallet for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. I give you the floor.
u2021-11-29-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Well, we are also faced with the situation that we will not be answered to our very many questions. In recent years, we have had many debates, and we have said that we believe that nuclear energy is not green, it is not cheap, it is not safe, and we will probably never agree on this, but it is clear to everyone in Hungary that your Paks II project is bleeding from a thousand wounds. You gave this project to the Russians without a proposal, that only they would be able to achieve it, and then about two years ago we heard from you that the Russians were learning the Hungarian technical environment. Now we are faced with the fact that the National Atomic Energy Office has not issued a permit to set up by the promised deadline for many, right, at the end of September. We could see that Minister Péter Szijjártó immediately rushed to Moscow to negotiate the project schedule in the centre of Rosatom, but they did not give any meaningful information to the Hungarian public. The Paks II. Zrt. did not provide any information as to why the authorisation was refused, nor did we receive any information from the National Atomic Energy Agency. I asked Mr. Prime Minister here in the hour of immediate questioning, and he did not tell me what the most important reasons were, the most important problems. I also asked the Minister in writing at all the existing forums, and even sent an invitation to Mr Lihachev, the CEO of Rosatom, to finally give an answer to the Parliamentary commission, and he did not come, and he referred to you to answer these questions. Minister, not so long ago, last week, in fact at the annual ministerial hearing, I also sent questions, and at that time you promised that I would get a reply in writing. Well, I didn't get one. All we've learned at this hearing is that there are 51 open questions, problems that have not been granted permission, but you haven't told us exactly what these questions are. However, it turned out from the Minister's reply that there is no reason for the Ministry, or there is no reason for the Minister to keep secrets or the Office of Atomic Energy. He referred to the fact that the answers or information might cause some confusion in the Hungarian public opinion. And I think, Minister, that the Hungarian people have the right to be informed, and the confusion is caused by the lack of a meaningful response to nuclear energy. Therefore, my questions to Minister, and I hope very, very much that we do not have to deal with the answers in a legal way: what exactly are these problems, so what are the most important problems that cause the issue of the permit to be delayed? Is the issue of earthquake security one of the 51 open questions you mentioned? So this was one of the questions that the Atomic Energy Bureau was waiting for more answers. Does the question of cooling exist, so the question of cooling new blocks, among the 51 problems you mentioned, not specifically mentioned, or the question of digging the work pit, that this could be a problem for the existing nuclear power plant blocks? So this is the subject of the deficiency procedure, and I would also like to have an answer, Minister, as to why the necessary deeper geological investigations are not being carried out before anyone does the earthwork. I am very confident that at last the Minister will provide meaningful answers to the Hungarian public. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-29-52	I'll give Minister Süli the opportunity to respond. Here you go.
u2021-11-29-53	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, We have discussed these issues several times here in other forums. I can now confirm that the authority did not reject the application for a licence, as he used this term several times, but called for us to fill in the gap that the documentation submitted was 283,000 pages, and to the end, 410,000 pages that had to be reviewed. In this 410,000 pages, along with small comments, I said, he made 500 comments. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) If you project it to a page number, you found an observation per 800 pages. These comments could be resolved without any complicated discussions or documentation, that 450 questions were clarified. There are 51 more questions that need time for the authority to review. [[15.00]] We have reviewed these questions, and we can answer all the questions together with the Russian party. So there's no secret about that. If I told you in detail equations or errors in page numbers, it would be incomprehensible to know this without the entire context. What I can tell you is that the important issues that we have also clarified more often than the question of the Danube, the levels of cooling water in the Danube, the temperature of the cooling water or the earthquake protection issues, the issue of the installation permit was all clarified in 2017. Since then, it has appeared from the mouths of various Austrian and other speakers that they are not sewn up. Of course, Austria, like other countries, is against nuclear energy. He's against it because he didn't launch a previously built power plant in 1978, and since then... Mr. President, I have four minutes...
u2021-11-29-54	It's three minutes. I'm sorry.
u2021-11-29-55	Okay, I just heard a little ringing and I didn't know what it was. Therefore, these questions were reassured at that time by the applicant for authorisation, and the authority has repeatedly stated that no new circumstances have arisen. So that's not what the questions are about. And since this is a professional work paper, 51 issues are obviously completely unnecessary. Here, too, I can confirm that the examination of the Brussels Commission took three years, in which it found that the Hungarian State was absolutely right to give it it without competition, this investment will result in a return of 7,35 percent on full-time profits, and this will come out to 8.4 percent on the basis of the summer data. We have amended the financing agreement here in Parliament, and the Russian party has also done so. Therefore, the financing of the investment is guaranteed and will be repaid by the production of the two blocks. The start of the 31th repayment will guarantee this. The entry of the blocks is expected by the entry into service of 2029-30. And it's a false claim that we're indebting the public with this repayment. We do not tax it, because the two blocks will produce the payment cover, which, as I said, will guarantee a proper profit for the Hungarian State. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-29-56	Thank you very much, Minister János Süli. I would like to ask Mr Crusade Leader, Congressman, to accept the ministerial answer.
u2021-11-29-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Well, Minister, I feel that the fact that you didn't receive the permission for the final deadline announced by you a year ago for Project Paks II is virtually a failure. This is the word-screwing that did not grant the permission of the authority to refuse to grant the authorisation or submitted a deficiency. He did not grant the authorisation, he refused the authorisation because the documentation was not suitable for granting the authorisation. Dear Minister, He mentioned a number here. We have also mentioned several times that there have been five hundred problems of different weight during the authorisation. I think that if there is only one problem that there is no reassuring answer to, then the documentation is already invaluable and wrong, and then it is quite right for the authority to reject it. He also mentioned that Austrian environmentalists were officially concerned by the Austrian environmental authority. That's the Paks II. Zrt. It was based on a geological study carried out by him, so it was not based on Austrian information, but on Hungarian information. They want to build a nuclear power plant above an active fault line. These questions remain unanswered. If you say, Minister, that there is nothing to hide, then why don't you answer what I asked you and make this information public? In this way, I cannot accept this answer. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-29-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellár, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:, What measures does the government intend to respond to the record weak HUF? It's an address. Congressman Tamás Mellar is the one who has the floor.
u2021-11-29-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to apologize to you immediately for repeating a little bit of what my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Karpát, has just said, but I am forced to do so because I cannot deviate from the material that we have submitted in writing. So we're talking about weak forints. I agree with Viktor Orbán on a few matters, but I also acknowledge that the Prime Minister is right in that the weaker forint is clearly contrary to the interests of the people, the weaker forint is a weaker state, and weak forints can only be wanted by weak people. Indeed, as the Prime Minister said, the weakening of the forint actually means that he is once again quoted as stealing money from people's pockets. In the previous reply, the Secretary of State indicated that the dollar is weakening the forint, and that is the fundamental reason for the forint weakening, and we cannot do anything about it. However, the situation is not so, because the forint is essentially weakening because the government has been pursuing a very aggressive economic policy since 2018, resulting in debt-to-GDP ratios above 80 per cent, a government deficit of 8 per cent and a record inflation rate. However, if inflation is at record height, then it also follows that this will force depreciation, because if there is no depreciation, then it will obviously weaken the profitability of exports and competitiveness. So this is basically the result of the government's faulty policy. Why the government is so irresponsible, obviously I won't get an answer to that, but I'd like to ask you why you're not trying to make it up to people. In the countries west of us, governments have given serious social support to their citizens, but they have not increased the family allowance, old-age pensions, the salary base for the civil servants' pay table for 11 years now, and could still be classified. On this basis, I ask you what the government is planning to do, what measures the government intends to take to respond to the record weak forint, how it intends to compensate the losers of inflation, who have an irresistible livelihood. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-29-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2021-11-29-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If you'll allow me, I'm going to talk about the measures the government has taken so far, based on your question, on the record weak forint. First of all, you said that one of the reasons I fundamentally agree with is aggressive stimulus policy. That's right, that's exactly what the government wants. Its purpose is precisely to make this country work. The country should operate and work in such a way that jobs remain and therefore pursues a supportive policy vis-à-vis businesses. It pursues a supportive policy vis-à-vis businesses that have an idea of how to expand their business, how to create new jobs, face technological challenges and possibly transform them. And there is a very serious result; there is a result. In your interpellation, you wrote that, according to Eurostat, inflation is the third highest in the European Union in Hungary, but you have not written it down and told us that we are also at the forefront of Europe in terms of economic growth. Nor did he say that we were the first in Europe to return to the economic performance that we had before the crisis. Nor did he say that economic growth, the fact that the country is working and the country is growing, is the result of a high employment rate and unemployment is constantly falling. Well, that's the result. As a matter of fact, what the Prime Minister said nearly twenty years ago, when we were not even in the European Union, you are bringing him to Parliament as a university teacher, well, let me answer that: yes, the money is being stolen from people's pockets. Then that was the case, because they didn't make up for the high rate, the high inflation. [[15.10]] Now you're asking what kind of compensation is being made. If you don't mind, I'll begin to mention that to you for the rest of my time. The increase in wages by tax reduction, the reduction of taxes on businesses that give jobs, the reduction of GDP; real wage growth in the country since 2013. The supplement to pensions, the pension premium, the pension supplement, and in February, if all goes well, the payment of the 13th month pensions. The reimbursement of personal income tax to parents and families who are entitled to family allowances, up to the amount of personal income tax on the average wage. The rent cuts. In fact, in politics at European level, the importance of this government's protection of the population by keeping the overhead, the overhead, low. This is of great importance right now. The result is that overall, although this is a difficult period, because we are in a crisis and, unfortunately, inflation is high and forint weakening is significant, yet consumption is not increasing And the goods that people can buy aren't reduced either. In English: their standard of living has not been reduced, and that is the most important, Mr. Congressman. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-29-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Mellar to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-11-29-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unfortunately, I cannot accept the Secretary of State's reply because he has not answered the questions I have asked. The question was not about what the government was spending in general or about spending a lot of money, but about why it was not about providing support to people in need, i.e. I was questioning social support. Moreover, his argument was wrong, since this stimulating economic policy cannot be maintained, since it is already apparent that a powerful twin deficit is emerging, and in the coming years it is certain that a strong restraint must be taken, no matter what the government will be. Moreover, high economic growth alone is neither justified nor can be protected by the high growth rate of the economy between 2000 and 2006 but at the same time it was unsustainable, just as it is now. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-29-64	Thank you very much. The congressman didn't accept the answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Mr.Barna Pál Zsigmond, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology: It's an address. Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond has the floor.
u2021-11-29-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The European Union is currently facing a number of crises of different importance, but at the same time. Europe's borders are once again besieged by migrants, the epidemic needs to be fought again, and ideological disputes in the area of child protection are continuing. In addition, Brussels is the leader of the international network which, under the climate protection preserve, seeks to impose brutal taxes on everyone who uses, lights, leads to grass and cars, that is to say, European families. In Western Europe, energy prices have not increased by one and a half to two times in recent months, and the impact of these measures is barely in place. And it is quite worrying that, due to the energy crisis, both in Germany and Austria are preparing the population for permanent blackouts and the shutdown of heating. The price of natural gas on European markets increased by 400 percent in one year, while electricity prices increased by 80-100 percent. Apart from Hungary, there has been an increase in overhead costs in all European countries, for example in Vienna twice the price of electricity in Budapest, almost 3.5 times the price in Berlin, and similar rates in the case of gas. If the government were to introduce the market prices forced by the left, an average Hungarian family would pay HUF 386 thousand more per year than it is now. The left of Gyurcsány-Márki-Zay is on the side of multinational companies and large energy companies, against Hungarian consumers. The joint left-wing candidate, Péter Márki-Zay, continues today to say that the reduction of the rent is a debauchery; it was foolish to do so, instead of using less water, use less electricity, or use less gas. In order to make the economy sustainable, you do need to feel the energy price increase the left-wing candidate. He believes that the solution to high petrol prices is to replace the current one with a smaller car. Dear Secretary of State, We are well aware of this attitude: between 2002 and 2010 the fees were raised fifteen times. Gas prices increased by 206 percent and electricity by 97 percent under left-wing governance. Taking into account their recent statements, how do you see that there is a risk of a reduction in the costs and that we can protect the cost reduction? Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-29-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda.
u2021-11-29-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, This government is the government of the reduction of electricity, and due to the reduction of gas, people pay the least in Hungary, and electricity is only cheaper in Serbia than in European countries today. The increase in overhead prices was stopped by the civil national government already in 2010. In 2013, the reduction of the rent started, which resulted in a 25% lower price for gas and electricity for Hungarian families in two years. However, the essence of the reduction is not only to protect the security of Hungarian families, although this is the most important element, but also to reduce the impact of measures on inflation. In the same way, reducing petrol and diesel prices can also contribute to curbing inflation, as can the reduction of the overhead. This is a competitive advantage, in fact, but they do not understand it in the European Union either. If there were to be a reduction in the costs in Europe, not only would it be possible to prevent the energy crisis, but also to have a serious competitive advantage for Europe. Unfortunately, Brussels is still completely adamant and, with its irresponsible decisions, the bureaucrats in Brussels are creating an energy crisis in Europe. Unfortunately, the branch of Brussels bureaucrats in Hungary, the Hungarian left, also wants to pursue this faulty policy. We can all remember the time when Hungary was under left-wing governance and put the country on the brink of bankruptcy. They also put the country on the brink of bankruptcy in energy policy, as they played the utility companies abroad, and allowed these companies to win on Hungarian families and take profits out of the country, raising the price of gas to three times the price and double the electricity. With these measures, left-wing governments wanted to achieve a kind of energy union in Brussels and to deliver everyone to the market. We have no doubt, honourable Member, that I would do the same today, and that it is also said openly. Péter Márki-Zay, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Left, is also violently attacking the reduction of the rent, and does not want to stop the increase in energy prices, and also thinks that those who want to maintain the reduction in costs and oppose migration are not more hard to respond because of my father's eye and the dignity of the Parliament. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] I quote Péter Márki-Zay the form of the reduction of the rent that Viktor Orbán has invented, he does not want to maintain; he says: he does not want to maintain it. Cynically, he says that people would rather use less water, gas and electricity, buy smaller cars. It's not the bun, it's the big, real left-wing politics. [[15.20]] It supports Brussels' energy price increase plans and demands market price regulation, which would mean that energy prices and overhead costs would rise again in Hungary, and said that it does not support any kind of social component in the petrol price, i.e. it is against the official price. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This is completely outrageous! We'll protect the cost reduction. Thank you for your patience. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-29-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr. Barna Pál Zsigmond to accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2021-11-29-69	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, I accept the Secretary of State's answer. Indeed, Mr Secretary of State, this left, which now sends an arrogant message to the Hungarian people, is the same left that destroyed the country before 2010, the same left, led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, which sold the utility service providers, which the national government has now had a great deal of difficulty buying back, and this left has heard Mr Keresztes' interpellation attacking Paks II first. Special recognition is given to Minister Süli, who, many times, with unwavering calmness and expertise, repels these unfounded and unprofessional attacks, as Paks is the guarantee of a low electricity price. So, indeed, as long as there is a national government, there will be low prices, if the left were to take power from Péter Márki-Zay, then they would regulate the rent on a market basis, and that would mean that, under the current circumstances, an average Hungarian family would pay at least HUF 400,000 a year more for their expenses. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-29-70	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsigmond Barna Pál. Dear Parliament, Congressman Miklós Seszták, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, How did the vaccination program change, what is the defence strategy during the fourth wave? It's an address. Congressman Miklós Seszták has the floor.
u2021-11-29-71	Dear Secretary of State, Over the past year and a half and the epidemic waves have proved that the only way to successfully fight against the corona virus is through the full cooperation of society, through the sacrifice of our scientists, specialists and health workers. The vaccine is the most effective antidote for the disease that has already claimed over five million victims worldwide. Our aim in Hungary is to ensure that people, older people, middle-aged people and young people are vaccinated as much as possible. This is why the Fidesz-KDNP government has decided to place the vaccination programme on the widest possible basis. This year was the year of mass vaccination. There has been a sufficient number of vaccines from both the West and the East, with which a large majority of the population lived, which means more than six million inoculated. It's a vaccine, and anyone can get a third shot. Hungary made this available for the first time in Europe, so now more than two million people have received their third vaccination. In addition to elderly citizens, mass vaccination of young people has also begun. It is safe to say that the coronal virus vaccine also works during the period of spread of the delta variant, as it significantly reduces the likelihood of hospitalisation, serious illness, and also slows the spread of the virus. Dear Secretary of State, The coronal virus is attacking again, the number of infections is rising again, which led to the need for restrictive measures again. We must say again: those who are not vaccinated are in danger. In addition, they pose an increased risk not only to themselves but also to fellow humans, which is why the number of vaccinations needs to be increased. In order to increase grafting, employers may require their employees to take vaccination and employees in the public sector must take vaccination. In the municipalities, the mayor can decide who to prescribe it for. There's a steady increase in grafting throughout the country. And last week, vaccination week took place across the country at the hospital injection points, where arrivals were expected even for the first, the missed second or third vaccinations without an appointment. There were five safe vaccines at your disposal. On the basis of the above, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State: how has the vaccination programme changed? What is the government's defense strategy during the fourth wave? What is the experience with the results of the vaccination week? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-29-72	Thank you, Congressman Sestas. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-11-29-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Hungarian vaccination programme was also highly recognised at international level, so WHO Regional Director Hans Kluge said that he has visited Hungary several times now that they are conducting an exemplary vaccination campaign in Hungary and consider the vaccine to be a life-saving tool, whose question goes far beyond geopolitics. But Tedros Adhanom Gebreyesus WHO Director General also acknowledged the activities of the Hungarian government and said that the government had made the right decision when it had overshadowed itself with certain means of protection, because it is better to have more of a device during an epidemic than to have a missing item. And the international Nikkei index is among the first among the most defensive countries in the world, so those who look at Hungarian vaccinations from abroad compared to other countries, the Hungarian defences, they acknowledge this. If we compared what would have happened if the government had listened to the left, we certainly wouldn't have had six vaccines so quickly, but we only had four vaccines, and we would have had a lot less people inoculated in time, so before they were infected, there wouldn't be enough equipment in hospitals. We know the sentences of the various politicians on the left, starting with the fact that Peter James thinks there's some Chinese stuff used to inoculate a million Africans or a million Chinese, and that's what the government wants to bring here. They said that this was the way that András Fekete-Győr said the Eastern vaccine. The president of the MSZP talked about an untested, unconfirmed vaccine, and Gergely Arató said that they did not want any of this, and DK also started a petition that they did not ask for the Eastern vaccines and tried to dissuade the Hungarian people, produced false news, and, where they knew, prevented the defence when it was supposed to be held together. They thought, as they said then, one of their backsmen, and now the politician of the Momentum, I quote, is literally a great opportunity to reduce the Fidesz. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's how they looked at disease control. What was important to them was that they tried to attack the disease treatment, to unsure people. If the epidemic drags on, there are more sick people and more economic downturns, they thought it would be easier for them to get back into power. On the other hand, every hospital had enough beds, equipment, medicines and staff for everyone who was hospitalized, so fortunately there were no cases that occurred not only in Central European countries, but also in Western European countries when patients were ill with coronal viruses or not with coronal viruses, but because of the epidemic they did not receive adequate treatment. Hungary has made record fast progress in the vaccination programme, the second fastest European country to achieve 25 percent and 50 percent vaccination, and now we are the first to receive the confirmation third vaccination. While the European average is 8 percent, in Hungary it is 2 1/2 times this, 20 percent. This is thanks to the week of action mentioned by the Member, where a lot of people have indeed come. 784,000 people came and gave themselves the first, second or third shots in a week. We are pleased that this week has been such a success, which is why the government has decided to extend and this process can continue this week. In an international medical journal in English, we published the full scientific report of the vaccinations used in Hungary, the result of this research, which shows that all vaccines used in Hungary were highly effective. The vaccinations used in Hungary were able to prevent the fatal outcome by 88-98 percent, while the protection against infection was 69-89 percent. I think this is very important that we have tried, as far as possible, to protect Hungarian people in the epidemic and to establish security. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-29-74	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. I'll ask Congressman Seszták to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-11-29-75	Thank you, Mr Secretary, I accept your reply. As a matter of fact, Hungary is operating again, it is also operating under the fourth wave, and in order to remain that way, the necessary and inevitable steps must be taken. The faction supports the measures taken by professionals and the operational tribe, but the goal is clear: as many people as possible should be vaccinated, because those who are not vaccinated are in danger of life. Thank you for your answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[15.30]]
u2021-11-29-76	Thank you, Congressman Sestas. Dear Parliament, Tibor Nunkovics, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister responsible for innovation and technology:. Let us see clearly on the field. It's an address. Congressman Tibor Nunkovics has the floor.
u2021-11-29-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, You are aware that Hungary's busiest roads are the number 10. If you travel on this road every day, you can meet traffic jams, long-kilometer plugs, and, say, 30 or 40 kilometers may take up to an hour and a half or two. This road is getting worse, and unfortunately, Budapest and Esztergom are almost everyday, but even between Budapest and Almásüzitő, accidents can be attributed to the poor condition of the road. I have spoken many times about how to ease the traffic on Route 10 to the M10 highway or the expressway, or even to avoid it, as you like to build it, but obviously the Pilis, as a very important natural treasure, will not be harmed. This year, it was said by the government that I would actually like to finish the M0 ring in sack form; frankly, I was actually glad to hear this announcement. In our area, I can say with a little exaggeration that almost doesn't matter, just make sure that the M0 ring is ready in the form of a ring or a bag, but if you're voting for the bag shape, then so be it. This would look like an M0s north section, an M10 highway or expressway that would go from Ürem to Esztergom, Kesztölc and then join the M100 road, which you planned to start this spring. Now the M0 Northern concept has recently fallen, or at least it will slip, and the M10 has been revealed by a public interest request that people who live here would actually have to wait another 30 years, but the problem is that the people who live here don't have 30 years. No misunderstanding, and I would like to state here that I support the construction of the M100 road, and I also support the fact that it is now being built, and I do not want the M100 to slide for some reason. So, in case there's any other comment in your press about this, I hope I've been able to make a final statement about this. When we met Mr Secretary of State, you agreed on how to reduce the turnover of the region here, and, in fact, I think we can say that we agreed that this investment should be carried out in bag form. It's the only thing you still don't understand. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] That if this doesn't happen, there's going to be an extra 20 percent traffic on Route 10 you have four minutes, not me, sorry if the M100 is the only one that's going to be built, under which the traffic in the area will really collapse. So I ask Mr. Deputy Minister that he is willing to build the M100 at the same time, at the same time as the northern section of M0 and the M10 highway. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-11-29-78	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-11-29-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Seeing the desperate situation of Jobbik and the moral depth into which Peter James led the party, that you finally realized that it was time to start working, perhaps you realized that it would not be enough to win the pre-election that you considered democratic; it was not difficult, as the left-wing parties played this in advance. Let's just say that in order to run alone and win, as has happened in your case, it doesn't take much talent, and let's face it, neither does work, but so much for left-wing democracy. I have good news, Member: the government and the pro-government representatives and politicians of the regions concerned are working hard to make it as good as possible for the people who live there. You should thank them for this, too, if you wanted to do it fair, you should thank Pál Völner, then Eszter Vályos, Tamás Menczer and, not least, Csaba Gór, who are doing it every day in the northern Buda regions and in Komárom-Esztergom County. We have said on numerous occasions that we have written to you personally, Mr honourable Member, that the Government is treating the development of road transport in Hungary as a priority. Despite the difficulties caused by the coronal virus epidemic, we continue to work throughout the country to continuously improve the quality of road transport, as the creation of a modern and secure road network is important for the Hungarian people, businesses and the entire Hungarian economy. Therefore, the development of the section of the M100 road between Esztergom-M1 and the reconstruction of the associated road network elements will be launched, thus making the 102 main road unloadable. This also affects the road network connections of the Zsámbék Basin and the North Buda agglomeration. Although you have said otherwise in this speech, we can say that your position is not clear at all, because in other cases you, honourable Member, want to drill this investment with Bernadett Szél. You want me to quote your words: with my opposition colleague Bernadett Szél, we will also make proposals to build the M100 or M10 or at least a 10 bypass with the northern sector of M0. After all, do you really claim, honourable Member, that you are working for the interests of the people in the region, while you are trying to stop an important development of outstanding importance for the region and the county, which is just beginning? However, honourable Member, it has begun to plan the construction of a bus lane in Budakes for the relief of the agglomeration in Northern Buda, which will reduce congestion by triggering part of the traffic across the region; we hope that you will not want to at least drill this path. Páty will have the exit of the M1 motorway, the road which escapes Pátyot from the western direction and the road connecting the village with Telki; we hope he doesn't want to drill this either. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We are constantly working with the local leaders of the region, the government actors, and the Members of Parliament concerned to make new developments. Please accept my reply. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-29-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Nunkovich to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-11-29-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, I cannot accept the answer, because the Secretary of State is not telling the truth. This spring, when we met you in person at the Ministry, you know very well, I said that the M100 does not need to be shifted, but we simply need to build it at the same time as the M10 and the M0 northern sector, precisely so that the current 10 will not be under any more stress. What I don't understand is why you're trying to distract me, why you're trying to say something other than what we said at the time, or what I said in any speech, Mr. Secretary of State. That's a pretty nasty thing to do. Besides, I don't know what Peter James has to do with Route 10 or how the first quarter of his speech came here, but unfortunately, we didn't hear anything concrete about what I asked you. But here's the thing: how much is the M100 gonna cost every kilometer, an expressway? Over 10 billion forints per kilometer? Let's think about that then. I don't accept the answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-11-29-82	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a wallet for the families: the Hungarian population is constantly declining, yet fertility centers are being removed! Why? ! It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. [[15.40]]
u2021-11-29-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to point out that it is also a pleasure that the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, who can answer everything, will not answer my questions, I hope, but you, Mr Secretary of State, if you are not available. I have decided to apply now that if you do not answer our questions, I will resubmit them and ask them again because they do not comply with their legal obligations. In the last two years, since the nationalization of fertility clinics began, I have asked questions more than once, and I usually don't get answers to these questions. After the nationalization, which would have started in 2019 and lasted until the middle of 22 and it turned out that it was almost over in 2021, we asked a lot of questions about the experience. First, most importantly, what makes fertility centres better, more efficient if everything falls into the hands of the state? Of course, when we asked you why you had to take this step so quickly and drastically, you claimed that you wanted to stop the abuse that happened at the private clinics. But when we asked what abuse they were, they couldn't really give us an answer, nor could they have been E-level. The question must also be asked that in the public sector, there is no abuse. We know that it's not white and it's not black, that one thing we say is that there's only abuse, and the other thing we don't. Since 2014, I have been asking for data on how many children have been born in Hungary each year through flask treatment. You won't answer that. In 2017, a response was given to the size of four thousand children. Then one of KSH's senior employees admitted that these reports have not been prepared since 2014 and that they are essentially breaking the law. And we have not known these data since then, because these reports are not prepared; or there is another worse one, for some reason we cannot know these reports when they are prepared. I've tried several times to tell you these data. After all, professionals have resorted to a different method, and they have found that 1900-2600 children can be born against the 4,000 you say. But we are talking about a very important problem, and I think that there is not enough to talk about. In addition, it was pointed out in the summer that precisely because of nationalisation, very, very many families will decide not to use fertility treatment in the state system, but to flee abroad. I think that's the biggest problem when we talk about fertility treatments. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Secretary of State, then answer why these reports are not being prepared, or we are the only ones who cannot know them. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-11-29-84	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary.
u2021-11-29-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would remind you that according to the house rules, you should have told me about the written interpellation. That's not what you did. And I have a duty to respond to your written interpellation, which, by the way, raises demographic issues. Dear House, In 2010 Hungary had a family-friendly turnaround, the government's goal is to make it easier to start a family, have children and raise children in Hungary. We all remember that this family-friendly turn of events was also necessary, because before 2010, they did not support, they did not help, they made it difficult for families, they abolished the support for home creation at the time, they abolished the tax relief of families with one and two children, and they reduced the duration of the child. So they didn't help, they made life difficult for families. Since 2010, we have been building a family-friendly country, which has already achieved results. This does not mean that we have nothing to do, we have a lot of work to do, but, for example, we can say that in the last ten years, without the turn of family politics, 111,000 children would have been less born in Hungary. Children's desire and the number of marriages have also increased to the greatest extent in Hungary in the European Union, after the historic low in 2011, the fertility rate has already increased to 1,58 in 2020 based on Eurostat methodology. In 2010, they had the least marriage and today most marriages. The number of births in Hungary has increased to the greatest extent in Europe, with more than 3,000 children born in 2020 than in 2019, the highest number of children in the last 35 years. Also, the number of divorces has decreased in recent years. In addition, the number of women between the ages of 20 and 39 has decreased by 20 percent in the last ten years, by 283,000. Of course, we can also be relied upon by those who have a fertility problem. The proportion of women and men suffering from infertility has increased worldwide over the last decade, and today in Hungary, as in international welfare rates, one in five couples encounters difficulties with planned pregnancy. Today in Hungary we support the birth of all children and children with responsibility, and so far we have taken measures to ensure that as many healthy children as possible can be born in Hungary. In contrast to five previously supported IVF treatments, from 2017 the National Health Insurance Fund Manager will support five IVF cycles for the birth of the first child, while for additional children a further four to four cycles can be used with public funding. From 1 February 2020, each couple wishing to have a child can receive free fertility testing, fertility treatment benefits, the necessary medicines for fertility treatment, the financing of which is 100 per cent. The entire range of diagnostic procedures is now free of charge. At the same time, it is essential to develop, operate and manage institutions under government control in a national system. Public-funded fertility management procedures are now also available in institutions where they have been able to use them only for a fee. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Parliament, As has been the case so far, couples with fertility problems can count on us in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-29-86	Thank you, Mr. Róbert Zsigó State Secretary. I will ask Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély to accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2021-11-29-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can't accept it. Secretary of State, I don't know how you calculated that if we were on the government, there would have been less than 110,000 children. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that in 2006, 99 871, 97 613 were born in 2007, 99 149 in 2008, even during the crisis, and 96 442 children in 2009. And it's your turn to say what a great success it is that you were able to reverse the birth count to 93,000. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]] Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry, I don't know where you're getting this data. But, you know, Mr. Secretary, you again didn't give me an answer to what would make a fertility center better if you were in government hands. I know from my own experience that it's not gonna get any better. And, you know, Secretary of State, there are no more fertility professionals because you nationalised the fertility centers, and I think that many of you have left this field, a good professional who shouldn't have done that. There will be no more good lab professionals, no more good gynecologists, and I'm telling you, these professionals prefer to leave it or go to the private sector. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Secretary of State, they never answer the questions you're asking. [[The president's ringing again.]] But that's okay. I'm patient. I'll keep going. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-11-29-88	Thank you. The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, László Varju, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:. At a historic low point, how long will the government remain inactive? It's an address. Mr László Varju has the floor.
u2021-11-29-89	Mr. President, thank you very much. In the last hour, several of my fellow Members have tried to draw the State Secretary's attention to why the government is responsible for what is happening to inflation. I will try, too, because I can see that this has not been understood in recent years, because last week you have performed a historical act by paying forints for months of deep flying at a price of more than HUF 370 and USD 327. [[15.50]] Secretary of State, you can truly believe that I did not suggest much good for you, your government, but what is happening now with this 370-forint exchange rate, I think it is a huge surprise for everyone. It is indeed a historical act that has been done, something that our grandchildren will not forget, but that honest Hungarian voters are not, I hope very much. With the highest government debt, you have the most expensive petrol, the weakest forint, and the highest inflation, now that all your boasting is worthless, because everything is financed by the people you took money from. This is the result of the Fidesz government's work. Because as much as it may hurt you, we have to say that your misplaced exchange rate policy has brought together their entire government as a house of cards. How many times have we asked you to change that? ? How many times have we warned you here in Parliament on the Committee on Budgets, where you are reluctant to go through government representatives or even the press, that what you are doing is not going to end well! ? How many times have we heard from you and the President of the Central Bank that you have no specific exchange targets? ? We believed you didn't want to make politics at the expense of the people. We believed that at the last minute they did not want to pass through the bend by gas, and that they would not destroy the forint if they were unable to implement the euro, the secure euro. None of this has happened, and your work has reached the rate of HUF 370, and the Hungarian work has been devalued to the extreme. You've failed, you've got to go, you might just have time for a fair endgame, but I don't think that's gonna happen. I very much see, Minister, that a country is waiting for you to finish this work. So what I'm asking you is, how long does the Orbán government plan to stand by and watch the forint go down? Secretary of State, I would like a fair, specific answer and, if possible, even an apology. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-29-90	Thank you, Congressman Varju. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2021-11-29-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, He's listed what's the biggest here, inflation, and the rest, and I'm going to add that, and now it's the biggest consumption. Then how does that even exist? At your time, when you were in government, and you were in government, and you were in charge of a man named Gyurcsány, there was still a crisis, and we had to deal with the crisis; and there is a crisis now, and this crisis must also be dealt with. Yes, the rate of HUF is high, and inflation is high, which is what the government is facing. But if we go through how different your crisis management and our crisis management are, then maybe you'll think a little bit about which one is better. Let's talk about currency lending. You put two million families into foreign exchange loans because of cheap interest rates so that they wouldn't feel your austerity and feel how good it is; they brought it into lending. Who got them out, which government? The Fidesz government after 2010, with a two-thirds majority. What did they do with the pensions? As a result of their austerity policy, they took away the pension. What is the current government doing now in the same, perhaps even greater, economic crisis as then? He returns pensions and tells pensioners that the 13th month's pension will come back, and they'll get it next February. They also received the pension premium and the supplement in November. You took it, we gave it back. Let's see what's in the public sector. In the public sector, you handled the crisis by taking away the 13th month's wages. Let's see what happens now. 10 percent increase for teachers, 72 percent increase for health workers between 2017 and 22 percent increase, exceptional allowance for health workers, HUF 500,000 increase in wages for social workers. You froze the wages in the public sector, and we gave you support. How did you manage the taxes? You raised the taxes. VAT has been raised from 20% to 25 percent, personal income tax has been increased by 27 percent, today it is called a social contribution tax, it has been increased, so tax has been increased in sja. What are we doing? We've reduced the tax threshold, and now we're returning personal income tax to families who have children, parents who are entitled to family allowances. Yes, we can prove that, even in times of crisis, even in the event of higher inflation and forint weakening, economic policy can be done without people feeling anything about it; rather than feeling or consuming more. You didn't believe that, you believed that you had to take it away, that you had to squeeze it, go to the bank for currency credit, and that would compensate it. It didn't work. And now you're demanding that we do something... [[To the intervention of László Varju:]] Fair enough, all right, put it up, but then you'll accept what the government has already done, and you'll still do it. I could list the many, many measures, the differences in the cost reduction, the way you handled it, and what's important is that the situation is difficult, the inflation is higher, the forint is weakened, but people can't feel or feel anything about it. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-29-92	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tallai. I ask Congressman Varju to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-11-29-93	Secretary of State, then, as may God be, so do God. You have the boss of a man named Orbán, under whom the highest debt, the most expensive petrol, the weakest forint, and the greatest inflation have been brought together. What the government has done so far, this is your achievement. He's explaining himself here, but he knows he's wrong. Then let's stay with your boss. Let me quote you again: only weak people can want weak forints. That's what you did. That's why you shouldn't be so surprised, you know and understand that sentence very well. But, Mr. Secretary, it is worrying that not only do you not hear our words, but not even your own central bank president, with whom you are in a great fight. Finally, I will tell you only one thing: Mr Secretary, I have just received a report from the Ministry of Finance, it's all about a foreign exchange loan from the government, and people are going to pay it back, Mr. Secretary of State. I don't accept your answer.
u2021-11-29-94	Thank you very much, Congressman Varju. The answer was not accepted, and I inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Ákos Kara, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Why is it important to introduce a minimum wage of HUF 200,000? It's an address. Congressman Ákos Kara has the floor.
u2021-11-29-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The coronal virus epidemic has been a huge challenge for our country over the past few years, but Hungary has now achieved its pre-epidemic performance and economic performance, with economic growth of over 6 percent and up to 7 percent in 2021. This is also an outstanding achievement because there are nine EU countries that have reached the pre-crisis state, and Hungary is one of the few countries. Thanks to the increasing economic performance, the government announced an increase of the minimum wage to HUF 200,000 in line with the opinion expressed by the Hungarian people in the national consultation. This means that from 2022 the minimum wage can be higher in Hungary than the average wage under the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány. The government's aim is to give even more of the results of economic growth to Hungarian workers and Hungarian families. Our clear aim is therefore to increase wages in Hungary further. I would like to draw attention to the fact that 94 percent of those who completed the national consultation questionnaire at the time agreed that the minimum wage should rise to HUF 200,000. [[16.00]] As a reminder, the minimum wage in 2010 was 73 500 HUF. It is important to note here that with this decision, the minimum wage will be almost three times as much as the Gyurcsánys, so it was under left-wing governance. Between 2002-2010, the left increased the debt of families from HUF 200 billion to HUF 7500 billion, and the ruins of left-wing governance were turned in a positive direction by the hard work of the people by Fidesz-KDNP and good government measures. Dear Secretary of State, I think that the gradual rise in wages is also a clear sign of economic performance, and it is a pleasure for everyone that the government has been able to successfully negotiate with professional organisations, both on the workers' and on the employer's side. In view of this, I ask why it is important to introduce a minimum wage of HUF 200,000 from next year. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-29-96	Thank you, Congressman Ákos Kara. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-11-29-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government's aim from the beginning of our government is to give Hungarian people a job instead of aid, and it is worth working in Hungary. We therefore want wages to increase as much as possible in Hungary, which can and should be supported primarily by tax reductions. For this reason, another HUF 750 billion tax reduction has been decided, and the tax burden on labour will be further reduced. Thus, the rate of labour taxes has decreased by a quarter since 2010. One of the most important achievements of the last ten years, honourable Member, is that we have created a million new jobs and wages have been rising steadily since 2010. Compared to the beginning of the last decade, the minimum wage and the minimum wage for skilled workers have increased by much more than twice. The left was able to do nothing more than raise the minimum wage from 50 thousand to 73 500 forints in two government cycles, i.e. eight years. Thanks to a successful crisis management, I can also tell you, honourable Member, that in our country we have managed to prevent the epidemic from causing unemployment, wage cuts and economic downturns. Despite the epidemic, the Hungarian economy is growing, employment is increasing and wages are increasing. On an annual basis, the Hungarian economy grew the second fastest in the European Union on the basis of third quarter data, so we can make one more step forward. Employers and workers have signed the agreement on the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage for next year. From January, the minimum wage will rise to HUF 200,000 and the guaranteed minimum wage will rise to HUF 260 thousand. This is a big step, because in a year it means a 20% increase in wages, which hardly exists, and there is hardly any experience in international practice. In the last 12 years, there has been a total increase of 172 percent in the minimum wage. In addition, in the last 28 years, the purchasing power of the minimum wage has increased only below the right-wing governments, as the purchasing power of the minimum wage has decreased by 2 percent between 2002 and 2010. Together with the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, the wage increase will generally push up wages in Hungary, and the wage of public work will increase significantly with the minimum wage. I can also tell you that by raising the minimum wage, the amount of family support is also increasing. From 1 January, children's home care fee will rise to the minimum wage level of HUF 200,000, which represents a significant increase compared to the previous amount of the care fee. The maximum amount of the Gyed and Grandparent child will be 280,000 HUF gross. The amount of the degree will also increase, the participants in the initial training will receive 140 thousand HUF per month, and the participants in the master's degree will receive 182 thousand HUF. The results of economic growth therefore benefit workers, and let us not forget that in addition to wage increases, we also support working parents with a tax refund. Please accept my reply. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-29-98	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. I'll ask Congressman Ákos Kara to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-11-29-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I accept Mr Secretary of State's reply. The ruins of left-wing governance have been wiped out by the Fidesz-KDNP government since 2010. The essence of left-wing governance was to constantly increase the burden on people, constantly increasing taxes, constantly taking away people. On the other hand, we have reduced taxes and helped the growth of the economy with development aid, including in recent years. In Parliament, we are discussing a bill to give new tax reductions to economic operators and people, so that there will be a source, and there will be a guarantee that the wages of Hungarian workers will increase significantly in 2022. I therefore accept Mr Secretary of State's reply, thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-29-100	Thank you very much, Congressman Ákos Kara. Dear Parliament, We will move on to our next item on the agenda, with immediate questions. Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, representatives of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. If the Prime Minister does not answer in person, he has given the Minister in charge of Gergely Gulyás Prime Minister's Office a right to reply because of his absence. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2021-11-29-101	Thank you, Mr. President. We'll wait for Prime Minister to come to work. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where was Peter James today?]]
u2021-11-29-102	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Sándor Farkas granted the right to reply. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding.
u2021-11-29-103	Thank you. I'd like to wait for Minister. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-11-29-104	Yes, thank you very much. The Minister must reply at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I ask Mr Csaba Gyüre, whether he accepts the person of the response, or he asks the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2021-11-29-105	Thank you very much, I accept.
u2021-11-29-106	Yeah. Then you have the floor, Congressman Csaba Gyure.
u2021-11-29-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 9 November 2021, Parliament adopted the bill of Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, which concerns the amendment of certain laws relating to the introduction of the data change management service and the reduction of the administrative burden on citizens. The old law, the 1992 LXVI. According to the law, according to the law on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses, the conceptual element of the residence is living-like residence. However, the new legislation removes the obligation to live in a living environment. According to this, the residence is the address of the apartment or accommodation used to establish the citizen's formal relations with the State, as well as with natural and legal persons, entities without legal personality, as well as his rights and obligations linked to the place of residence. [[16.10]] The justification of the bill states that according to KSH, 6,37 percent of the Hungarian population, i.e. around 625 thousand people, do not live at their registered address. Thus, there are two possibilities before the Parliament: (1) the law is enforced; (2) the law legalizes lawlessness. You chose to do so, and the two-thirds majority legitimizes lawlessness. Why is that a problem? Do they even legalize budget fraud? In other words, the determination of the municipal normative will be based on fictitious data, i.e. clearly untrue data. The mayor's salary is also linked to the population, so it is clearly based on false data. But here's what we've talked about a lot: the problem of Ukrainian small pensioners, who also take a pension of 200-300 thousand forints. What do you think of that, Minister? Is this appropriate to legalize lawlessness? I look forward to your honored, meaningful reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-11-29-108	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. I give the floor to the Prime Minister of Gergely Gulyás.
u2021-11-29-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, My fellow Member now wishes to introduce a new genre in Parliament, and that is that the parliamentary debate was, for some reason, inadequate for you, because this bill had its parliamentary debate in ordinary proceedings for a month. Not only did you not object to this provision, but you did not vote against it. You, Congressman, abstained when you had to vote on this bill. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right, that's right!]] There was no doubt a more correct position, because the entire LMP faction, for example, voted in favour of the proposal, and the only representative speaking on behalf of the opposition, who spoke in the debate, was a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, and he supported the proposal. [[György Szilágyi: To the salad law!]] I'm sorry, Congressman, I don't have such a bad opinion of you as you do of your own team. Maybe it's because of the new certificates. The fact is that the position can be expressed in a parliamentary debate, including at committee meetings. They didn't say a word. You have not said a word because you know that this proposal has nothing to do with the elections. It has nothing to do with the election! The Btk. in the context of a criminal offence against the order of elections, any act which arises in this connection shall be severely punished. As a result of your new allies, after one of George Soros's organizations wrote an article, they stood in line and began protesting against what they did not oppose, so they did not object or even vote. I do not recommend this attitude, nor do I suggest that we believe that 700,000 people, who I believe are not 700,000, are only found in official CSF statistics, but are acting illegally about 1.5 million, because when they go to London, they keep their address here. This isn't right. This regulation was good and was therefore not contested. It's a shame they've been given new orders and acting accordingly ever since. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-29-110	Thank you very much, Minister Gulyás. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2021-11-29-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, The new legislation eliminates the criminality of the mass creation of fictitious addresses, and you intend to legitimise election fraud. We have seen similar suggestions from you. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why didn't you tell me in the debate?]] such a proposal has already been proposed to legitimise the chain voting and legitimise the photographing of votes [[György Szilágyi: Yes!]] [[György Szilágyi: Yes!]] , to legitimize the organisation of bus transport (György Szilágyi: Yes!) They're taking these steps in a series. Along the borders, the population of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county grew by at least 20,000 people, but probably by much more based on fictitious addresses. Is that what you're trying to legalize? For example, there is Kispalad, where from 2014 to 16 people grew from 623 to 1328. This plus 700 people are nowhere to be found. Hundreds of people are registered in one apartment, but there are also people logged into a funeral home and a dungeon. What do you think of that, Minister? The new law, 2022, serves to legalize Fidesz election fraud? [[György Szilágyi: That!]] Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-11-29-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. The rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2021-11-29-113	That's what I think if you're a supporter of electoral fraud. Only in this case, since, once again, I say to Mr President, one word has not been said about amending the regulation because everyone considered it a technically justified regulation, not a regulation that changed the real situation, but a regulation adapted to it. What you're talking about is, if it's not because the rule of your allies in general, the country is depopulated during left-wing government, but because it's because, in some cases, it's because of the election, it's an opinion that has to be influenced into an apartment, it's a crime against the order of the election, so, in addition to the same facts, the already known criminal clause can still be applied. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Hungary is bound by judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. This may be good or bad, but we have to cancel an international agreement if it's wrong, but I also think it's stupid to talk to each other and to speak openly. The problem is that the European Court of Human Rights has decided that the Two-Dagger Dog Party has filed a lawsuit against the Hungarian State that this cannot be sanctioned. So either we break an international agreement, this would not have been far from your opinion in the past, and we will not follow the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, or we will not be able to do anything else. We'd be happy to hear your advice. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-29-114	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "The Issues of the Current." Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás, the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister for an answer in person.
u2021-11-29-115	Listening to the foregoing, you have put me on a very big challenge, Minister, not that it's a nice thing to do, but I'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Bagged, rocked!]]
u2021-11-29-116	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, representative of the MSZP, Vice-President, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What about our teachers? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári asked for a reply. I ask Mr Vice-President whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister for his answer in person.
u2021-11-29-117	Yes, I accept, Mr. President.
u2021-11-29-118	Thank you very much. Mr István Hiller, Vice-President, has the floor.
u2021-11-29-119	Dear Secretary of State, Mr President, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, The teachers' unions have forced the government to negotiate, so these negotiations are with little results so far, but they are undoubtedly taking place. It is worth recalling that one of the most important of the demands of teachers' unions is the wage bill of teachers and the salary of teachers. This demand must have come up again most of the time because you, honourable Secretary of State, have broken your own promise. As it happens, when the so-called teacher career was introduced, they promised to put more burden on teachers from one side to the other and more honey on the string. The more weight was left, and the honey was gone. This was expressed in such a way that, at the time, teachers had entered the minimum wage in category A1 of the pay table, and it was taken out two years later. The minimum wage is a woman, and the teachers are left with their broken promises. At the same time that this negotiation is taking place, several news has come to light inside and outside the profession, partly in the press, that you are not shutting down from a major teacher's wage increase, correcting your own broken promise, but this is linked to the fact that teachers of schools working in state maintenance are being disorganized from the status of civil servants. This affects more than 120 thousand Hungarian workers. I want to ask you, Mr. Secretary, if that's true. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-29-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-11-29-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The wages of teachers are also justified by the government. This has been the case before, so the first group of government employees to decide on a large, noticeable wage increase was the teachers, a 50 percent wage increase from 2013. [[16.20]] We continued to do so, because in the year of crisis, in the year of crisis caused by the corona virus, we did not do what you did in crisis management, when you dismissed 15,000 teachers and took a month's wages from those who still hold their jobs, and at the same time made teacher training a tuition fee. This is not the direction we chose, but a 10% wage increase from July last year. At the same time, we have introduced a 30-50 percent increase in wages for school directors and their alternates, and this is our plan for later ones. We have also said that next year the government wants a further 10% wage increase for teachers, and not only does the government want it, but it does. One of your leading politicians, Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife, Klára Dobrev, just said that teachers do not need the pre-election government business. That's all he said about a ten percent raise. You want it to be the bigger the salary increase, we want it to be the same, and Klára Dobrev said thank you very much, they don't want this raise. We can't agree with him. And the government has also made it clear that if the electorate trusts us to lead the country further next year, we would continue to do the wage increases and not the wage cuts you have made. Therefore, in the following year, there is a higher rate of teacher wage increase in our plans, not in 22 but in 23. So we want to continue to raise the teachers' wages, recognising the work that teachers do every day. And a proposal that you have said, honourable Member, such a proposal has not been discussed by the Government, nor has such a proposal been asked, nor is there such a proposal for an amendment on the government's agenda. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-29-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have the opportunity to rejoin Vice President Hiller.
u2021-11-29-123	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, 10 percent is 10 percent more than zero, and much less than the teachers' unions claim as a legitimate need. So once again, I say that there is no doubt more than nothing, but with this, Hungarian teachers will not be able to increase their performance, so I strongly suggest that they return to their own promise of putting the minimum wage back in the A1 category. I ask the Secretary of State, since this was not a demand from the opposition, but a promise from you, and for two years, I think you have realised that you have missed the reform of education, and you have refused to make more money in this, I want to ask you: will you put the minimum wage back into category A1? Don't say a percentage, please, answer me this: your own promise, which you've kept for two years, and then you've broken it, are you going to restore it again? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-11-29-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Rétvári State Secretary is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2021-11-29-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I really don't mean to offend you, but the representative of the government who has reduced the wages of teachers now stands up in Parliament and says why the wages of teachers do not increase by more than 10%, honourable Member. [[Dr. István Hiller intervenes.]] I'm on the same side: obviously there are a lot of teachers in your family, there are a lot of teachers in my family, and my father was, and we obviously know what teachers do for children every day. They deserve it, yeah, we all think they deserve a raise, which is why last year we had a teacher's wage increase, and that's why we're sure they'll have it next year. And if we can continue to govern, there will be a wage increase after next year. As a matter of fact, this new model was successful or not. You think that if the teacher is II. 102,492 educators asked for his qualification, would that be a failed new teacher progression system? I have 102 492 against what you said. 16 855, the educator asked for their I. qualification; 13 078 asked for their Master's qualification. This shows that the teachers have seen this perspective, that it is also a professional step forward, and that a HUF 70 or HUF 30 000 in financial terms is also a step forward for them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-29-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr. Anett Bősz, representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "Who and how are you looking for inflation? In response to the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai granted the right to reply. I ask the congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding, or she asks the Minister for the answer in person.
u2021-11-29-127	Thank you, Mr. President, I accept.
u2021-11-29-128	Yes, then you have the floor, Congresswoman Versus Anett.
u2021-11-29-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Quote follows:. The Prime Minister's exchange is the solution to the forint crisis. With this confidence that the Prime Minister and his government are now in, there is no way to stop the forint from falling. Orbán said this in 2008 when the euro reached 274 HUF. The fact that the forint has fallen to the lowest level of 372 ever is reflected in the judgment of your economic policy on the world market, Mr. Secretary of State. So what? I don't need a euro, anyone can say that, but they're wrong. Whatever we buy, at least half of it is imported. The weakening of the forint therefore fuels inflation, which this year exceeds 7 percent, has not been this high since 2007. It consumes this year's increase in minimum wage and public employment wages, this year's pension increase and premium, and also devalues family allowances, child benefits and social benefits. All the research on Christmas preparation shows this, and the only reason I don't say that with inflation you take gifts from under the Christmas tree of Hungarian families is because many families will not even be able to afford Christmas trees this year. My fellow Member, László Varju, has just called domestic exchange rate policy a failure, but I think he is guilty. Why do I say that? Because unlike other banks, the central bank is not effective because it is profitable or not. However, the weakening forint increases the profits of the National Bank, and the current central bank management, for example, uses it to trade arts or to establish resorts, while also joining the sectors where the new national capitalist layer finds its biggest profits in 12 years. It is no exaggeration to say that the government's friends and business partners in these sectors are making quite good money on inflation. I ask Mr Secretary of State that, in this way, towards the end of their mandate, he has thought about taking care of the electorate instead of their own well-being. Thank you.
u2021-11-29-130	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2021-11-29-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and What I can tell you is that you said that inflation will consume the incomes you've earned. I'd like to deny that. It does not digest it, and this is confirmed by the data of the HCSO and Eurostat, according to which it is true that the rate of the forint is higher and weakened, and therefore inflation is higher, but since 2013 the incomes are higher than inflation every year, and this will also be the case in 2021. So your claim that the government's miseconomic policy is causing people, pensioners, to lose income is a misrepresentation. Unlike in your time, because you are a DK Member, and in your time of government, it was quite the opposite. In addition to high inflation, you have chosen a austerity policy. Accept that this government does not choose a austerity policy, but rather that people, with the support of families, should compensate, supplement, compensate, and in some way provide a higher income for the particular family against higher inflation. And people feel that way. If you don't believe that, then look around the country, see what happens, how much fuel consumption, how many people buy in stores. I think that it is right, of course, to ask why inflation and exchange rate policies are so high; only the other side must be seen: this kind of supportive economic policy also covers this to compensate for inflation, high prices. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-29-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2021-11-29-133	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, I am pleased that we agree that we are right to suggest why inflation is so high. The continuous weakening of the forint is caused by your efforts to maintain our competitiveness, not by improving productivity, increasing the rate of quality work, but by lowering the prices of the Hungarian labour force on the world market. This is an instrument of exchange rate policy, which is one of the triggers of inflation. The other is the central bank, which I've already spoken about. György Surányi recently revealed in his excellent article that the government's budget and central bank's financial policies are heating inflation in line. The domestic interest rate level has been below inflation for five years and is constantly falling. [[16.30]] So instead of saving, spending is encouraged, and even if it has been raised now, the central bank will decide the money to the economy through other channels. So we're running into the ravine, and you're still hitting the gas instead of the brakes. So in April, I would ask everyone to vote only for Fidesz, who would like to have a HUF 400 euro. Thank you.
u2021-11-29-134	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2021-11-29-135	Thank you very much. Well, you're the only one here telling me what you want, the way the country's headed for the ravine. I assure you, it won't, and there's no way to win an election. The government recognised precisely that inflation is not caused by the government, but rather by international economic processes, unfortunately, the figures that are typical of Hungary are thorough. By the way, in a post-crisis period, when there is a reboot policy, it is a natural consequence. There is high inflation all over the world in Europe. For example, in the United States, an average price increase of 7.3 percent was recorded in the European currency area in October, which was not typical for 13 years. Even if your accusations that this was caused by the government, not by the government, the government will fix it for the people. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-29-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Péter Ungár, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás, the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, was entitled to reply. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2021-11-29-137	We'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2021-11-29-138	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Does the polluter really pay? It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás, the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, was entitled to reply. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding, or whether he will ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally. [[Péter Ungár: I accept.]] He'll take it. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor.
u2021-11-29-139	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, You are constantly taking part in the debate on who should pay the cost of reducing climate change, saying that the polluter should be paid. This principle is a good principle, and every sober person can agree with that. The fact is, however, that we must follow the instructions that Viktor Orbán gave to your government, and that is that we must not look at what they are saying, but what they are doing. I would like to illustrate my question with three examples. The first is that Coca-Cola has won its biggest plastic polluting fee for the fourth year, but not only would it pay for the Hungarian budget in the form of tax incentives, but the Hungarian citizens pay for this polluting company. So Coca-Cola gets money, not money. ExxonMobil, a global climate-destructing company that has spent more than $40 billion since 1982 to pollute the environment, this company receives tax-paying money, and has paid the Hungarian budget as a polluting zero forint. And to give you a domestic example, Viresol Kft. is owned by Lőrinc Mészáros. He contaminated the soil water, and therefore, although the prosecutor's office found that it had happened, as they stopped after they had been caught, no fines were imposed on him, so they also paid zero forints in the process of receiving state aid. So the question is extremely simple: if it is true that the polluter pays, then which polluter and how much has he paid in the last 12 years? I'm asking Minister to answer with money and company names. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-29-140	Thank you very much, Congressman Ungar. I give the floor to the Prime Minister of Gergely Gulyás.
u2021-11-29-141	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, He went to the wrong place in the matter of sums and business names. However, what I can say on the subject is that what is generally true is important, of course, also in every particular case, but let us not forget that in Hungary gross greenhouse gas emissions in 19 were only 32 percent lower than 1990 levels. On the basis of this emission data, Hungary was the tenth best in the European Union in terms of emissions reductions. In addition, we have been able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by continuously increasing our economic performance. If I may briefly present the results achieved since 2010, we increased the amount of renewable energy-based electricity used by more than 40 percent, by 58 percent the amount of biofuels used, and we paid nearly HUF 50 billion to improve the energy efficiency of residential buildings. As regards the specific issues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is fundamentally a mistake to ask me instead of the prosecutor's office, but after your fellow Member, Bernadett Szél, has already done so, and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office has given him an answer, so the Gyöngyös District Attorney's Office is the Btk. 204. § 3 of the Rules of Procedure. This means that the perpetrator cannot be punished if, until the decision of the first instance is taken, he eliminates the threat or damage to the environment and restores the original condition of the damaged environment. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] In accordance with Article 4 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, he has terminated the criminal proceedings in the process. This means that the perpetrator cannot be punished if, until the decision of the first instance is taken, he eliminates the threat or damage to the environment and restores the original condition of the damaged environment. Thank you for your attention. (Applause from the benches of the governing parties. )
u2021-11-29-142	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Congressman Ungár in return.
u2021-11-29-143	Thank you very much. The fact is that greenhouse gases have increased greenhouse gas emissions every year from 2013 until the start of the coronal virus epidemic. What you're saying is that I was taught by Zoltán Illés at the CEU, so the 1990 data that you're comparing it with has reduced greenhouse gas emissions because the Soviet-type industry is closed. So that's why it's reduced. By the way, I would like to say that with this power you could also have said the Wikipedia article that the horse is a four-legged mammal animal; you did not answer that the polluter paid in and how much the companies paid into the Hungarian budget. [[Miklós Soltész intervenes.]] If you represent this position, Minister Soltés or Secretary of State, I also listen to you, so if you argue with this on the international stage, then I think it is worth determining this in some way in Hungary in lawmaking and governance, because otherwise it is like the green policy of the KDNP, sometimes funny, but mostly empty.
u2021-11-29-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. The rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2021-11-29-145	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It may be worth enforcing in law enforcement, but it's a shame we had nothing to do with that, because it's going on in court. We agree, of course, that this is worth enforcing in all the branches of state, only after their separate operation is an important guarantee of the rule of law, and therefore we have no influence on justice in this sense. Obviously, there's an advantage to a CEU degree, but there's also a disadvantage. So once an international comparison is beneficial to us, and we did not decide that the basis of the comparison was 1990, but the European Union, it is worth representing it on the international stage, and we can say that we can deliver one of the best results in this. In addition, our further hope is that if the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is built, without which green energy and climate commitments cannot be achieved factually and objectively, Hungary will be able to produce low-cost electricity in such a way that it will also be environmentally friendly, as, of course, we need to continue to support renewable energies and we will continue to do. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And what is a very concrete example is that there will be an EU label in the coming months that will allow renewable energy to play an even greater role in the Hungarian energy mix. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-29-146	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, Bence Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is going on here? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás, the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, was entitled to respond. I would like to ask the Members of Parliament or the lady if she would like to accept the person who is responding, or if she would like to ask the Prime Minister for an answer in person.
u2021-11-29-147	Mr. President, I can say yes on behalf of the others. (Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat) Victor Vinnai is replacing him.)
u2021-11-29-148	Yes, then you have the floor, Congressman Sándor Burány. [[16.40]]
u2021-11-29-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear House, You, a former young Democrats, started from a very different platform. You, former young democrats, under the leadership of Viktor Orbán, demanded that the party state be dismantled in a big voice. You, under the leadership of Viktor Orbán, as a young Democrat, have, by the way, completely freaked out, like other well-spoken people, about the fact that the secret services observed politicians, including opposition politicians, even at the time of the regime change. Now it seems to me that under the leadership of Viktor Orbán, you former young democrats are working to bring these party-state times back. It was also difficult for the Hungarian democratic public to digest what we briefly call the Pegasus scandal. A few weeks ago, this scandal broke out, when it was quite simply revealed that, based on Lajos Kósa's comment, it became evident, which we had already treated as an open secret that, at the government's order, software had been purchased to monitor various public figures, independent journalists and opposition politicians, or at least on their mobile phones; the traces of this were found on these phones. We didn't really wake up from this shock, and we haven't even properly investigated what really happened, there is another scandal: the president of the Hungarian Parliament, one of Hungary's highest public-law dignitaries, gave political guidance to the secret services and called the opposition the greatest national security risk. My question to you is what are the services protecting, your authority, or the democratic rule of law. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-11-29-150	Thank you very much. In response, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office.
u2021-11-29-151	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, The services protect Hungary's sovereignty and must act in accordance with Hungarian national interests. László Fat was an excellent speech, and I agree with every word of it. It's worth reading, which is what I suggest you do. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-29-152	Thank you very much, Minister. You have the chance to rejoin the congressman.
u2021-11-29-153	We have read and even listened to this scandalous recording that has been made public. László Fat left no doubt that he was thinking of today's opposition. You left no doubt about the fact that you expect the Secret Service to defend your principles, through this, your power. He left no doubt that he considered the opposition to be a national security risk and encouraged the secret services in your speech to protect Hungary from it. This is more than a scandal. The speech itself is a scandal, but the fact that you're trying to defend this speech is more than outrageous. [[It's a rare applause from the opposition side.]]
u2021-11-29-154	Thank you very much. The rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2021-11-29-155	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to remind you once again that this speech speaks for itself. This was not a speech at some secret meeting, but on an occasion where former socialist ministers, such as Minister Nikolic, were sitting. So there was no secret in that. Obviously, these bodies do not function naturally and correctly in public. What László Fat said can be identified with a good heart, not only on the government side, but also on the opposition side. There are countries in Europe where, as a result of democratic elections, the party or parties in parliament are subject to surveillance by the secret services. Hungary does not belong in this circle. And while you have had today's ally at the time of your administration, to whom this was deemed desirable and applied, this must be agreed by observers and observers on the left in the spirit of a new cooperation. I wish you good luck and good mood conversations. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-29-156	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Gyula Budai, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. What kind of metropolitan real estate investigations have started? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Károly Kontra was entitled to reply. I ask Congressman Gyula Budai to accept the person of the response, or to ask the Minister for his answer personally. [[On Dr. Gyula Budai's mark:]] He'll take it. Then Congressman Gyula Budai should take the floor.
u2021-11-29-157	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In recent weeks, news has been published in the press that the leadership of the capital wants to sell the historic building of the City Hall. Of course, Mayor Gergely Christmas has no idea. But even though Christmas claims that no decision on the sale of the property has been made, a document has been published that a real estate agency is charged with selling one of the most expensive buildings in the City Council. The left-wing capital real estate shit hasn't stopped here yet. It is supported by audio recordings that in the commission system of the Budapest Corruption Network operated by the people of Bajnai Gordon, a III. district and XXII. district property also changed owners in a suspicious way. In addition, the circumstances of the sale raise the suspicion that there is an influence on trafficking and that there is a crime of misdemeanor abuse. It is also an explanation by the shameful Christmases that they do not know any Zsolt Berki, and it is also incomprehensible why there has not been an internal investigation of the head of the Metropolitan Asset Management Barts J. Balázs. It could be said that everything has been squandered under their scandalous governance, while the national government is currently working to get all this back into the property of the Hungarian state. It's a good thing they can't sell the House. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what kind of real estate investigations have been carried out in the capital. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-29-158	Thank you very much, Congressman Gyula Budai. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2021-11-29-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary is a democratic rule of law, where no one is above the law. The laws apply to all of us. The Hungarian police act decisively against everyone who breaks the law. Honourable Congressman, In the cases you mentioned and questioned, 11 criminal proceedings are currently under way at the National Police Bureau. I would like to inform the honourable Member that, according to the unbroken practice of the Ministry of the Interior, I cannot at present provide any further details of the case in the light of the interests of the proceedings. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-29-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Gyula Budai has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2021-11-29-161	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, In the meantime, a new recording has been produced which mentions a system of commissioning that 8-10 percent of the value of the properties sold should be returned to the leadership of the capital, namely Deputy Mayor Kiss Ambrus. The recording also shows that the town hall is controlled by former Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai, Ambrus Kiss and Csaba Tordai. Last Friday, I filed a criminal report on four more real estate cases at the National Bureau of Investigation. Today, Budapest XI. I filed a criminal complaint concerning property No 2-4 of Rimazombati Road. I would like to reassure my fellow Members of the opposition that there is plenty more. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.50]]
u2021-11-29-162	Thank you very much. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2021-11-29-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In the event of detection or detection of a criminal offence, the police shall, in all cases, initiate, carry out, in accordance with the law, and carry out all legal acts of procedure. I would like to inform you that the investigation will cover the examination and investigation of all the circumstances which may be relevant in relation to the criminal rating of the offence committed. Honourable Congressman, In the performance of its duties, the police act without party policy or party influence. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-29-164	Thank you, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Dear Parliament, Before Zoltán Magyar, László Szászfalvi, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai granted the right to reply. I ask Mr Szászfalvi, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister for his answer in person.
u2021-11-29-165	Yes, I accept, of course.
u2021-11-29-166	Thank you very much. Then it's up to Congressman László Szászfalvi.
u2021-11-29-167	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Today Hungary has a strong, well-developed economy, and despite the crisis, it has a balanced fiscal policy. The Fidesz-KDNP government, as opposed to previous left-wing governments, has now achieved significant results, based on support for families, tax reduction policy, investment and employment promotion. The crisis could not shake this either, as the tax reduction policy could further reduce the employer's taxes on labour from 1 January 2022, so that businesses could spend the larger amount remaining on wage increases or improvements. In addition, the minimum wage has increased almost three times in Hungary over the last 12 years. With the increases announced by the government next year, the minimum wage is expected to be higher on 1 January 2022 than the average wage in the Gyurcsány era. In 2022, there will also be a unique tax refund for family members in the European Union, and young people under the age of 25 will also be exempt from tax. Dear Secretary of State, During the Gyurcsány government, unemployment was high, real incomes barely increased, a month's pension was taken from the elderly, the home creation programme was abolished, families were driven into foreign currency loans, local governments were forced into bankruptcy. We are now encouraging economic development based on tax reduction policy, increasing the purchasing power of the minimum wage, which is part of a process that is also indicated by Eurostat data: since 2010, we have achieved the fourth largest growth in the EU. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how tax cuts and the increase in the minimum wage help the lives of the Hungarian people, what concrete changes the current steps mean. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-29-168	Thank you, Congressman Szászfalvi. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2021-11-29-169	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you said, the government pays particular attention to the support of families. It is very important to preserve jobs, create new jobs and value the workers there, secure incomes and continuously improve them. This is the government's economic policy since 2010. The government can deliver significant results in this respect, since gross average earnings have doubled in Hungary since 2010. It is very interesting, you mentioned that the epidemic could not break it either, because in 2020 the actions increased by 9.7 percent, but this year, too, in this difficult year, the average earnings increased by 8.4 percent in the period from January to August, and this figure is likely to be even higher by the end of the year. The government is pursuing a conscious, thoughtful, consistent wage-raising policy in the public sector. Medical salary increases, judges, prosecutors, wage increases for daycare workers, and the payment of compensation for people working in disadvantaged settlements also represented a significant gross increase in average earnings for those affected this year. This will continue, as the promised and decided developments in the public sector will continue in 2022; the salaries of daycare workers, social workers, cultural workers and educators will increase by 20 percent. The most important thing is that for low incomes, as you said, the minimum wage will be 200,000 forints. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] And the guaranteed minimum wage is 260,000 forints, which will affect nearly one million people. [[The president's ringing again.]] the following year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-29-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The possibility of rejoining Mr Szászfalvi.
u2021-11-29-171	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. The bill submitted to Parliament leaves more than 750 billion forints to taxpayers in 2022, and this measure, together with the measures of this year, is already worth HUF 2000 billion. As a result, in recent years the tax burden on businesses has been reduced by less than half, from 33.5 percent in 2009 to 13 percent. I believe that these are historic steps, historic economic decisions and economic steps, and, of course, we support the Government in terms of the same further economic steps. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-29-172	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder also applies to Mr Tállai State Secretary.
u2021-11-29-173	Thank you very much. You highlighted the tax reduction in your rejoinder. I would like to stress that the tax reduction policy has characterised the government since 2010 and that it has been able to produce very serious results at international level for the European Union, since both companies' taxes are one of the least in Hungary and personal income tax, and there are also elements in the family support system that significantly help families. But indeed, perhaps one of the government's greatest achievements is that in recent years the tax burden on entrepreneurs will be reduced from 33.5 percent in 2009 to 13 percent in the following year. That's probably it. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] is one of the largest tax reductions in the European Union as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-29-174	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State Tallai. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Sándor Farkas granted the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister for an answer in person.
u2021-11-29-175	I'll take it.
u2021-11-29-176	Yes, then you have the floor, Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2021-11-29-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Deputy Minister. Since the summer waist of the pig sector, the alarm bell has been ringing by professional organizations, farmers, and I have also taken every opportunity to draw attention to the problem, and perhaps there is no debate between us about the serious problem. I did bring some quotes to this House, however, that, if you did not believe me, the people concerned might believe me. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The situation on the pig market is currently catastrophic. Porcine farms generate huge losses, many already face liquidity problems. This is the quote from Róbert Laczi, Pigmark Kft. It comes from its managing director. But here's another: I think that the distribution of income on the production track should also be regulated. If nothing happens in this, it's gonna be a big problem. Szabolcs Bóna has already said that the agricultural sector does not have to introduce him either. But perhaps the most interesting thing is that there is nothing worse than what is happening now with the domestic pig sector, and I read this quote from István Horváth, who is sitting here in your pro-government benches. Two weeks ago, I raised this problem again, and then you answered exactly and outlined four proposals for solutions, but you know precisely that they will not solve the situation in the sector, because expenditure has been constantly increasing and revenues are falling. [[17.00]] Let me just give you one of the many numbers. Two years ago, the pig was taken over at a price of HUF 445 per kilogram live weight, at a price of HUF 43,000 per tonne of corn, currently below or 350, with maize at 74 thousand forints per tonne and rising. On top of that comes the animal health crises. In practice, it can be said that today all pig farmers in Hungary have been producing serious losses for many months. I think that there is no wonder that the sector has become hopeless and that more and more people are considering the permanent cessation of pig farming. My question is very simple: why are you looking at this without virtually serious assistance and action? I look forward to your substantive answer.
u2021-11-29-178	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2021-11-29-179	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, it should be noted that the management of the Agricultural Ministry and the agricultural portfolio do not respond to quotes from the press, but to the day-to-day discussions that are ongoing with farmers. Secondly, we do not know yet of an EU Member State where such a wide range of tools would be used for pig-holding sectors and pig-holders, as we do here in Hungary. We are also aware that no Member State can fully prevent the effects of an EU sectoral crisis by national means. It is no coincidence that 19 Member States have requested intervention from Brussels. You can see, however, that they will not take any action, unfortunately. In support of the opposition, there is the Brussels administration; it seems to be deliberately watching the European pig sector squirm, quietly waiting for it to die. Is the animal keeper an enemy of your allies in Brussels? We could ask. Face this fact, Congressman, and in view of this, consider who deserves to read into the difficulties of a sector. If the crisis and damage caused by the Russian embargo or during the last major dairy crisis could be put together an EU rescue package, then it could be now, but there is no intention of doing so. Nevertheless, I would like to note that we will make the maximum use of the possibility, as a national country, from the national budget, to pay the highest possible advance for both direct aid and rural development aid. At the moment, we are paying some HUF 300 billion in aid, and in the case of animal welfare aid directly linked to pig farming, we have already paid more than HUF 8.3 billion this year, and by the end of the year we will pay an additional HUF 5.5 billion to farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-29-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have the chance to rejoin the congressman.
u2021-11-29-181	Thank you, Mr. President. No one has argued that this is a European problem, but it is obvious that farmers in other EU countries are significantly more resilient to such crises. What is the reason for this? Still, pointing to Brussels after 12 years of governance and expecting some sort of rescue package from the European Union would be very thin. For example, in the pig sector, we should have organised the cooperative model that we always miss from the government, which was promised to be a series of cooperative laws even in 2010 in opposition, and then perhaps the Hungarian pig sector, the Hungarian farmers, would be so strong that they would be significantly less affected by this crisis. So I cannot accept this explanation, despite the fact that I too would be happy to have a serious EU rescue package alongside national proposals, obviously that would be good for everyone. I just don't want pork to be the next product to be imported from abroad after berries, onions and pepper, because Hungarian farmers are simply not willing to produce it because they can't produce it with such losses.
u2021-11-29-182	Thank you, Congressman. State Secretary Sándor Farkas also has the opportunity to rejoinder.
u2021-11-29-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Here's a point that we can agree on, but the same thing has historical difficulties. Integration is inevitable, which is currently not solved in many sectors in Hungary. These include pig farming and fattening in the pig sector. It is not certain that a cooperative model should be taken, but that integration should be taken. But the fundamental issue of integration is that the farmer, the farmer, wants to participate in such an integration. It seems that this tendency does not yet understand me, it does not understand me, in case this situation is likely to illuminate to farmers that they can act together as a force in integration, not only in the domestic but also in the international market. One more point: the more professional, the more efficient a sector, a farmer, the more able it is to endure such a crisis, which is why we are spending aid of this kind on the construction and development of pig farms. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-29-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: . How many more people have to die? It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister for her answer personally. (In the notary seat, Dr. Adam Steinmetz Replaced by Sándor Szabó.)
u2021-11-29-185	Thank you, I accept, Mr. President.
u2021-11-29-186	You have the floor, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2021-11-29-187	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Let's see how the government has dealt with the epidemic over the last few months and what they've said in the past few months. Orbán talked all summer about the fact that he does not think that masking protects us from the virus, he said this every week for months, and then the Hungarian Academy of Sciences issued a statement on this in October, where they said that it was extremely wrong and harmful, which Viktor Orbán is talking about, and then, of course, they made the mask mandatory. On 23 August 2021, Viktor Orbán said that I was vaccinated twice with a Chinese vaccine, I did not hire the third one, but I am not even perhaps old enough to have to worry. That's what he said on 23 August, and then on 17 October, the Prime Minister took the third vaccination. Last Friday, he said, "The person who listened to me earlier, we saved his life, the lifeguard is the third shot." We can say that the Prime Minister is not consistent, and that he's doing a lot more harm in disease management with the statements he makes on the pro-government radio every Friday than he would normally listen to professionals. From the vaccination registration, Mr. Secretary of State has been singing in Parliament, while we have been saying for months to cancel registration and see wonders, people know what is good for them, and tens of thousands of people go to vaccination every day if they do not have to register. You have not heard the voice of the profession and the voices of the scientists who say that the mask must be made compulsory, registration must be abolished, and the third vaccination must be taken on by everyone. Mr. Secretary. Tell me who has done the most damage to disease management if not you, the leading politicians, who don't know what they're talking about, and then, in months' time, they will introduce what the profession and opposition demand. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-11-29-188	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-11-29-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, We could also choose that you qualify for the Hungarian epidemic treatment, but we can also decide to leave it to the WHO. We consider the latter a saving solution. Both Hans Kluge, the WHO Director-General in Europe and the WHO Secretary-General, who runs the entire organization, visited Budapest several times, they were informed here, on the spot, about how the Hungarian disease management is taking place, and they did not say the exact opposite, they acknowledged the Hungarian disease management, and they said that Hungary has made good decisions in terms of both vaccines and protection. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We were the first ones in the world to set up the operational tribe to protect against the epidemic, and we took the first measures we had before other countries. If you look at the number of infected people who have imposed certain restrictive measures at the first wave, whether they are neighbouring countries or Western European countries, you can see that we have taken action earlier and thus have been able to protect more people's health. We were among the first to start the vaccination. You may not find another country in the world where six vaccines can be vaccinated, and you will certainly not find them in the European Union. [[17.10]] That is why we were the second in the European Union, who achieved 25 percent and 50 percent of the vaccine, and now we are absolutely the first in the third vaccination, the confirmation vaccination, because 8 percent of the European Union Member States are average, 20 percent of us, so two and a half times as many have been vaccinated for the third time in Hungary as on average in the EU. The Prime Minister also always describes the current epidemiological measures, since accurate information is very important. He was the one who encouraged people to be vaccinated, and you, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and your left-wing colleagues, are those who, to this day, have a proposal in Parliament that Hungarians should not receive the Russian and Chinese vaccines. You could have put your fellow Member, Lajos Korózs, in danger of life, as he said, because of the Sputnik vaccine, he survived the coronal virus epidemic with milder symptoms. But if his proposal and your proposal had been accepted here in Parliament, then he might have had more serious consequences, too. I suggest that you listen to what you have done here in Parliament in relation to the vaccination. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-29-190	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély in return.
u2021-11-29-191	Then I will use your words, Mr. Secretary: we cannot find another country in the world where a 5 billion HUF test would have been destroyed just because people were not given it for free. At the beginning of September 2020, Minister Gulyás said that since the tests are paid out of taxpayers' money, we must not test everyone without reason. You know, Mr. Secretary, you would rather give up the lives of the Hungarian people because you will destroy a test worth 5 billion forints, just to give it to the people, the elderly Hungarians and the children of Hungary for free. You know, Mr. Secretary, someone else has to answer for this. And once again, I would like to call on the Secretary of State not to say something that I have not said inside the walls of Parliament or outside the walls of Parliament. Secretary of State, remember this: they refused to give the Hungarian people, to provide them, to throw them in the trash or to burn them. I think there's nothing more disgusting and horrible than a government that you've done. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2021-11-29-192	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2021-11-29-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Looks like you guys are even on the same page. István Ujhelyi said that with the same words as you, only on another subject that there are never-extinct crimes for which the parties involved will sooner or later, but they will certainly answer, you said literally. István Ujhelyi said that they are such as the purchase of specialized devices and vaccines during the outbreak of the corona virus. [[Dr. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó intervenes.]] So he said that you were going to hold us accountable because we obtained tests directly from China and obtained vaccines directly from China. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Why didn't they give it to the people?]] István Ujhelyi said that this is why you will hold us accountable. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You have said a false news here in Parliament, which the National Hospital Directorate-General has already denied last week. I suggest you read it, and then you will not spread false news again in Parliament. To the left, it seems all that's left is that they're spreading false news. I would also like to correct from your previous speech that those who have now taken the first vaccination would have been vaccinated without registration. They've also been registered on the spot. So everyone who received vaccination in Hungary received it after registration. Please don't spread false news. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-29-194	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. This is the last immediate question. Mónika Dunai, Member of the Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. How long can it be tolerated that Peter James and his party continue to deceive people in a hypocritical way? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Miklós Soltész was entitled to reply. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister for the answer in person.
u2021-11-29-195	I'll take it.
u2021-11-29-196	You have the floor, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai.
u2021-11-29-197	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Here in Parliament and on Facebook, Peter James, who played the simple child of the people, was once again found extremely embarrassing. According to the news, the party president is doing tricks with the apartment that the Parliament has rented for him. It's just apparently rented, it's been reported that it's been given to a third party to put double money in their pockets. Mr. President, of course, immediately denied that he even knew the landlord of the faker, but Mr. According to the property sheet of the district apartment, the apartment rented by the Office of Parliament for nearly HUF 3 million a year is owned by a person whose address is noticeably close to, just a few minutes from the home of Péter Jakab in Miskolc. That the president of Jobbik and the fake owner know each other, it's confirmed by dozens of Facebook entries, photos, posts, even if he strongly denies it. The reason why a rural representative rents a flat in NewBudan, which is relatively distant from Parliament, is a reason why he has never been seen before. But this is not such a unique case, because the right-wing politician who has been leading people has repeatedly been caught, where he is faked, where he is faked, where he is flaunted during the campaign, while he is actually driving a luxury car, a driver and a bodyguard. He picks up the CSOK while criticizing the government and the family support system from morning to night, scolding him. He's campaigning to sell himself to an ordinary poor country lad, but it turns out that it's actually a prank. But the Hungarians can see through it. We know that the Hungarians all know that the lying man is caught before the lame dog. Therefore, I ask the honourable Secretary of State, how long can it be tolerated that Peter James and his party continue to deceive people in a hypocritical manner. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-29-198	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész.
u2021-11-29-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to quote from Jobbik's charter of establishment: the primary task ahead of the Jobbik Hungary Movement is to remove the Communist successor party and the extremist liberals joined with it from political power. Now that it's done, everyone can see it. So the answer to your question is that people have already decided on their idea of Jobbik, because some of them, who were better representatives, have left them, some of them still remained there, perhaps because they trusted that this madness that James Peter and his companions are doing for Jobbik, can be stopped, but we see that without criticism they are refurbished with anyone in all aspects. Whatever the money, the power, the man, nothing matters to them, they can get together with everyone. What is known specifically about the case, if at all we have to judge in this sense: Parliamentary Members have the possibility of using the housing provided by the Office of Parliament, which is guaranteed by law, and of course the law also describes the way in which they can receive it. Obviously, anyone who has an apartment in Budapest, or who has a close relative, relative, or a relative in a household in Budapest, should not use it, and it is clear that, according to the provisions of the law, the objective of housing in Budapest is to provide the representatives with the appropriate conditions for their work, according to which the representative is entitled to use and not exploit the housing provided for for this purpose. If all this is true, although I'm only assuming that, his behavior can be considered a mistake, and making a mistake is a Btk. thing. That's not for me to decide, of course. That's for someone else to decide when it's proven. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-29-200	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have the opportunity to respond in return to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai.
u2021-11-29-201	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I respectfully accept your answer, but it remains unacceptable, and not only for me, but for the Hungarian people, that Jobbik, who is melted into the left, may lie because of the need to comply with Ferenc Gyurcsány in the morning, at night and at night. They live differently than they want people to believe. They say other things than what they think, and their actions are not even in a thank-you way with the words they speak. But the Hungarian people will decide what they represent, and what they think about it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-29-202	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The possibility of rejoinder is for Secretary of State Miklós Soltesz. [[17.20]]
u2021-11-29-203	Congresswoman, I completely agree with your words. James Peter's policy, what he says and what he is doing, is a complete demonstration of where he has taken his party, by the way. We can say that their policy can be considered politically wrong, which means that it has been the case for a long time from the strongest opposition party, that is what Ferenc Gyurcsány has now ate them and has become a branch of DK. He plays the poor lad, eats parizers all day long, while living in wealth and wealth, attacks the CHOK, then hires him probably to a house in Miskolc, but we don't know that he rents an apartment, but who knows what he's supposed to use it for, he's supposed to live modestly, but he has at least three offices, because in the party house, the House of Representatives, and in various apartments, if the news is true. And I would add how primitive the answer is what he says, what he does: he asks for the lease agreement of an ex-member who passed away three years ago after a long illness, Ferenc Hirt's lease contract. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: Shame! The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This is where Peter James keeps us, where most of the Jobbik keeps us. People will decide. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-29-204	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I will also close this agenda and hand over the chair of the meeting to Vice-President István Hiller. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2021-11-29-205	Good evening. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. The Commission's reports on defence and the Hungarian Defence Office and the final amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/17432. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the legislative committee will be presented in the debate. Hey, Congressman David, the rapporteur for the committee. Here you go.
u2021-11-29-206	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 25 November 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/17432 on defence and defence in Hungary. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've got a renewable defense law before us. During the parliamentary debates, we received detailed justifications for the need to renew the defence law in this way. It is not surprising that this task also stems from the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law and the provisions of the Law on Protection and Security responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the draft law, detailed rules on specific legal cases remaining from 2023 will be removed from the Defence Act, as they will be included in the previously mentioned framework law on defence and security, and the rules of the special legal order cases which will cease to exist will be incorporated into the proposal before us in a peaceful manner. The reform of the defence and security organisation system is also followed by the proposal to change the tasks and powers of the Government, the Parliament and the President of the Republic concerning defence, as well as the amendments involving the termination of the Defence Council are part of the proposal. As has already been said several times, all the elements of the new defence and security system must be ready by 2023, so there will still be plenty of work in the future. In any case, we must emphasise that the defence and security reform with this bill has arrived at another milestone. Thanks to the bill submitted, we will have a quality reform of our former defence law, which will result in a new defence law that will be better used, clearer and better adapted to the emerging defence structure. Dear House, The Legislative Committee has dealt with some of the minor problems raised during the general debate with its own proposal for amendment. These solutions were also supported by the rapporteur. In view of what has been said, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-29-207	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Szilárd Németh, if he would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, Would anyone like to speak on the subject? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. It is my duty to ask Mr. Secretary again. [[For signal:]] No doubt there is nothing to comment on, and it does so; it happens not to speak to him. So, my dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of individual laws in the field of defence and law enforcement and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. The government referral is T/17433. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The opinion of the Legislative Committee is coming, Mr Ádám Héjjj is the rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-11-29-208	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 25 November 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/17433 on the amendment of certain laws in the field of defence and law enforcement. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 22 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 2 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, We have a proposal that aims to improve, update 13 laws in the field of defence on the basis of shortcomings identified in the application of the law, changes in legislation over the past period and some practical experience, and also to increase the reputation of the defence forces and the attractiveness of the defence field with a single element. The latter measures include: the inclusion in the service of students participating in the initial training of a military officer with the resulting remuneration; the adjustment of the salary of military personnel on maternity leave; the introduction of new categories of support in the field of defence health damage care, the introduction of the necessary regulatory elements for the implementation of the Veteran programme and the implementation of various scholarship applications. In addition, the bill contains a number of amendments which, on the one hand, will make it easier for our countrymen in some situations in the area of administration, protection of interests or the exploitation of certain career opportunities, and, on the other hand, will allow a wider use of defence tools. Certain provisions of the proposal also affect companies engaged in activities related to the defence interest. Ladies and gentlemen, During the Commission's debates, the bill was discussed practically without debate by this House, and therefore, taking into account what has been said, I believe that the proposal that has been tabled must be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-11-29-209	Thank you very much. Do you now wish to speak as the author of Szilárd Németh? [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, Would anyone like to speak up? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Mr. Secretary? [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The debate on the Commission's report on the implementation of the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2020. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Budgets T/16284. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Lajos Szűcs, Vice-President of the Budget Committee, if he would like to speak. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present a position during the debate. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. Members' speeches may follow. Dear House, Anybody want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. [[17 .30]] Once again, it is my duty to ask Congressman Lajos Szűcs if he would like to speak. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs says no.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, I will inform you that the decisions will take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The debate on the Commission's report on the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2022 follows. Presentation by the Committee on Budgets T/17318. , can be found on the parliamentary IT network. Once again, the rapporteur is Mr Lajos Szűcs, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets. Would you like to tell me now? [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs says no.]] It says no. The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present a position during the debate. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. Representatives' speeches may come. Dear Parliament, Anybody want to tell me? [[There's no signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Once again, I must ask Congressman Lajos Szűcs if he would like to speak. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs says no.]] It says no. Decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting, Honourable Parliament. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of certain laws for harmonisation purposes to establish interoperability between EU information systems in the fields of borders, visa, police and judicial cooperation, asylum and migration and the summary amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/17429. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The position of the Legislative Committee will come first in the debate. Hey, Congressman David, the rapporteur for the committee. Here you go.
u2021-11-29-210	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 25 November 2021, T/17429 on the amendment of certain laws for harmonisation purposes in the field of interoperability between EU information systems in the fields of borders, visa, police and judicial cooperation and asylum and migration have been discussed. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 6 votes in favour. Ladies and gentlemen, The primary objective of the bill before us, as stated in its title, is to ensure compliance with European Union law. In particular, we can talk about EU harmonisation, which creates legal conditions for the exchange of data and for the interoperability of information systems at different Community and Member State levels. However, the bill also includes common rules on combating the dissemination of online terrorist content. In the field of legal harmonisation at non-EU level, I could mention that the bill contains amendments to the provisions of the 9th Amendment to the Fundamental Law, which entered into force on 1 July 2023, concerning the special legal order chapter and to the law on the coordination of defence and security tasks. It should be pointed out that the rules on the involvement of armed security guards in border police tasks aim to ensure better and more effective cooperation between the various bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, The Legislative Committee also submitted its own amendment proposal to the draft law, which, reflecting on the outcome of parliamentary debates, makes the title of the bill clearer and improves the employment opportunities of foreigners studying in Hungary, in accordance with EU rules on the field. In view of what has been said, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-29-211	Thank you very much. It is now my duty to ask the rapporteur, Mr Károly Kontra, if you would like to speak now. [[Károly Kontra: Thank you very much, no.]] It says no. I would like to inform you that the designated Homeland Security and Police Committee has not presented a rapporteur. We now have speeches from Members. Dear Parliament, Anybody want to tell me? [[There's no signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Once again, I must ask Mr. Secretary of State anything he wishes to say now. [[Károly Kontra: Yes.]] Here you go.
u2021-11-29-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-29-213	Thank you very much. Decisions will take place at our later sitting, Honourable Parliament. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain criminal law laws necessary for the protection of animals and the discussion of the draft amending proposal are in order. Máté Kocsis, Fidesz; Péter Ovádi, Fidesz; Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz; Alpár Gyopáros, Fidesz; György Balla, Fidesz; László Böröcz, Fidesz; dr. István Tiba, Fidesz; László Vigh, Fidesz, representatives of T/17434. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The position of the Legislative Committee shall be the first to be heard in the debate. Mr Péter Ovádi, rapporteur for the committee, he can speak now. Here you go.
u2021-11-29-214	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 25 November 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain criminal law laws necessary for the protection of animals T/1743. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it unanimously by 31 votes in favour. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I get to the detailed explanation, I would like to thank, first of all, the parliamentary parties for their support for our legislative amendment package. There is no greater proof that our common concern is animal protection, that we voted unanimously on it both on the Judicial Committee and on the Legislative Committee. In the course of a year that I have been a Commissioner for Ministers, a lot has happened in animal protection, because we have joined forces with civil society organisations and we have tried to work together with civil society organisations on the basis of which we are going in the field of animal protection, because we have made an ambitious plan to be at the forefront of Europe in the field of animal protection within five years. The Center for Animal Protection was established at the University of Veterinary Sciences; the National Veterinary Council was established; we created Nébihhel together with gazdijogsi.hu; we were able to support civil society organisations; we were able to put one of the most important things into the Hungarian village programme, as the civilians used to say it, and we agree with everyone that the population of stray animals should be reduced, it received HUF 500 million, and 479 municipalities were able to apply successfully for it. I think it's all a joint success. And the best way to prove it is that we really have a thing for animal welfare, that we've all been able to support it. Our proposal itself is to amend certain laws on the subject of criminal law necessary for the protection of animals, with the aim of strengthening the legal environment related to animal protection and ensuring responsible animal farming in the light of the outcome of the animal protection consultation. To this end, the proposal provides for more stringent criminal law action and rules on handling the animal situation in criminal proceedings by establishing new classified cases in the case of animal cruelty. There is no fundamental legal barrier for the animal protection authority to act on the case after the final end of the criminal case. According to the proposal, if the court in criminal proceedings informs the animal protection authority that it has convicted the keeper of the animal as a result of the offence of animal cruelty or of the organisation of a prohibited animal fighting, the animal protection authority shall carry out official controls in accordance with the rules applicable to it. Our proposal includes a major public crime. New opportunities for technical development have also provided the opportunity for animal torturers to commit animal cruelty to the general public as an online community. In view of the fact that more and more live broadcasts take place on streamen or Facebook Live, for example, where the activities involving the torture of animals and ultimately even the destruction of animals are carried out, let us say that they are broadcast live for entertainment or other reasons, so that it is justified to regulate this as a classified case of animal cruelty. In addition to the basic case of animal cruelty, the protection of animals and nature requires that we treat the live mediation of animal torture that causes stumbling and is intended for entertainment as a qualifying circumstance. [[17.40]] It assessed as a general consequence, among other things, the negative impact on healthy children's development, the promotion of animal cruelty, the motivation for an increase in ratings to be carried out by the perpetrator or another such action. I think it is very important that this is included in our proposal. Animal cruelty during the period of prohibition from keeping animals. The Animal Protection Act regulates the cases where the authority may prohibit the keeper from keeping the animal for 2-8 years depending on the gravity of the infringement. In view of the gravity of the danger to society of the act of the torture of the animal subject to prohibition committed during the period of prohibition specified by the Authority, it is absolutely justified to regulate criminal law. In view of the fact that animal cruelty takes place at a time when the authority has already established, in the light of the gravity of the infringement, the responsibility of the person concerned in the field of animal cruelty under the Animal Protection Act and has committed animal cruelty in its knowledge, it is therefore necessary to place it in more than the basic case in the classified cases. Here's what we're proposing: to torture animals within two years of the organisation of a forbidden animal fight or animal torture. The proposal defines further animal cruelty as a new classified case for the two years following animal torture or the conviction of the organisation of the prohibited animal fighting. This frequent consideration is justified by the fact that a person who has committed a similar criminal offence in a short period of time is more serious, even if he is not considered to be a particular repulsive because he has been sentenced to imprisonment for his previous crimes. The second paragraph of the proposal seeks to sanction two cases with a higher penalty and associated threat to the gravity of the risk to society of classified cases. It is also important to note here that so far the person who organized the animal fight has been punished, and from now on it has also been the request of civilians who are also involved in the animal fight. By using the poison or by placing baits capable of killing life, more animals are killed. This is also a very important item that has been included, since, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the damage to nature, it intends to sanction in the proposal a qualified case of animal cruelty the case where the animal destruction is caused by the perpetrator by the release of the poison he has used or by baits capable of killing life. In view of the increased social hazard of this case, it is appropriate to regulate it as a classified case. In addition to the basic case of animal cruelty, it causes the suffering of several animals by planting and consuming poisons or baits that exploit nature in a depraved way, which can cause the mass destruction of animals after the long torture caused by poison or bait. Here, it can be triggered by the, and the emphasis is on that, since the release of poison and bait will be punishable as well. In particular, the national consultation also identified as a social need for more stringent punishment for multiple perpetrators of animal cruelty, including more stringent liability for those who committed similar crimes. In a number of cases, it has been observed that those who have committed crimes involving the torture, suffering or destruction of animals or animals, such as animal cruelty or animal cruelty, have committed other similar crimes following the imposition of criminal penalties. It is necessary to punish this perpetrator more severely than the legislation in force, in view of his violent traits which pose an increased risk to society. And what is unique in our package of laws in Europe is nothing more than taking action against propagating material. We also know that during the period of the pandemic there has been a huge increase in demand for co-animals, and we also know that, unfortunately, propagating animals have served this demand. It was very important, and I think that we are pioneers in Europe by describing who they are. Therefore, in addition to the establishment of a breeding establishment, an environment for healthy breeding of pet animals, we considered action against propagating material, the eradication of breeding sites and the criminal regulation of propagating activities to be of particular importance. According to the legislation currently in force, propagating animals are ordered to be punished for animal cruelty, subject to poor conditions, but it would be necessary to regulate them as classified cases in order to prevent the expansion and growth of breeding establishments. According to the enforcement feedback and the animal welfare bodies, it can be concluded that reproductive workers are not able to provide for the keeping and care of animals under appropriate conditions. Puppets seek to maximize profit, which causes the animal to be cut off early from the mother, and then are transported crowded and starved in an inappropriate place and under conditions, often marked as a popular breed other than the animal's type. In addition, the living conditions, the supply of food and drinking water and health care, vaccination and treatment of diseases that have not yet been sold are not adequately ensured, and interventions requiring veterinarians are also omitted. The supply obligations relating to the keeping of animals in point 3 of the Animal Protection Act, point 8. It is defined as an obligation from here on out, under the care of a good host. As I said, the damage to nature has also been included, and I have already talked about the forbidden animal fight, because my time is running out, so I would like to avoid only one, and thank you very much for the amendments that the left-wing colleagues have made. I saw good intentions in it, and I told you that we have already dealt with a lot of things, but we have also received amendments that we have been able to accept, here was the proposal of the Hungarian Society for Bird Science and Nature Protection, the WWF Hungary Foundation and Traffic, that the rule of criminal procedure should apply not only to vertebrate animals, but also to the protection of all groups of living things, so that in the event of seizure, it can ensure the placement of the living creature, and that its sale should be terminated as soon as possible. The reason for this is that placement is a major problem for all living things, since keeping them alive requires special expertise, without which, during criminal proceedings, living things will die, which will also impair the success of criminal proceedings. I think that this was an amendment that could be accepted immediately, since it was technically sound. Once again, I thank all my fellow Members very much for their support, because we have a common concern in the field of animal protection. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-29-215	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that Congressman Ovadi has just presented the position of the Legislative Committee, but since he is the only one present, I would like to ask him that he wishes to speak as a rapporteur, although he has certainly expressed his opinion. I don't want to control it, or I really do. [[On the sign of Péter Ovádi:]] Very good, excellent answer, thank you very much. That means he doesn't want to say anything. Now, on behalf of the government, I must ask Secretary Völner if he would like to speak. [[For signal:]] It says no. Thank you very much. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. We now have speeches from Members. The first speaker to be announced, Mr Philip Erik, may speak as an independent Member. Here you go.
u2021-11-29-216	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I would like to make it clear to you that I am very pleased with this bill, which will be put to the vote here in Parliament tomorrow. I believe that on many occasions I have drawn attention to the fact that there is a huge social need that seeks to tighten animal protection legislation. That is why I am pleased that social demand now seems to have met with policy, because, at a committee meeting, as Commissioner Ovádi indicated, MEPs unanimously voted in favour of this draft bill, this package of laws, at a committee meeting of the Justice and Legislative Committee. In fact, we can say that we have a very long way to go, of course, there are points in this bill that remedy burning animal protection and critical points, such as tightening up certain criminal acts of animal torture, or the fact that the viewers of animal fighting will be punished from now on. It can also ensure effective action against propagating material and simplify the ban on keeping animals, so much more such cases are expected to be seen in the future. It is also important that we have to change animal welfare from the basics, because there are still a lot of bad examples in people's minds that need to be jerked off in some way. [[17.50]] I am very pleased that it has just been announced today that a programme of education and training for children in the child protection management system will be launched with the help of several organisations, of course, with the help of politics, in relation to responsible animal farming. This is also extremely necessary, because it was just news from the day before yesterday that cat furs were sold on a market in Győr, for example, which I believe is part of the 21st century. It's pretty amazing in the first century. In conclusion, I would just like to say that I thank you very much for the support of opposition representatives and government representatives who have already supported this proposal at committee meetings, either at the judicial or legislative committee meeting, and, of course, I trust that they will continue to support it in the course of tomorrow. There is only one thing to draw attention to that is that, from the moment the social need, the need for pet lovers, the need for pet lovers and politics met, from then on, only the case section, the judges, must be aware of this, because now the legislation will allow for a truly deterrent and strict sentence to be imposed in Hungary. It would have been possible for judges to live with strong judgments, but now they will have the opportunity to make powerful, dissuasive judgments, but unfortunately they have not yet dared to take them. So I hope they get this message, too, that this is the social need for every animal to be punished. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2021-11-29-217	Thank you very much. As a member of the Democratic Coalition, Mr. László Varju requested a normal word.
u2021-11-29-218	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. At this stage in the negotiation of the law, I would like to emphasise a few things, which I will, of course, start by saying to myself, that I am pleased that there is, in essence, full agreement in this regard, and in many respects, and I will highlight one of them, for example, that there is a serious intention of the government to act against propagating animals. However, I would also like to say that there are things in this process that have failed to reach full agreement or to reach agreement, and I regret that there has been no support for the amendment or support for the amendments that have shown that there is an institutional owner of animal protection in the person of the Ombudsman, or that there is an animal protection fund that gives the opportunity to provide a protection background and an economic background of substantial magnitude. We fully agree that we would punish the organizers of animal fighting more severely, and in addition, the returning organizers should be punished separately, but there is agreement. The creation of a well-functioning animal protection guard is what is needed, and in this respect indeed, as my fellow Member has said, the criminal approach and practice in this sense will be the real issue, which shows that the ambition and the intention that Members and the parties, including the Democratic Coalition, could support here, is that, as I have met from Újpest as a single constituencies representative, many of those animal friends in the Angyalföld support us in this tightening up, I think this is absolutely important, and I would also like to support this endeavour myself. I'm glad we got here. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-29-219	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Would anyone else like to speak out of the remaining time frame? [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I must ask the rapporteur, because on behalf of the Government, State Secretary Völner has already indicated that he does not wish to speak, Mr Ovadi, to express his opinion and reflect on what has been said. [[Peter Ovádi says no.]] It says no. Thank you very much. Decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting, Honourable Parliament. It should be noted that the most civilized debate over the past period has been held with regard to animals. [[Defiance.]] Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on legislative harmonisation and other amendments to certain health, health insurance and pharmaceutical legislation and related legislation, as well as the discussion of the summarised amendment, follow up. The government referral is T/17278. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Congresswoman Márta Mátrai, Housekeeper of the Parliament, is the rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-11-29-220	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 25 November 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed bill No 17278 amending certain health, health insurance and pharmaceutical legislation and related legislation for legal harmonisation and other purposes. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, With the legislative package before us, we would like to carry out a number of legislative harmonisation tasks, and the proposal also includes a number of points of law, as well as a mandate to draft regulations. Allow me to list some of these. I would first like to mention the issue of medical devices, which relates to the provisions of the new EU medical regulation, which entered into force on 25 May 2017, which should be fully applied for in vitro diagnostic medical devices from 26 May 2022. The proposal will then also address changes to the rules on the adaptation of the specialist training system and related health activities. Residents will be able to take part in their training, thanks to the proposal, in which they will be authorised to carry out independent activities with the successful performance of certain activities. The bill also includes legislation taken into account by the Hungarian Chamber of Pharmacy, which aims to ensure that patients are served with safe medicines. We must prevent patients from being harmed by improper treatment of medicines during the delivery of the package. The proposal also includes amendments to the social law. Institutions providing temporary accommodation for the elderly, disabled, addicts or psychiatric patients until 31 December 2022 have their current operational arrangements. After that date, they would need to be transformed into permanent housing institutions or subsidised housing forms, but social institutions providing temporary care have indicated several obstacles and risks to the portfolio in recent years, which is why the Social Act 138. delete the rule imposing a transformation obligation pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4. Finally, I would like to mention that the proposal also covers the functioning of the practice communities, so that their activities, cooperation and coordination can be defined and regulated by law. I believe that the bill before us must be supported, because it serves a number of constructive purposes and implementations, which is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill before us. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-11-29-221	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask Secretary of State Ildikó Horváth to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] It says no. The designated People's Welfare Committee, Honourable Parliament, did not present a rapporteur. We now have speeches from Members. Dear Parliament, Anybody want to tell me? [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he has anything to say. [[There's no such signal.]] Congresswoman Mátrai? I'm guessing you don't want to tell me.
u2021-11-29-222	No, thank you very much. [[18.00]]
u2021-11-29-223	Thank you very much. The rapporteur does not wish to speak, so I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda, Honourable Parliament. First up, Congressman Gergely Kálló, representative of Jobbik. He will address his speech with the title of our common affairs. Here you go.
u2021-11-29-224	Dear House, Mr President, Thank you for the floor. I brought a story from Dunaújváros, which contains all kinds of turns, but mostly about robbing and cheating people. In Dunaújváros, the district heating service provider and the hot water service provider have been the DVCSH business. In recent years, the attacks on the people have been carried out, but the previous city administration has left this, so to speak, no moustache with the company, despite the fact that it could have done so several times. On the other hand, the new city administration, standing up for the Dunaújváros, has concluded a contract with DVCSH. Why did you do that? In February of this year, DVCSH simply closed the district heating service without warning or warning, so in kindergartens would not have access to warm rooms and would have to be in rooms of 5-10 degrees. The municipality did not allow this and turned to the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, reported against DVCSH. The Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office has violated the DVCSH and has given the local government the truth. After that, the municipality, quite rightly, terminated a contract with DVCSH. The processes continued, at the end of which the already mentioned MEH assigned DVG as a district heating service provider in the city from July 1. Yes, but DVCSH simply refused to take note of this, and for more than five months he harassed people with his accounts, and went so far as to use even an executive in the person of the GLOBAL Factor, who was a thousand companies linked to DVCSH. Even though the municipality called upon the DVCSH to stop its unlawful conduct, it did not. In fact, we have come to the point that the local Fidesz did not stand up for the people in any way, did not enter into an alliance with the municipality in order to permanently clean up the DVCSH from our city. In fact, they've got it all figured out. In any event, the municipality has tried to avoid double payments by Dunaújváros to various service providers. Therefore, the municipality has done so that those who paid the invoice to DVCSH until October, despite the fact that it requested that the municipality compensates, but, now hold on, the local Fidesz faction did not vote for this. Well, that's how they stood up for Duna New Town. But I'll give you a steeper one. They didn't vote for it, but now the municipal representative Konrád Lőrinczi asked for his compensation, the compensation that was not voted for the benefit of the Dunaújváros. Well, there's skin on the face. Whatever. But let's not just say problems, let's find solutions. Therefore, and here I ask the Fidesz Members, to present a proposal for a resolution to Parliament. This proposal for a decision states that if a public office prohibits invoicing to a service provider, except for the clearing account, it should not be able to submit an invoice to the public. This is included in our proposal for a resolution. We therefore ask the Fidesz Members to vote in favour of the Hungarian people when this proposal for a resolution can be presented to the committee and Parliament, because there is no such regulation at the moment, and there is no such body that would immediately strike down on the service providers who would be able to bill against the ban. Thank you for the floor. I'll remain a servant of my district.
u2021-11-29-225	Thank you very much. Congressman Csaba Nagy, representative of Fidesz, can now speak after the agenda: "Szentlőrinc city development" Here you go.
u2021-11-29-226	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The third most populous city of my own constituency is Szentlőrinc, with a population of slightly over 6,400 people. Due to the economic weight and the transport node nature of the settlement, it traditionally plays a central role. In recent years, the city has developed and developed a number of improvements that support the everyday life of the Szentlőrincs and those living in the surroundings. In the framework of the operational programme for territorial and urban development, about HUF 1.2 billion of non-refundable and co-financed funding was channeled into the city, some of which was in my previous county presidential activity, and the others in my work. On the bicycle route connecting Szentlőrinc and its part of the settlement, Tartápuszta, the municipality won some HUF 177 million in 2017. The project was completed in 2020 to greatly improve transport and sport opportunities for Tartápuszta people. The tender works for the construction of the industrial area, which were won in 2017, were launched in 2020, with two universal production halls of some 442 square metres, which could be extended twice as much. The investment can strengthen the city's economic weight, giving it the opportunity to create new jobs. It was also decided in 2017 to renovate and expand the kindergarten on Liszt Ferenc Street. With the government's support for more than HUF 265 million, the municipality managed to obtain additional HUF 129 million in additional funding, thus avoiding borrowing that would threaten its economic stability. The works could finally start in 2021. During the project, the quality of the care was improved, new cradle seats could be created, and besides the playground rooms were renewed, as well as leisure spaces, heating kitchens and medical rooms. In 2018, the sponsorship decision was made on the application of the Green City, the works of which could be completed in 2021, from some HUF 200 million. The Urbach Square, located in the center of the Szentlőrinc, has become an active community spot for all ages of the city. The space has been enriched with new playground elements, sports park, promenades, public lighting, security camera system that meet today's requirements. In the summer of 2021, the municipality received more than HUF 105 million in support of the modernisation and construction of the precipitation water drainage system, focusing on several areas of the city, such as the surroundings of the Temple Square, the environment of the Arany János utca kindergarten, the Youth Route and the drainage of the area south of the railway line. A new market will soon be established in Szentlőrinc from around HUF 109 million under the rural development programme, and the modern publicized facility will be set up in almost 400 square metres of basic space. The aim of the investment is to ensure that small producers in Szentlőrinc and in the area can sell their local products under orderly, clean and safe conditions, thus helping to boost the local economy of the city and its surroundings. Within the framework of the National Recreational Health Sports Park, this 150-square-metre sports park was built in 2020 in the city's block-house area, which provides an active sport opportunity for young people. Szentlőrincen The project where we supported local food development was funded by HUF 9.5 million from the central budget of 2020. In the framework of this, the kindergarten and crèche of Szentlőrinc in the building of Arany János utca heated kitchen was renewed. Soon the government window of the district office of Szentlőrinc will be expanded. With a government grant of HUF 100 million, the office's roof space will be installed, so the government window of the Szentlőrinc District Office, the administrative and guardian's department will be available in one place. Thanks to the developments, the Szentlőrinci, the people living in the surroundings, can conduct their official affairs in one place in modern circumstances. There have also been major improvements on the Szentlőrinc SE football field, a new bleachers and water block, electric lighting suitable for television broadcasting, and then a complete remodeling of the track takes place. Let's be proud of this team, because they make the city's reputation all over the country, they talk about it. Szentlőrinc can become the second strongest and most important football center in the county. In addition to the NB II and County NB I adult team, 11 bands are competed among the children, over 200 children play football here. [[18.10]] The city's population is looking forward to the construction of the school. We have good news here. The export plan has been completed, the public procurement procedure has been announced for implementation. Offers are expected from the contractors until 7 December; the construction of the swimming pool can start in 2022. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-11-29-227	Thank you very much. After the agenda, MEP Bence Tuzson, representative of Fidesz, applied for a speech with the title: "Sports Developments in the 5th Constituencies of Pest County." Here you go.
u2021-11-29-228	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dunakeszi, Fot, God, Csomad, Csömör, Erdőkertes and Veresegyház are at the forefront of the development. This is one of the fastest developing regions in the country. But now several surveys prove that it is not only a fast-growing area, but also the region in which to live, which is also the most livable area for Hungary. What's the secret? In addition to Budapest, there may be an area that can provide people with a living conditions that a large city like Budapest does not have very much or much difficulty with. There's a simple reason for that. In addition to making improvements to invest in people's immediate interests, we also make sure that people's quality of life is improved and improved in this area. Such are our investment in transport development that we are working on, and even before the Parliament we have talked about this issue, our issues of education development, our issues of health development. But besides improving health, it is very important to pay attention to prevention. And prevention involves sports development. They say and several surveys show that in order to be able to live a full life, to spend as many years in health as possible, not only genetics is needed, not only the good health system, but also the way of life, to enhance lifestyle, that is, to live a life that anticipates a healthy life. This requires sport. It is a great pleasure for me that there is a strong community here in Dunakeszin and its surroundings, which pays attention to sports, to living a life that strengthens him in a healthy life and to having a healthy life in the future, because in this area we have 7,000 athletes who also play sports in a sports club, and tens of thousands of people who do not only in sports clubs but also in everyday activities, so every day. Allow me, without the need for completeness, to list some of the 62 improvements that we have made, and 15 improvements that are also being made in the field of sport, which will be implemented in the future! On the one hand, we implemented a new building next to the sports field in Csomad. This building serves the health of the Csomadians, it was also a sports development, a very important development. We created a school football field here, we built a sports park, and even a new bike road was created in Csomad. We have made several improvements in Csömör. On the one hand, a regional bike centre is also being built, but the urban sports hall has been partially renovated in recent years. Two gym parks were built, a sports park was created, and the country's largest so-called pump track was created here. In the forest garden the development of the gym was possible, and we also created a sports park in the village of Erdőkertes. Several improvements were made in Veresegyháza. On the one hand, a basketball hall could be created; the Reformed Elementary School's gymnasium, sports yard, sports park, bike park was also established; the outdoor sports field of the Catholic High School could also be implemented, and even recently a handball work hall was handed over. We have a lot of improvements in progress. Allow me to highlight the construction of the new 24-room school, which will be completed together with a gymnasium and outdoor sports field. We also have the training hall development of the Wheat Eye Elementary School, and it is a great pleasure for us that Gödi SE is also committed to sports development. I would particularly like to thank President László Horváth here, as he plans to build a serious sports hall. You can count on our support. The Treasurem Kindergarten Court also had a kindergarten sports field. Several football developments have been implemented in the care of Gödi SE, a new sports park has been created, and even an outdoor basketball court has been created for the Huzella Tivadar Primary School. Also on foton, allow me to briefly mention a serious development, which is the development of a sports hall, which is currently underway; a sports park and a bike park were built. The city of Dunakeszi has most of the development. During the next period, a serious sports field, an urban sports hall will be handed over, but there will be artificial grass court, sports field renovations, construction of a new schoolhouse we are especially proud of this, expansion of the 24-room school sports hall and a lot of high-school schools. I would like these developments to take place here, in the field of sport, and I wish to the locals, the Dunakesians and the people in the area, that they should use these developments and do much for their health. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-29-229	Thank you very much. Congressman László Horváth, representative of Fidesz, will be following:, Greetings to the School Guards. Here.
u2021-11-29-230	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, For the second year, the school guard has been operating in hundreds of schools in the country. Based on the experience gained so far, it can be said that the establishment of a school guard was justified and that the school guard is able to significantly strengthen the security of schools. It has also been proven that time has proved, as has already been the case, that the political actions of the Left attacking the school guard, spreading horror and false news, inciting mistrust, were unfounded and unjustified in this case as well. As a basis, it should be stated that violence and any form of violence in a school are unacceptable and unacceptable. In a school where there is violence, there can be neither study nor teach, and where there is neither teaching nor learning, that institution is no longer a school. Every student should have the right to a calm learning experience, and every teacher should have the right to a calm teaching. Every student, teacher, every employee in a school deserves human dignity and personal security. We are well aware that the roots of school violence must be sought not in school, but in the family and social environment of the aggressors, that a process must be handled, because it is a hard road to becoming an aggressor. School psychologists, school social workers, various training programs should help both teachers, students and families to identify and treat violence and, if possible, avoid it. But if there is a problem, violence at school needs to be responded quickly and decisively. There's no excuse. The school guard primarily has a deterrent role, it acts as such, it can act according to the experience so far. The mere personal presence, the immediate and rapid intervention on the ground, and the possibility of assistance provide a sense of security for teachers and students alike. School guards help teachers not only to deal with acute violence but also to prevent them. It can also be said that the positive result of the presence of school guards is the improvement of general discipline, the reduction of disorderly conduct, physical and verbal aggression, and attacks. The news was that the school guards not only settled in the institutions without problems but also quickly became part of the school communities. It is also not negligible that school guards have been able to actively take action to prevent emergencies, to comply with the epidemiological rules and to enforce them. Thank you for that. And now some talkative and instructive songs. Once again, the number of public education and vocational training institutions voluntarily participating in the school guard programme is 489. Since its September 2020, in addition to the institutions joining the programme, around a hundred other public education institutions have indicated their need for a schoolmaster. This indicates that there is a need for this institution and that there is still confidence in it. [[18.20]] Between September 2020 and October 2021, school guards took action in 478 cases, in all cases legally, legally and in proportion. Out of the 478 cases, 215 cases were called, 95 were confirmed, 68 were withheld, 34 were involved in medical assistance, and only then was the application of physical coercion in 28 cases out of 478 cases. They participated in emergency response 14 times, and the use of the baton had to take place only once out of the 478 measures. And the use of the chemical device is 0, that is zero. I am reminded of the sentence of DK's lead speaker, who, in the parliamentary debate on the bill, said that the government wanted to punish young people with batons and handcuffs. The numbers show that it was a massive slide. The truth is, on the other hand, that the government is serving the safety of students, teachers and workers in schools with the school-watching programme and the conditions for implementing the programme, and as long as this government controls the country, it will remain so. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-29-231	Thank you very much. Congressman László Varju, the representative of DK, may speak after the agenda:. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. Here.
u2021-11-29-232	Thank you very much for the floor. Last week a very important event took place in the life of Újpest, as the document of support has finally arrived for the implementation of the 2021. év év év év év év év év ép az építés Budapest. This isn't the hospital in Újpest and its services, but it's a big step forward. At the beginning of the year, we have set the important goal of moving forward in Newpesten, in the framework of the Healthy Budapest programme. In 2019, after the municipal elections, the municipality tried to call for health promotion support of HUF 10 billion a year, and by spring the leadership of the Metropolitan Municipality and the government accepted and supported this initiative. The Újpest part of this is exactly 528 million 750 thousand forints in 2021. This money will be used to renovate the Mental Hygiene Care Centre on Summer Street in 2022, to receive radiological X-rays, to purchase flexible cystoscopes for urology, gastroenterology can acquire endoscopic towers with two endoscopes, adult dentistry and dental surgery can work with a new surgical engine, children's clinic can be enriched with magnetic resonance devices, we can develop an outdated IT network, we can purchase new node devices, we can provide the self-part of the movement organ rehabilitation centre that is now being built and we can also cover the wage costs arising from it. The opposition-led municipalities are experiencing a very difficult period, so as the parliamentary representative of the district it is of particular importance that Újpest has taken this opportunity and can solve as much of this as possible in cooperation with the capital. Mayor Tibor Déri and his team manage transparent farming and use all the inflow forints for the benefit of the people. This is also the case with the support received within the framework of the I am, of course, working as a representative of Újpest and Angel Land, and I will continue to work in the future to give the district more such support and will continue to be used by the city administration for the benefit of the people. In many cases, we have seen in the last 12 years that similar subsidies or billions of EU development grants in Hungary often disappear into the maze of close-to-government companies and friends. It's different in New Heaven. This money is spent transparently by the municipality for the benefit of the people until the last forint. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-11-29-233	Thank you very much. Congressman László Hajdu, the representative of DK, can speak five minutes after the agenda:. Just trying to steal the BKV or the entire capital? It's an address. Here.
u2021-11-29-234	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Today, I have solved the question that caused me to apply for post-scheduled contributions, as today the mayor of Budapest could sign the contract on the basis of which he will receive 12 billion Budapest public transport. I have to add that the Finance Act guarantees this HUF 12 billion, and this was distributed at the last minute before Christmas, although the BKV, public transport, has had to work since January. The government, which calls itself a national, has an interesting style against the population living in Budapest, that is, in the capital of the nation. That's what the BKV support suggests. Public transport should be supported in a predictable way, financed, in a normative, predictable way, and not with individual decisions, and also left to the last moments, as if to give favor to the inhabitants of the city with the last-minute contract. By the time the amount stipulated in the contract is transferred by the Treasury, it may be New Year's Eve. This means that in a city where 1.7 million citizens live, where an additional 1 million passengers and tourists move through agglomeration transport, public transport operates in such uncertainty. Mayors of the districts led by the Democratic Coalition held a press conference in the presence of Balázs Barkóczi. By the way, Balázs Barkóczi will be my successor, because I am already giving my swan speech here in Parliament, because I will finish my post-Fiveth term career. Well, Balázs Barkóczi also said that there is discriminatory financing for certain districts of Budapest. That's what the numbers prove. Last Christmas, the local governments of the Fidesz majority county towns received 23 billion forints of money, and this year in September in Budapest, where public transport has not yet received the 12 billion of the Fidesz majority districts with a single decision of 14.9 billion forints, of course, for the same works that this city does not have money for, which it cannot afford. And the reason he doesn't get it is because the source from which the road construction, the pavement construction, the park construction, the playground construction, the potholeing and much more would have hit Budapest the most. The Fidesz districts received the HUF 14.9 billion just for road construction. So a certain part of the city is preferred, in the other part the axles are broken, the cars or vehicles go to the pothole, and in those districts there is no road construction. The other reason why the government's position regarding the capital's financing is incomprehensible is that 287 of the 500 largest companies are in this city, and the taxed result that the government is skimming is more than 2500 billion forints. This is more than 19 counties together, as their taxed result is only HUF 1500 billion for the 500 largest taxpayers. This situation is unworthy, and the population of the capital does not deserve it, because in districts where there is a majority on the left, there are also right-wing voters and they are also punished. I believe that the proportionate and uniform development of the city's public transport should also be in the interest of the national government. Thank you very much. [[18.30]]
u2021-11-29-235	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Varga, the representative of DK, now Lajos Kósa has papers from the D.A.'s office that he is lying! It's an address. Here.
u2021-11-29-236	Thank you very much. Perhaps my fellow Member Gergely Kálló began his speech and speech by bringing a story. I brought you a story, too, but I have to add that, unfortunately. But before I do that, we can agree that the Hungarian soul is special. It is special just because the soul, the Hungarian soul, has a very characteristic sense of humor, that even in the most difficult situations we can grin a good grin and make jokes about what might be crying. So far, I think there is nothing wrong with that, not even because without this well-known Hungarian humor, I think that the current system might not even survive. The question is, what's behind all this, that you're actually talking about humor, because it doesn't matter if a smart person is fooling around or a stupid person is being smart. Especially when we talk about the leadership of a country, its leading politicians. The problem now is that it is difficult to decide on leading pro-government politicians that their badly executed performances, perhaps thought humorous by them, will have to be suffered by the stunned Hungarian audience, or that everything we see is long ago not humor, but bloody serious to put it in a nuance, this is already the normal state of operation of these politicians. Let's face it, it's not normal for a politician to get involved in a multibillion-dollar gift scandal in a case where the basic position is that a significant proportion of a leading bank in Europe is given to him by a household woman, a housewife, who works in cucumber production, and the politician's mother quickly receives a gift of 800 million. But the most insane thing is that the communication and response of the ruling party is that our man, the main character in the case, is probably not even aware of what he's doing. Of course, the very rich Hungarian language is used to express this with much stronger adjectives let me not do this now! Unfortunately, the bell case is not particularly striking, not even surprising, as the number of cases such as this is linked to the name of the chairman of the Defence Committee. We're not just thinking about your 2014 famous cap action, although everyone knows this, or that you're afraid of the Tutsi, the Hutu, or that you don't know who you are or your mother's 82-year-old brundal BMW sports engine, or your pig farm, or your shocking reasoning at Debrecen Television that she thinks it's the Dutch who's responsible for Trianon. But not even to the fact that, in addition to its numerous leading positions, it is opting for billions of state investments and resources, let us consider the investment of the MotoGP course of Hajdúnána and the special and extraordinary events surrounding it. Because unfortunately, the latest mental low-flying confirms all this, the fact that as the responsible president of the Defence Commission, he accidentally blows his mouth, talks about what happened in a closed session, and says to the camera without any particular inhibition that one of the biggest scandals in the Orbán course, the Pegasus case, in his opinion, is related to the government, because he believes that it was purchased by the Ministry of the Interior and that he was monitoring opposition public figures, journalists or economic operators. Of course, we know very well, because we all were amazed to see the television footage that he did all this after the government had been embarrassingly lying for many months, and he insisted on the contrary that they had nothing to do with it. Then our man came along, and on the door of the 50-year secret committee meeting, with a single sentence, destroyed the lying orbán narrative, built with bloody sweat. With one sentence, one word! But that's not the weirdest part of the case. It's what the D.A.'s office thinks about all this. After all, the D.A.'s office has already written that Lajos Kósa, because, yes, he lied about it because he didn't say what Lajos Kósa said at the committee meeting, and then he said it five minutes later in front of the television screen. I'll translate what happened again. For most of the time, he defends the ruling party by saying that one of his leading politicians has no shot at the events around him, is lying, or is even more obvious, simply out of control. We don't know, but we do know that this is madness. Lajos Kósa and the government, if for no other reason, that's why I'm sure he'll have to fail. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-11-29-237	Thank you very much. Mr. János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, will now address his speech with the title "Change of the Age." Here.
u2021-11-29-238	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, Let us say: not only are our Hungarian compatriots the victims of this current epidemic, who will catch Covid, but also those who are excluded from the public health care system because of this epidemic, and those of our compatriots who, because of this pandemic, are unable to obtain adequate medical care in time. Since November 15, the planned, but not emergency, interventions or surgeries have been suspended at the peaceful hospital in Csaba, and this action puts a number of my fellow countrymen in Békés County in a very hopeless situation. When this news was made public, I asked my fellow Peaceful countrymen to write their personal stories to me, to what difficulty this provision had put themselves in person, and the next minute, the letters began to pour into my mailbox, and these people shared with me more horrific stories out of trust. These stories were quite heartbreaking, and man really cannot wish any of these to his most evil, worst enemy. Then I have decided to bring all these cases, with which I have been honoured by the citizens of the Peaceful County, to Miklós Kásler's table, and to wait for the Minister, together with the people of the Peaceful County, to say something encouraging, if at all possible. Since then, the Csabai lady, who has been operated on three times in recent months with her kidney stones, has been waiting for an answer, but has failed on all three occasions. But there is another kind of treatment that promises more success, but it would be this other kind of treatment, because this treatment, this surgery, this intervention, has now been postponed for an uncertain period of time, referring to the epidemic. So for many weeks, months, this woman will surely have to live with this torture and burning problem, which will overshadow every day and every night. Just as the Minister expects an answer to his question from the father of peace in Csaba, whose five-week-old child should have been taken to a hip examination and hip screening that was due in these days, but was scheduled for the next time in mid-January. By the way, this father lives on wages and salaries, every month with honor and honor, he pays that many, many thousands of forints into the Hungarian social insurance register, and then, as a responsible father, he had to have his child tested on private roads for 13 thousand forints so that they could carry out this investigation on time. But in the same way, the Minister is also waiting for a friendly Mr. Csabai, who has had a six-inch plastic tube sticking out of his neck for months. He's a dialysis man, and he can't wait to replace this 30-inch tube from his neck with a fistula to be placed in one arm or another, which will make his life very difficult and problematic even a little easier. As that gentleman from Gerlai is waiting for surgery, perhaps one day he will have to operate on his groin hernia. He was told to call sometime in the middle of January, and then maybe we could tell him something. But there's also a lady in Csaba waiting for surgery, a gynecologist who's been living with her broken uterus for five months. Do you know why her surgery was canceled at the hospital in Chabai? That's because there's no anesthetic because there's no anesthetist to do this procedure with. But the lady with breast cancer in Gyula is also waiting to be examined, and there is only one study that separates her from getting her treatment in front of the onkoteam and finally getting her treatment started. But for this one, upcoming, last-minute examination in the next month, you have no chance of being done, and you all know very well in this room what this one month of illness means to be the difference between life and death. Shame on you for putting tens of thousands of Hungarians in this position! Thank you for your attention.
u2021-11-29-239	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, the Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Thank you for your work, good evening, good night.
