u2017-03-21-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 10th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and István Szávay will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP, applied for the speech before the agenda today: . Why does the government insist on the expansion of the Paks? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-03-21-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Three years ago, Viktor Orbán signed the nuclear pact secretly with Vladimir Putin, and since then there has been no answer to the fundamental question of Hungary's economic policy and foreign policy for decades, why they are so stubbornly insisting on enlargement. What we have learned about this investment today is that there is no rational explanation for it, and what we suspect about it, based on it, we must fight with all our might to prevent this crazy plan. We also do not know why the treaty to bind the country had to be signed in January 2014. The agreement was not prepared. Parliament and the profession have only been prepared to examine the necessity and potential of the investment, to issue an international tender, to compete technologies and suppliers. Instead, Mr.Orbán came back from Moscow with an unspeakable, unfavorable Russian giant loan, surprising everyone with a permanent construction, an experimental reactor type with a number of technical problems that has never been tested anywhere in the world. We don't understand why, because the government's arguments are on the verge of reality. Now I'm listing four items. Firstly, it is not true that the pact was concluded because of cheap electricity, because since the Rothschild study, we have a certificate that the electricity produced in Paks II must be expensive, otherwise the investment will never be repaid. Secondly, it is not true that it is a good business because the Commission believes that the project needs state aid. By the way, private money is not built anywhere in our environment nuclear power plants, they use public funds everywhere. Private capital invests in solar and wind energy with much better rates of return. Thirdly, it is not true that, because of the security of electricity supply, the purpose of secure energy production is much more effectively served by a decentralised energy system based on a wide range of energy sources than if 60-70% of the country's power supply is produced at one point in a single power plant. In the latter case, a single terrorist attack, a technical failure or a natural disaster can put the whole energy sector, the entire economy and the population to the ground. And, of course, it is not true that, in order to reduce dependence on energy imports, Hungary is dependent on Russia to an extreme extent on energy imports. This dependence cannot be reduced by a Russian loan, Russian technology, Russian-based nuclear power plant using Russian fuel. On the contrary, enlargement will increase our vulnerability. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, the Paks riddle also has an answer. On the one hand, it is clear that President Putin is in charge of Viktor Orbán, the expansion project is not in Hungarian interest, and Hungary will not be his beneficiary. The Russian economy has been panging for years. They are dependent on every major export success, and a nuclear power plant sold to an EU Member State is already visible in its GDP. This is obvious to everyone since Putin's visit to Budapest in February at the latest, when the President shouted at Viktor Orbán that it was not possible to replace the Russian giant loan with a market loan with a more favourable interest rate, while the Hungarian government has been saying for years that market credit would be much cheaper. The other reason is of a financial nature. The corruption gains from the expansion project are estimated by experts at HUF 400-600 billion, and the expected orders are also useful for the Fidesz-near economic lunar station, after all the EU funds will be abducted by the government by 2018. There are therefore reasons, but there is no acceptable reason. The future of Hungary cannot be determined for half a century by the Russian interest or by the greed of the oligarchs of Fidesz. And neither Putin nor Viktor Orbán nor Butcher and his associates can decide for us. The fate of the pointless nuclear power plant expansion must be judged by a referendum. We expect the government to stop lying about the expansion of Paks, take its own position and stop preventing the Hungarian people from giving their opinion on it. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-03-21-2	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Nándor Csepreghy will respond.
u2017-03-21-3	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I can't say that you've given me too many surprises with your speech. Since 2014, the LMP has put forward the same arguments, so allow me to run into it again in case I can update and replace the documents it has written in 2014. The Hungarian government, when making a decision on the Paks investment in essence, made no decision other than to renew this capacity after the Paks I nuclear power plant blocks expired. Why did the Hungarian government make such a decision? Because we believe and the figures show that there is no guarantee that Hungary will be able to replace this level of green energy from green energy after the end of the operation of the Paks nuclear power plant blocks. The LMP can repeat that this can be done, but the numbers do not show this. You always say that it would be a much more profitable investment for Hungary to produce the loss of Paks capacity from renewable energy sources. But let's see what the numbers say. Only in 2016, in terms of energy production last year, Germany, mentioned as a model in green energy production, needed state aid equivalent to HUF 7680 billion, aid from German taxpayers' money, so that German green energy production could survive by paying HUF 90 for 1 kilowatt hour energy in Germany, while the Hungarian population received the same amount of electricity at HUF 30. On the interpretation of the Paks debate, it is strange for you to mention the referendum, because the debate on the Paks debate, the holding of the Paks nuclear power plant capacity, was already one of the main topics of the 2014 parliamentary elections, thanks, among other things, to you. Thus, the voter number against Paksot, which you were able to collect, is 269 414 votes, so many supported the LMP's policy, as opposed to the Fidesz government supporting the Paks expansion and taking into account the interests of the people, which received 2 264 780 votes. This is the difference between the positions of the Paksot supporters and the Paksot rejecters. [[9.10]] We also do not agree, Madam President, that it would be a clear refusal to maintain nuclear power plant capacity in the European Union; we also see that the European Union is rightly seeking to maintain a balanced energy mix, in which renewable energy sources play a role, nuclear power capacities and fossil energy play a role. If the industrial predictions you refer to in relation to green energy come true, then nothing other than Hungary will be able to significantly reduce its dependence on natural gas, which will contribute to the production of electricity in Hungary today. Nor is it true that the European Union would go exclusively towards green energy; it is taking steps to do so, but it is very important to take the value for money into account. I think that one of the most important aspects of the current Hungarian government should be that there should be predictable, reasonable prices and energy production in the country guaranteeing adequate security of supply. The Americans, the French, are worth maintaining and expanding nuclear power plants, it is worth it in the Scandinavian countries - why not in Hungary? And here there are potentials: the qualities that come from the fact that nuclear power plant capacities based on Russian technology are operating in Hungary at the moment, and there is no economic rationality to replace this technology, so that it is one of the leading technologies in the world, with another technology. However, there is, and there is room for discussion in the government, that when the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is completed and the new production blocks are taken over, we can purchase this type of capacity not only from the Russians but also from other suppliers on the world market, such as the French or, where appropriate, the Americans. So on the issue of Paks enlargement: security of supply and acceptable price. The one who attacks the Paks expansion is attacking the reduction of the rent. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true!]] In the case of LMP, we have seen that this alone was enough to obtain 269 thousand votes. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-21-4	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Csepreghy. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, from the MSZP Group, spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-03-21-5	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, After the change of regime, one of our prime ministers said that I would like a country where it is not only worth being born, but also worth living. And yes, a government, but also a politician, is judged and defined by how he treats, how he thinks about the poor, the fallen, the minority in his country. 2017 Unfortunately, it is not good to live in Hungary, for almost no one, except for the small 10 percent who steal and urinate the state's wealth at the expense of more than 90 percent. Fidesz's inhuman, insensitive attitude and politics can't even be masked by the brainwashed KSH data. Since 2010, the number of people living below the living minimum has risen from 3 million to 4.5 million. Perhaps this is one of the most disappointing data from the past eight years. It's a very sad mirror. Since 2018 For the difference between the poor and the rich has increased eightfold. Your perverted economic and social policy has now achieved that 50 percent of the families have become worthless, and every third Hungarian family is unable to create the conditions for a normal, decent life in Hungary for itself and for their loved ones. This silly and inhumane politics has hit the middle class. Two thirds of Hungarians cannot tolerate and handle any unexpected expenses. In 2017, if you have money, you get normal health care; if you don't have money, you stay sick. If you have money, you can get a high-quality education service; if you don't have money, you can't have your child trained. The number of middle-class families and parents who are forced to buy knowledge outside this silly centralised education system has risen horribly. And not only foreign language and informatics, they have to buy mathematics, history and literature outside. And I would add here: a government and its politicians are rated by it, determined by how they treat children, how they think about the future, the opportunities of the future generation. And if Fidesz has had deficits and shame and bitterness since 2010, it's what they did with the education system. In eight years they have achieved that Hungarian children are slowly performing worse than everyone else. The latest PISA results clearly demonstrated the extent of the destruction. You have also managed to reverse the very difficult past achievements that we have achieved after the change of regime through the efforts of right- and left-wing governments. A third of the children in Hungary are functionally illiterate. You know, that's the word that Zoltán Balog, Minister of Education, didn't know. Perhaps this is why, unfortunately, the number of functional illiterates in Hungary has increased by 10 percent since 2010. But there's another terrifying data: 43,000. 43,000 children have fallen out of the Hungarian school system since 2011 since the school obligation was delivered from 18 to 16. Where are these kids? They're not in the crime statistics, they're not in the public works statistics. By the way, in the last four years, the number of people under the age of 17 has increased by 187 times in the world of public workers. You've basically legalized child labor. How are these people gonna pay taxes and make a living? But there's another number: 30,000. In May, more than 30,000 children will graduate from a class they didn't even know what they had to do at Christmas. How can they do this to so many children? ! Even those who have studied fairly for the past four to five years can not prepare normally. They can't do that to these kids. They consciously trashed and destroyed an entire generation, a conscious goal is for as few people as possible to successfully graduate and get to a normal profession and a degree. This is the result of your eight years. But there's money for a train, a glass bridge, a space centre on the outskirts of the village. And Hungarian children are not assigned any resources, or hardly. What you did to the Hungarian children and future generations, by the way, is the real treason, the real betrayal of our nation. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-21-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Csaba Dömötör will respond.
u2017-03-21-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You spoke in your speech about the quality of governance, and I think that it is very justified to take stock of the results of the government a year before the elections, what this government has done for the country. However, I regret that you have left out the most important results of what you have to say. Allow me to give you ten results here that may not be indifferent to the MSZP. You left these things out. This year, for example, economic growth will be 4 percent, affecting a number of areas [[Agnes Kunhalmi: The children get nothing of it!]] which you referred to, while in 2009 there was still a 7 percent decline. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: World Economic Crisis!]] 700,000 more people working than in 2010, while you guys are working. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true! The president's ringing the bell.]] unemployment has been doubled. I'm telling you this separately because there's no better way out of poverty than if everyone has a job. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Children of public workers!]] and serious steps [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Put the children in public work!]] made the country in this area. Tax fell further, corporate tax decreased in January [[Agnes Kunhalmi: What about VAT?]] The tax on employers' taxes, the VAT on the most important foods, has been reduced. That's why I'm telling you these things. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] 'Cause the MSZP didn't vote for them. [[9.20]] Wage increases due to falling taxes. You may have heard about yesterday's recent data that in January wages in Hungary increased by 10 percent compared to a year earlier. That's more than a month's salary plus on average. As far as health is concerned, there is a significant wage increase here. 207,000 more for specialists and 65 percent increase for nurses. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: They have to pay less and less because they are leaving the country!]] If you have time between two yellings, let me tell you that I will not be a partner in leanalfabeting Hungarian students. I consider it an important achievement to have more money for education in Hungary. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true!]] While in 2009 540,000 forints were awarded to a high school student, today this amount increased to 1 million 87 thousand forints, so it increased to more than double. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Meanwhile, the number of children has decreased!]] I would also like to say to you - this is what you said - that the number of people living in poverty has decreased. In 2015, the number of people living in extreme poverty fell from 293 thousand to 185 thousand, and although much remains to be done, we can hope that this improvement will continue. And just to mention three more: electricity and gas prices continue to be quarter cheaper, we managed to protect the value of pensions, and last but not least 318 thousand children get free meals, while in the previous period it was 92 thousand. These are just a few of the results that clearly indicate Hungary's strengthening. There are millions of people working on this, and I'm asking you not to take this away from them. On the other hand, we know quite little about what the MSZP would do on government, but what we know is both terrible and scandalous. The fact is that the left is preparing for a radical tax increase, and we know more and more about the details of this. So you'd pick up where you left off in 2010. They'd raise the income tax and abolish the family tax. We know very well that when the socialists talk about taxing so-called rich people, this actually means that they would put huge burdens on the necks of people with wages and salaries. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true!]] If the MSZP were to implement its plans, it would break the backbone of the Hungarian middle class again. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true! The backbone of the billionaires!]] The tax increase plan is particularly outrageous because we know that the MSZP would give free money in some regions without any work, and it would be paid by hardworking Hungarian families every day. I think it's scandalous. The basic income is something that very few people get, but very, very many people pay for it. If you're so obsessed with tax increases, you should put extra taxes on Gábor Simon, whose account was parked in hundreds of millions. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: To Garanchi, to Butcher!]] To László Puch or to Ferenc Gyurcsány, who has broken hundreds of millions. [[Lajos Korózs: To Rachel Orbán!]] In any case, László Botka's leadership is just like any previous socialist leadership, acting like Miklós Hagyó, and has the same ideas as Ferenc Gyurcsány. It's clear that if the left came back, [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Then you'd go to jail!]] It would mean nothing more to the country but a tax increase, resulting in declining wages, a reduction in the family support system and a re-aid-based economy instead of work. That's enough to say a massive no to these plans, let's say, in the 2018 election. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-21-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr János Latorcai, Vice-President, from the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2017-03-21-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Yesterday an exhibition entitled "Visegrád to Visegrád" was opened in the hall of the House of Representatives, which records the memories of the past, but also sends a message to the future. This exhibition is a true impression of the history of the Central European region. The exhibited posters show the economic, political struggles and cultural diversity of the countries of the region from the first Visegrád King's meeting to the establishment of the V4s. It is instructive for all of us to see how similar the problems in each of the countries concerned have been and how intertwined our history has been. Knowledge of our historical past can help us to rise above the perceived and real grievances and prevent us from being played out of Eastern and Western political interests against each other. Central Europe is a matter of fact in the geographical sense, but in political terms it has often been removed from the maps, even removed from public thinking. By the end of the eighties, however, the interrelated system-shifting movements in the region were able, after many decades, to believe that here, on the border between the East and the West, we had a particular culture, a common memory, and, last but not least, common goals. This recognition brought the Visegrád Four to life on February 15, 1991. The goals set at that time, democratic transformation and Euroatlantic integration have now become reality, and the joint thinking and cooperation of the countries of the Central European region has become part of everyday life. The Visegrád Group has now gained considerable and tangible recognition. Cooperation between the V4 countries can deliver concrete results in a number of areas of policy and in EU interest enforcement. This is extremely important because the European Union is now facing deeper and more complex challenges than ever before. As they say, Europe is facing a turning point today. In order to find himself again in the face of the challenges, we need to rediscover our common roots, the values and traditions from Christendom that have forged and preserved us for a thousand years. Central Europe has a great deal to do in this process, but we will only succeed if we are able to learn and build a lesson from our shared history. Maria Koc, the vice-president of the Polish Senate, visited Hungary yesterday to emphasize this, indicating the unbreakable Hungarian-Polish relations. At the end of the week, the Polish-Hungarian day of friendship took place in Piotrków Trybunalski. Ladies and gentlemen, According to our historical knowledge, Central Europe was established with the first King's meeting in 1335. Recent meetings of the following few years have not only strengthened political relations, but also brought economic results and success. The then established tariff and tax incentives have led to the opening of new trade routes, the emergence of new regional centres, ensuring the development of the citizens of the region and the countries of the region. In 1412 there was an agreement between Zsigmond of Luxembourg and Ulaszló of Jagelló to stop the Turkish advance, then János Sobieski and his troops drove the Turk out of our country. This could be a symbol of the struggle for our region's political and national independence. Our countries fought not only against the Turks, but also against the Habsburgs, the Russians and then the Soviets. Bem and Kossuth, the reception of Polish refugees from the Second World War, the Slovaks and Hungarians supporting the Warsaw uprising, the anti-communist events in Warsaw, Poznań, Budapest and Prague, and the related solidarity movements clearly indicate that we have been able to give each other an example and an example to the world through joint action. The Visegrád Four are still on this path today, but in doing so, we must never lose sight of Erhard Busek's warning: Central Europe is not some political miracle medicine, but a principle and opportunity that individual citizens have to implement in small things, from which they are not a new empire, but a new future. That's what he's teaching me, and that's what the exhibition opened yesterday is telling me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-21-10	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds.
u2017-03-21-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, He addressed an important issue in his speech, because I believe that strengthening cooperation in Visegrád is one of the most important developments in recent years on the EU scene. It is a cooperation that feeds on similar historical experiences and is based on common values. [[9.30]] I think it is a serious achievement that major EU decisions are always preceded by the negotiation of the Visegrád countries. We are following successful patterns here, such as the cooperation of the Benelux States or the Nordic States. These discussions will then bring a number of concrete results. Just to mention a few examples, the Visegrád Four, for example, share a common position that the main way to tackle the migration crisis is to protect the borders first and foremost. This is why the Visegrád countries help Hungarian border protection. Coordination of defence policy efforts is also crucial for the security of the region. A good example of this is the Baltic military exercise of the V4s. It is also an important development that Poland has initiated the launch of a joint V4 TV, which Hungary also supports. Enhanced cooperation can also be seen in other areas. I would like to recall here that the Visegrád Four are acting together against Western companies selling a lower quality product in our countries. A summit dedicated specifically to this topic has given rise to joint action. The issue of dual-quality foods also demonstrates that the Visegrád countries do not want them to be considered second-rate EU members and will act with all possible means against double standards. Dear House, If we look at economic indicators, we can see that this region could be Europe's new growth engine. The focus of economic growth can increasingly shift to this part of Europe. This is no coincidence, as the Visegrad countries have made enormous efforts in recent years to create jobs. This only meant 700 thousand new jobs in Hungary. These economic results are a good basis for Visegrád's participation in the debate on the future of Europe. We do not make it a secret that Europe needs redesign, that it must be able again to protect its communities, its culture and to strengthen its security again. We still want a Europe that is strong and strong because it builds on nation states and their diversity. This also means that the delicate balance between the EU institutions and the Member States should not be disrupted by stealth legislation. Dear House, Prime Minister József Antall said in the early 1990s that we should not approach Europe with feelings of inferiority. We cannot agree enough with this principle, which is why we are pleased that Visegrád cooperation is stronger than ever. This is why we feel it is an honor to have Hungary as President of the V4 as of July. We have great hopes for working together. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-21-12	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Dömötör. Szilárd Németh, from the Fidesz Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-21-13	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, This year we celebrate the 11th Hungarian-Polish friendship day in Piotrków Trybunalski, Central Poland. Lech Kaczyński and László Sólyom inaugurated the monument of Hungarian-Polish friendship in Győr on 24 March 2006. The two oak trees, which hold their roots together, refer to the endowment of Lajos Kossuth's comrade and friend Stanisław Worcell:.Hungary and Poland are two eternal oaks that have grown a separate strain, but their roots run far underground, are connected and invisibly interlinked. Therefore, the existence and strength of one is a condition for the life and health of another. Even there, on the day of the inauguration, the Győr Declaration was born, on the basis of which the Hungarian Parliament and Seym have declared 23 March to be the day of Hungarian-Polish friendship from 2007 in view of the many centuries of common history, the friendship and cooperation of the two peoples. Since then, we have been celebrating this day annually in the two countries, together with the presidents, the brothers and sisters and friends. Dear Parliament, The community of the life fate, geographical situation and decisive political problems of the Hungarian and Polish nations necessarily led to the friendly interaction of the two nations and to the analog development of their history - wrote Bálint Homan in 1936. The Hungarian-Polish connections go back to the Middle Ages, the Árpáds and the Piasts were connected by dynastic connections. As an example, it is enough to mention the marriage of V. Boleslav and St. Kinga. Annex XIV is replaced by the following: By the time of King Louis the Great in the century, the two countries were joined together by a Persian union, whose younger daughter, St. Hedvig, became the patron saint of Poland. The Poles still count the Transylvanian prince István Báthory among their greatest rulers, who sat on the Polish throne between 1575 and 1586. ANNEX II Ferenc Rákóczi started his freedom fight from Polish soil. The Hungarians' father Bem, the prominent general of the 1848-49 freedom fight and revolution, was also a Polish freedom hero. We have been celebrating Petőfi's day together with our Polish brothers for many years. å I welcome our friends from Poland from the bottom of my heart. It is important that, as in 48, they are here with us today. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said a few days before the National Museum.In 1920, two months after the Trianon disgrace, Hungary helped the Poles against Lenin's red army with a shipment of 22 million bullets manufactured in Weiss Manfréd Artworks in Csepel, and when the II. In World War II, Hitler invaded Poland, Hungary hosted thousands of Polish refugees. Remembering the latter, we shared a memory with József Antall and Henryk Sławik Sr. The uprising in Poznań in Poland in 1956, the Polish freedom struggle, became an example of the Hungarian revolution. The two young people who were murdered by the Communists, Romek Strzałkowski and Péter Mansfeld, became common martyrs of the era. Polish President Andrzej Duda pointed out that immediately after the outbreak of the revolution the Poles started to collect blood for the Hungarians, and today they are still very proud that Polish blood is also symbolically flowing in the veins of the grandchildren of the heroes of 56. This will seal the friendship of the two peoples. During the change of regime, the Solidarity movement, Fathers Karol Wojtyla and Jerzy Popieluszko, served as examples of the Hungarian opposition forces. Dear Parliament, Donald Tusk's election as President of the European Council in the President's Office of the Republic of Poland was assessed as follows:, Poland and Hungary sometimes differ at the level of daily politics, however, in long-term cooperation, the two countries maintain close friendships, and in Europe there is a common interest. Orbán said: "For Hungary, this decision was about Europe, about the functioning of Europe, and not about one Member State or another. This decision does not affect the Polish-Hungarian alliance; we continue to stand firm in favour of Poland in all cases of unfair attacks against Poland. Regardless of the current personal decision, Poland can always count on Hungary's solidarity. Our appreciation for the Poles and our friendly feelings for President Kaczyński remain unchanged. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear fellow Members, The roots of the two oak trees continue to feed the thousand - year - old brotherhood of the two peoples and protect the vitality of the two nations. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-21-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-21-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Hungary and Poland are not only allies in NATO, they are not only allies in the EU, but there is a much stronger bond between the two countries, the two nations, over the last thousand years. We cooperate not only in the cooperation of the Visegrád Four, but also on an even older and even more emotional basis the cooperation between Poland and Hungary, between the Polish people and the Hungarian people, the Polish nation and the Hungarian nation. When we are in Poland, we may find that our Polish friends are taking this even harder and taking it even more seriously. But I think that the meeting of the two Presidents of the Republic, the regular celebrations at the statue of the Bem, commemorations, and mutual visits to and from both countries will strengthen this bond. It was also very important for Hungary, and it was also in solidarity when the Polish soldiers together defended Europe's borders at the Hungarian southern border. It was very important for us that they were involved in the plan, the work that we are doing to protect Europe, the European identity, and the European legitimacy against the recent migration. [[9.40]] It was also important to remember József Antall Senior and Henryk Sławik together in this Parliament and in the Polish seism. It was also important when 2016 was declared a year of Polish-Hungarian solidarity here in the Parliament in February 2016. In parallel, the Hungarian Cultural Season in Poland started in May 2016 and lasts until the end of this year, until the end of 2017. Hundreds of programs presenting Hungarian culture and Hungarian history are implemented in Poland in 20 months. This is much bigger than what was in 1998 18 years ago, because Hungary was able to present Hungarian culture with a four-month series, and we can now do this for 20 months. The Hungarian cultural season began with the Warsaw International Cultural Book Fair. Here Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, represented Hungary at the inauguration ceremony, and President János Áder took the co-presidentship of this event. The events continued and continued. The exhibition entitled "The Golden Age of Hungarian Painting" was opened last October 20th in the National Museum of Krakow, organized by the Main Consulate in Krakow, presenting works between 1836 and 1936. Also in Krakow at the beginning of November were two tram lines, both tram lines dressed in 1956 ornaments. This also commemorated the Hungarian revolution and the solidarity of the Krakows with the Hungarian revolution. The Hungarian National Philharmonic has performed in several Polish cities, and Gyula Csics's 1956 children's diary has been translated into Polish, from which details could be heard at the commemoration of 56 on 23 October, and what is important is that from the child's point of view it can be read in Polish as well as in Polish. On 21 October, the Hungarian National Theatre, Ilona Tóth, was presented in Warsaw, which could later be seen here in Budapest in the National Theatre, but the presentation took place in Warsaw next to the welcome of Minister László Trócsányi. On September 2, the exhibition of Hungarian sports photos opened in Warsaw in 1956, the main theme of this is the Melbourne Olympics, but all other pictures can be found. On the 23rd, not only the Warsaw Cultural Palace, but also the Katowice and Krakow Sports Hall, dressed in red and white-green Hungarian national colors, the Hungarian flag floated in the main square of Wrozcłav for two weeks in the days of the revolution. These events have already taken place, but in 2017 we have a number of other events ahead of us. In April, game and animation films will be screened in Warsaw and Krakow, either by the Berlinalen winning film about the body and soul, or by the son of Oscar-winning Saul, or even by the digitalized and Polish-speaking Catcatcher will be screened in Warsaw and Krakow in April this year. In May, a Hungarian folk cultural exhibition will be opened in the Warsaw ethnographic museum, and in June a exhibition, which was presented last year in the Budapest Historical Museum, will be held in the city museum in Krakow, on the joint road - Budapest and Krakow in the Middle Ages. In June, there will be a street ball in Warsaw with the title "Hungarian cavalcade" with art fairs, folk music programs, dance houses, film screenings, gastronomic shows, wine tastings, Hungarian contemporary music, and the State People's Ensemble will tour in five Polish cities. In the autumn there will be an exhibition in the Royal Castle of Warsaw, which will also be a kind of closing event. There will also be an exhibition of contemporary photography. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And we hope that after the 1960s a renewed dictionary couple will be created, the Hungarian-Polish dictionary. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-21-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, from the Jobbik Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech: I hope that Hungary no longer has a red star phobia 27 years after the change of regime. It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Notary, Congressman.
u2017-03-21-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I dare hope they do not assume that I gave this title to my speech before the agenda as my own thought. [[Interview from Fidesz: We didn't suppose.]] I didn't say all this, but the president of the democratic and ten-year-old Hungarian Socialist Party said a few days ago that he hoped that, 27 years after the change of regime, Hungary no longer had a red star phobia. Of course there is. But this argument was also made yesterday by Mr Sándor Burány in the debate on lex Heineken. He also said that no one has to fear this symbol in Hungary today, and immediately afterwards, Mr Barándy said that they are measuring the same standards, measuring the victims of dictatorship with the same standards. I can tell you that's not true. There's an angle out of the bag in yesterday's debate. You, my fellow socialists, can talk here about the European Court of Justice, trade mark issues and all that, but in fact, in this case, you were defending the red star. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] In this case, you were defending the symbol of this vile murderous idea. This is what they did in yesterday's debate, even when they left it unspoken and without saying a word, so that your party partner, Sophia Havas, on Russian state television, would be free to abuse the heroes of the 1956 Revolution and the memory of the revolution. You defend this vile and murderous idea even when you're busy with XIII. in the district, how they can save the statue of György Lukács, which, on the basis of Jobbik's proposal, was otherwise condemned by the General Assembly of the Capital; and you are trying to figure out how to save this statue, that of György Lukács, who, by the way, in 1919 ordered the execution of eight people in person during the Council republic. It is the 21st of March, by the way, my fellow Members. 21 March is the anniversary of the establishment of the Hungarian Council republic. This was the first communist dictatorship in Hungary. From then on, anyone who struggled to become communism in Hungary in the 20s and 30s could no longer say that he was fighting for a better world, everyone had to know what this system meant, but unfortunately this date was not included enough in Hungarian public awareness and Hungarian education. However, you may remember this in secret to this day, of course. But let's also talk about the ruling parties, because you have plenty of stability in this matter, and you have plenty to account for in the face of the past. Minister János Lázár, who was a member of the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party, we know that until 89 he swore to prevent the freedom and self-determination of Hungarians. This affects about half the government, including the current one and the previous Fidesz-KDNP government. Although there are more former communists in your benches than there are in the MSZP, let's say we already know. It is worth paying attention to this because, although Minister, we know that in matters of such gravity, János Lázár is never so casual or careless. We wonder if there will be any continuation or consequences of this sentence. For the time being, it seems that he is not, although he is speaking, and it should be mentioned that at the request of Gábor Vona last week Prime Minister Viktor Orbán was not able to say a very simple sentence here in front of the public of the country: I was not an agent, I did not report on anyone orally and in writing. Fidesz-KDNP, therefore, remains indebted to the past as a Christian and national civilian government. Only half-solutions remain on this subject at the most. Such a half-solution was also in lex Heineken, and even from this half-solution, as we have just heard, was being cut off, as we have heard, because there was practically only one company to be punished there, and even though Congressman Vejkey said that this symbol was unacceptable to KDNP, it was virtually possible that about everyone would have been exonerated because you were not really wrong here with the red star and using the symbol of this idea. The same half-solution was when a law was passed on the renaming of public spaces and public institutions. Here in Parliament, Bence Rétvári recently defended the Rajk László College for my question. László Rajk can still be named after a professional college. But it was you, Secretary of State, who comes in here every year around November 4th in a Mansfeld Péter T-shirt. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: October 23rd, but whatever.]] By the way, nothing has been done to hold the few murderers of 56 living today accountable and to exclude them from today's Hungarian public life. The National Remembrance Committee was also a semi-solution. If you really want to face the dictatorship and the past, and if you have referred so much to the Polish example, both our pro-government fellow Members, then you will accept Jobbik's proposal, presented to my fellow Members Szilágyi and Mirkóczki about the publicity of the state security past, the establishment of a National Memory Institute, which can also play the role of an exploratory, investigative and incriminating authority. Then accept this proposal. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Let communism finally end in Hungary, let all its remnants be lost! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-21-18	Thank you very much. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, Have a seat. A little quiet, please. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond to what has been said. [[9.50]]
u2017-03-21-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I do not know how long such speeches will continue from Jobbik's ranks, how long the party president will allow them to make similar speeches, because now, when he signs new initiatives for Jobbik's order, week after week with the Hungarian Socialist Party, when he votes with him against the amendment of the basic law banning the compulsory resettlement quota, and while they came here in 2010 without ever doing anything together with the socialists, there is now almost no week when there is no joint signing of the Socialist Group leader or the Group leader of Jobbik on a joint initiative. This, I see, will be held for a speech or two, this kind of anti-communist line, and then - after working together at the local level in the candidacy and speaking here and communicating with the representatives of the MSZP [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What hunting house?]] - go to the constituencies. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] And they agree with each other that Szentendre and others will appoint a candidate, not a candidate. [[Adam Mirkóczki: You're lying in the morning!]] Based on electoral mathematics, how and how it can be jumbled in the next elections, that here in Parliament I tell you that you are an old communist, and then in the constituency I say that here, my dear friend, you go, and in the other district I go - this kind of duplicity will be seen by voters after a while, and after a while the shroud of this technical cooperation or background cooperation will certainly come down. However, Jobbik did not support the sections of the Fundamental Law - as well as the entire Fundamental Law, although it was at least here in the debate - which declared the communist regime, the communist organisations, to criminal organizations whose purpose was the repression of Hungary and the robbery of Hungary. Nor was it supported when the historical continuity of the Fundamental Law was interrupted by the period when Hungary was under Nazi German or Soviet communist occupation. But at the same time, it is important for us pro-government forces to take action at European level against the double standard which condemns certain dictatorships and treats them at their local value and commemorates the victims and does not remember the victims of other dictatorships, and does not consider their victims to be as important and considers the crimes and crimes committed there to be less illegal than they did during the national socialist dictatorship. This is our important task for us Hungarians and all other Central European countries. This is why Hungary's name is attached to the fact that, in the first half of 2011, when Hungary was the President-in-Office of the European Union, the 23rd of August was declared a Polish-Hungarian-Litvan joint initiative, the anniversary of the signing of the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact, for the first time, a European memorial day that commemorates the victims of the communist dictatorship. The breakthrough, the first such occasion, took place within the European Union until the Hungarian EU Presidency, when the victims of the Eastern countries during the Soviet dictatorship were described as European violations, and it is also a day of remembrance, as are many other Western European rapes. But it was important to compensate both the financial and moral compensation of the victims of the communist dictatorship in Hungary and within the country, and information compensation was important, so that from 2014 the observers could have access to the state security documents relating to them in a much broader form. It was also important to publish lists, which, unfortunately, will continue to expand, which were researched and published by the Committee of National Remembrance set up by this Parliament, where the dictatorship operators, the beneficiaries of dictatorship, were first focused on those who enjoyed the benefits of the repression that made all Hungarians equal in disenfranchised rights. It was an important decision of the government in the summer of 2013 that the kind of compensation pension increase, which was carried away by the displaced, the interned, the 56 convicts, the public safety detention, the Soviet forced labour, the military service, and the pension allowance for those receiving the replacement. And it was also an important decision that, in the Gulág Memorial Year and the 56 commemorative year, pension allowances, pension supplements were doubled by two paces, by 60 percent this year, and by 40 percent next year - and by 100 percent overall - by the government, thus estimating people who had to suffer punishment without any crime. But it was equally important to withdraw the communist pension replacements, so for reasons of lack of merit we withdrew the awards from those who were involved in the repression of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence, or in retaliations, who were secret service workers between 48 and 90, or during that period were state leaders, the Hungarian Communist Party, the Hungarian Workers' Party, the MSZMP or the KISZ. Thank you very much. [[Zoltán Pride: Bravo! A raise for Bence! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-21-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. [[Noise. It's ringing.]] Coming up next to the International Satellite Telecommunications Organization T/14238 on the publication of the relevant agreement and amendment Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/14238. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 164 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Annex 7 to the International Health Regulations of the World Health Organisation follows in Geneva on 24 May 2014, World Health Organization 67. T/14240 on the announcement of its amendment to the General Assembly Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/14240 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 168 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. The 1997 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment follows. T/13849 amending Act T/13849 concerning the extension of the simple notification to the non-commercial construction of residential immovable property of more than 300 square metres Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13849/9. T/13849/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments No 3 and 4 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 23 votes in favour, 112 against and 33 abstentions. Amendment 4 is proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 23 votes in favour, 109 against and 34 abstentions. [[10.00]] As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/13849/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 133 votes to 30, with four abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13849/11. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 110 votes in favour, 57 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, In line with the 2016 LXVIII on excise duty. T/14245 amending Act No. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/14245/7. T/14245/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Sándor Burány. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The MSZP Group proposed that Amendment 3 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Sándor Burány. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 111 against and 4 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/14245/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 130 votes in favour, 32 against and 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/14245/10. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 132 votes in favour, 32 against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday the Parliament has already negotiated this. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles called the Seventh Amendment to the Fundamental Law of Hungary by Gábor Vona, Jobbik and colleagues to protect public funds, T/13838. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 51 votes in favour, 113 votes against and no abstentions. [[In the notary seat Dr. István Tiba will be replaced by László Földi.]] Dear Parliament, The election of two members of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank follows. Allow me to extend my compliments to Dr. Parragh Bianka and her family. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Parragh Bianka, seated in the decorative box, is standing up to thank you for your applause.]] and Dr. György Kocziszky and his family. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. György Kocziszky, who sits in the decorative box, thankes for the applause.]] The Economic Committee preparing for the election of the members of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank has listened to the candidates, and, acting under the authority of the Hungarian National Bank Act, Dr. Parragh Bianka and Dr. György Kocziszky propose that the members of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank be elected. The proposal submitted by the President was submitted by S/14480. You can get to know him on the website. Dear Parliament, Members of the Monetary Council shall be elected by Parliament to six years by the vote of the majority of the Members of Parliament present. The Parliament shall decide on the proposal for a resolution without debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he will elect Mrs Parragh Bianka as a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Mrs Parragh Bianka to the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank by 110 votes in favour, 35 against and 21 abstentions. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Parragh Bianka stands up to thank you for your applause.]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he will elect Mr. György Kocziszky as a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Mr. György Kocziszky with 110 votes in favour, 35 against and 21 abstentions to the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. György Kocziszky is standing up to thank you for your applause.]] Dear Parliament, Now, the solemn oath and the signature of the oaths. I ask Dr. Parragh Bianka and Dr. György Kocziszky to come to the centre of the Chamber and take their oath. [[Dr. Parragh Bianka and Dr. György Kocziszky step into the center of the room.]] I would ask Mr László Földi to read the text of the oath, and the Honourable Parliament, standing up, will listen to the oath text according to our custom. [[The people in this room stand up. László Földi reads the words of the oath.]]
u2017-03-21-21	I, Dr. Parragh Bianka/Dr. György Kocziszky I pledge to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; I exercise my position as a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-21-22	Dear Parliament, I ask Mr. István Tiba to prepare the oath papers for signature, and I ask Dr. Parragh Bianka and Dr. György Kocziszky to sign the oath documents. [[It's happening. Dr. István Tiba, who signed the oath document, congratulates the two elected members of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank and gives a copy of the signed oath document.]] Dear Parliament, Congratulations on the election of the members of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank on behalf of the Parliament and myself, and we wish you success in the performance of your work! [[10.10]] Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] With all due respect to my fellow Members who do not continue their work in this Chamber, leave the Chamber. [[Noise. It's ringing. Dr. Zsolt Legány: The Fidesz MEPs...]] With all due respect to the government representatives, those who are about to leave are to leave the Chamber. [[Noise. Zoltán Lukács: Tóni will discuss his tax returns.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Coming up on the European Union mission to train Somali security forces a report on a further Hungarian military contribution and a joint general debate on the proposal for a decision on its adoption until closure. [[Noise. It's ringing.]] [[Noise. It's ringing.]] Government referral B/13683. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Defence and Police Committee, H/14285. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. (Noise. - It's ringing. ) Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, the rapporteur of the report, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-21-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, The report before us concerns the extension of government authorisation for a military mission that has been in existence for several years, i.e. public law, so it is not unknown to this House. The launch of the EU mission to train Somali security forces was decided by the Council of the European Union on 3 February 2010 and the European Union mission contributes to basic training by the Ugandan army with modular training in areas where Somalis are unable to provide it. The Hungarian Defence Forces have been participating in this operation since 2010. The first public licence was issued in 2010. CHAPTER III The Government's decision was granted on the 24th of October. In the period since then, according to the Government's decision, the mandate was always adapted to the current mandate of the European Union, which was last extended by the Council on 12 December 2016 until 31 December 2018. Thus, the Council's recent decision required the adoption of a new government decision, given that Hungarian engagement in the mission was previously authorised by the Hungarian Government until 31 December 2016. In recent years, 4 main soldiers participated in the mission, and accordingly the defence portfolio intends to maintain the level of ambition of the previous Hungarian engagement in the operation, i.e. the holding of a quota operation of up to 20 persons during the conversion period of up to 10 persons until the new mandate adopted by the Council. This is, of course, the number of frames, i.e. the upper limit, there is no obligation to fill it, no commitment. Somalia's security situation, which, thanks to its international military presence, has slightly improved in recent years in the capital city of Mogadishu, is still not reassuring. Dear House, In view of the decision of the European Union and in view of the provisions of the Fundamental Law, Hungarian military participation in the mission requires prior authorisation from the government, the Government decides on the application of the Hungarian Defence Forces based on the decision of the European Union or the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, as well as on other team movements. As stated in the government programme, our country supports the completion of the European Union's common foreign and security policy and is actively involved in the European Union's crisis management operations. The Hungarian military participation in the EUTM Somalia mission is in line with these efforts. Ladies and gentlemen, The government intends to maintain the level of ambition of the previous Hungarian engagement in the operation until the new mandate. On the basis of the above, the Government is responsible for the further Hungarian military contribution to the European Union mission to train Somali security forces. In Government Resolution No. 20 members of the Hungarian Defence Forces in the operational territory of Somalia have once again agreed to carry out the mission's tasks until 31 December 2018 for a maximum of 10 persons in the transition period. I would ask my fellow Members to discuss and accept the presentation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-21-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur for the Defence and Police Committee, rapporteur for the proposal for a decision, within a 30-minute time frame. [[10.20]]
u2017-03-21-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Under Article 47 of the Fundamental Law, the Government decides on the application of the Hungarian Defence Forces based on the decisions of the European Union or the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, which the Government reports to Parliament. At its meeting on 1 March 2017, the National Assembly's Defence and Police Committee discussed and accepted the report on the further military contribution to the European Union mission to train Somali security forces. The Defence and Police Committee has submitted to this House a proposal for a parliamentary resolution on the adoption of the report as regards what has been said. Please support the proposal for a resolution. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-21-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the speech will be held by the lead speaker in a 30-30-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to the candidate, Mr Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-03-21-27	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, We consider the international engagement of the defence to be one of the fundamental tools for implementing Hungarian foreign policy. The participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international missions clearly strengthens Hungary's positions both in NATO and in the European Union. It is also not negligible that experience and knowledge gained in international peace operations are also essential for the protection of our country. Our country wants to be actively involved in the implementation of the European Union's common foreign and security policy. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is committed to creating international peace and stability. Like all democratic states, we have a responsibility to fight international threats and to contribute to the activities of international alliances. The Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association supports the adoption of the Ministry of Defence's report and its participation in the mission. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-21-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the MSZP Group, I see Attila Mesterházy has come forward. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-21-29	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said many times before, we are discussing in this House an extension of a mission that is a successful mission, indeed, as my fellow Member Vas said, contributes to the good news of Hungary, contributes to the preparation of soldiers, and, as I see it, there has been a cross-government agreement between the various governments for years that it makes sense to participate in such international missions. In February 2010, the Council of the European Union decided to launch a European Union mission to train Somali security forces. After that, the then Bajnai government decided on the Hungarian contribution in a government decision, whereby four members of the Hungarian Defence Forces were deported to Uganda. This was between March 2010 and June 2011. As decided by the European Union, the Government has extended the mission several times and has in the meantime increased the number to ten. On 12 December 2016, the Council of the European Union decided to extend the mission for another two years and the Government is also in favour. So we, for our part, support the government's proposal to extend the European Union mission in Somalia and its Hungarian military involvement until 31 December 2018. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-03-21-30	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Firtl Mátyás, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-03-21-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is committed to maintaining and maintaining international peace and security. Strengthening international mechanisms for preventing crises and dealing with conflicts is essential for the security of Hungary, but also for the security of Hungary. It is therefore in Hungary's interest and intention to play an active role in global and regional organisations that are part of the international safety architecture. The further Hungarian military contribution to the European Union mission to train Somali security forces corresponds fully to these efforts. The EUTM Somalia mission, as decided by the Council of the European Union, serves as a training and non-fighting operation for the training of Somali security forces in Somalia or in the interests of Somalia in the neighbouring countries. The operation of the mission has been considered necessary by the EU since 2010, and the extension of its mandate has been approved by the Council several times since then. In a decision, the government contributed to the Hungarian military contribution to the Somali mission, to the service of the forces of training, in the ties of international forces, from the Hungarian Defence Forces abroad. This is in line with the efforts of our country to support the Union's common security and defence policy and to take its part in EU crisis management operations. The report on Hungarian military participation shall be adopted by the Parliament by decision. B/13683. The obligation set out in the Fundamental Law is fulfilled after the Government has accepted the additional Hungarian military contribution to the European Union mission to train Somali security forces 1755/2016 by submitting a report, which was also adopted by the Defence and Police Committee. Government decision to extend Hungarian military participation until 31 December 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, Missions play an important role in the life of the defence. On the one hand, they offer an important opportunity for our countrymen; the tasks carried out in multi-national relations, the operations carried out in sharp conditions, the daily use of state-of-the-art technology - all of this is extremely important in the area of professional experience. On the other hand, it also increases our defence capabilities. Thirdly, they provide an important tool in the hands of Hungarian diplomacy at all times to preserve and expand our international room for manoeuvre. Fourthly, they also reduce and reduce our vulnerability, as any war conflict - be it at any point on the Earth - is a risk factor for our country, as demonstrated by the current European migrant crisis, which is also taking place at our borders. The role played by the international community in stabilising international crisis zones is extremely important. Hungary, as a member of this community, takes its share of these efforts in proportion. The Hungarian Defence Agency's task as defined in the Hungarian Defence Act is to carry out other military obligations arising from the federal and international treaty, in particular collective defence, peacekeeping and humanitarian tasks, and to contribute to the military tasks of fighting international terrorism with designated and prepared forces. Ladies and gentlemen, Please allow me also to use this opportunity to thank the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces here in this House, who have done their fair job in foreign missions and who deserve recognition, respect and rank in Hungary's defence and our country. It is a thank-you to all Hungarian soldiers who, during a military mission in the crisis zones or with military and humanitarian assistance, are exemplary, who promote the recognition and rank of Hungary and the Hungarian Defence Forces by contributing to the creation and strengthening of security. At the same time, allow me to thank all those who serve at the borders of the country, to ensure the peace and security of all of us, our homes, in dealing with the mass migration situation. Dear House, In Hungary, defence is a national matter, the pillars of which are national self-esteem and allied cooperation. [[10.30]] National cooperation to strengthen defence is achieved through federal cooperation, international mandate and consensus decision in international missions. This increases and strengthens Hungary's security, foreign policy mobility and ability to assert its interests. Active Hungarian engagement in crisis management and peacekeeping serves the security of our country and the Hungarian people. Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party therefore supports and recommends that the report and the resolution proposal be adopted. Thank you for your attention and allow me once again to thank the military for their involvement and for its performance. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-21-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Kulcsár, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-03-21-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would briefly describe Jobbik's position on the European Union mission to train Somali security forces. The first word is thanks to me, too. Thanks to the Hungarian soldiers who stood far from home on this mission. However, I think that Hungary's mission activities should be reviewed, since Jobbik recognises that there are useful, forward-looking missions, but there are also unnecessary, particularly risky, foreign missions representing foreign interests. For example, previously the Sinai Peninsula, or the latter, is one of the Iraqis. In relation to Somalia, we would like to see a more detailed account of how effective our soldiers worked away from home, how many locals have been trained and what tasks. Does the entire mission serve the Hungarian national interests at all? After all, we do not know how the people trained by the Hungarian officers were selected. If it is aimed at and we are present to reduce migration, it is commendable, but this is not apparent from the report. It has not been established whether the Somalis trained there are those who have turned against the allies, against the European allies, or who may have ended up in Europe as migrants. We cannot find any data on this, so Jobbik's faction will remain in the vote. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-03-21-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As the LMP Group has not indicated their wish to speak, we have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent Member to apply will now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, within a 15-minute timeframe.
u2017-03-21-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian contribution to the European Union mission to train security forces in Somalia, I think, is extremely important. Here I have been mentioned by several people that this mission has been going on since 2010, and unfortunately, the security conditions show that there is a need for this mission to continue, including the Hungarian engagement, which I consider very commendable and, of course, to be supported. Just as it is very important for Hungary to make an active contribution to the common foreign and security policy of the European Union. However, I would like to draw attention here to the fact that both the decisions taken within the European Union and the implementation of them, aimed at maintaining and creating security, and the implementation of NATO's decisions with a similar orientation and purpose, depend greatly on the state of the Member States' forces. My fellow Members must have gotten used to hearing the reports every year when we talk about these missions, and the Parliament decides to continue these, and I will also try to mention that it is extremely important to talk about the situation of the Hungarian Defence Forces and about the direction of development, what measures would be needed to improve the current situation, otherwise rather dramatic. Allow me, first of all, to begin by thanking Hungarian soldiers and defence workers for their dedication to their work and, of course, to all our soldiers serving on missions. It is clear that the Hungarian Defence Office is still operational, I think, because the members of the staff are so dedicated to their daily work and, of course, to ensuring the safety of our country. Allow me to draw attention to a few things that have happened since 2010 in the field of Hungarian defence. 200 billion HUF was withdrawn from the Hungarian Defence Agency, which is a total annual budget. This is a situation in which the military has never been overfunded, and unfortunately, we have seen the dramatic effects of this in recent years. The Hungarian Defence Office's budget has never been below 1 percent of GDP since the change of regime, unfortunately this is the case for many years now.In 2016, the government decided to start raising the defence budget by 0.1 percent of GDP annually, but unfortunately we have to say that although this increase is a good one, it must be acknowledged, but unfortunately this amount is still not enough to offset the depreciation that takes place year after year due to the deterioration of the ageing technical instruments and the situation, it can even compensate for this. So there is definitely a need for a bigger increase. At present, the depreciation of technical assets reaches 30 percent, which is a very drastic number. We have seen that the fighting helicopter capability has unfortunately ceased, and there are several other capabilities on the verge of extinction, such as rigid wing transport, as well as the issue of rotating wing transport helicopters. I very much hope that the government will make a decision on this matter in a very short time. However, it should be pointed out that it was not unexpected that the operating hours would expire on these technical devices, since it was many years ago that it was known exactly when this would happen. In addition, unfortunately, the Hungarian Defence Agency's shortage of staff has increased to around 6,000 people, which mainly concerns the contracted crew, but a lot of people are also missing from the professional staff, and often there is a lack of specific knowledge, which I think would be necessary in any way. It is clear that not only in terms of the air force, as I have just mentioned concrete examples from there, but unfortunately also in the case of the land forces, we can talk about a very serious depreciation of technical means. I would like to mention quickly here the daily working conditions of the soldiers, such as the issue of clothing checkbooks, because they do not get the amount from which they could provide training clothes and other clothing, but they cannot cash this in the clothing store, because it is not loaded. Here again, I would ask the Secretary of State to take action on this matter, there are neither training clothes nor boots in clothing stores. In addition, there is a need for a very urgent modernisation of individual equipment, and I would like to point out here that I am not just talking about the special-purpose regiment. They really do carry out an extremely important task, I think, in terms of mission, too, in the 21st century. However, it is clear that there is an urgent need to develop individual equipment for the rest of the stock and for other troops. In recent years, it has appeared that a very unpredictable legal environment has developed, and unfortunately both the government and the decision-makers have a huge responsibility. Since 2012, the Law on the Status of Patrons has been amended on an innumerable basis. We are talking about a system, we are talking about a stock that does need the predictability of the legal environment, not an amendment every two months to the legislation that affects them and which is most restrictive. I have to mention that the pensioner status of service pensioners has been abolished by the government in an unacceptable manner and has been reduced by 15 percent, so they are now entitled to a service allowance, which, I think, is very unfair to those who have served several decades in the Hungarian Defence Service. I would also like to bring here the matter of the Honvéd Health Fund, since over 27 thousand soldiers, defense workers, law enforcement and national security workers have lost their savings for health protection purposes. It is true, after a long struggle of one and a half years, but their compensation has started, but here I would note that it is only and exclusively for the active stock. As far as the Hungarian Defence Service is concerned, I understand that there is a way that if someone takes on a one-day volunteer reserve service, they can receive this compensation, but I do not think that this should be subject to any conditions. [[10.40]] Those who have been retired for decades have to get this money back, because they acted in good faith, they cannot help what happened to the Buda-Cash Broker house. In the light of the fact that I ask for this round to be extended, everyone will also receive compensation for the defence wallet, since at the end of the last year HUF 2.6 billion of the remains of the defence wallet were withdrawn from the chapter so that the Ministry could have requested that this amount could continue to be used for defence. This did not happen, and these victims could have been paid or paid in bulk. The question of the reserve system: I understand that a new concept has been developed, although we can still know exactly the details of this, but it has been stated in several statements that the government would like to create 20,000 reserveers, such a reserve system. I think that as long as there is a shortage of 6,000 people in the workforce, this is not feasible and should not be implemented, it will take huge resources. I would just like to point out that 20,000 volunteers cannot replace the professional knowledge of those 6,000 people, so if the government does this, it will lead to loss of ability. The circumstances of the border workers seem to be improving gradually, although unfortunately very slowly; obviously, further improvement is still needed. But here again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Hungarian Defence Office does not have police duties, and the protection of the border has always belonged to the Hungarian Defence Forces. Border protection and border surveillance are two different things. In the context of legislative amendments, and also in the context of the crisis caused by mass immigration, I still find it unacceptable that the government abolished the maximum amount of both over-service and over-work. The Hungarian Defence Forces are now working with incredible overload, and obviously the risk of accidents and diseases can be increased. But to say positive, the implementation of the stipend development, I think it is very positive, and I would ask the government to continue to do so in the next year. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that their salary should be increased in any way, as there was a very minimal increase in the area of 16 thousand forints, but this is not even close to the salary of the others. I would also like to highlight as a positive point the exercises, the international practices in which the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces participate; this is obviously done on the basis of the government's decision and the decision of the wallet. This is a very good incentive, by the way, for the government to spend more money on the Hungarian Defence Office; and it is extremely important, as my fellow Member Mátyás Firtl said, that we can improve interoperability, because it is actually in these practices that we find out how soldiers can cooperate and what are still to be improved. What should be done and the most important elements for the future? On the one hand, the recognition of discretion, decision-making responsibility, because we see it, and we all know that this issue is not a voting mode. But it doesn't give anyone the right not to deal with the area properly, it doesn't give the government the right not to devote sufficient resources to development in the field of defence. So it is by any means a decision-making and governmental responsibility and a task to ensure the conditions under which the Hungarian Defence Office can guarantee the security of the country and the security of the alliance. We need to have a worthy debate on these issues. So, the fact that defence is a national matter is not just a matter of defence law 1. § (1) but let us take this seriously, and I still hope that this may be a change from the government. We have been waiting for many, many years for this to happen, but maybe this will happen, because we are talking about an area where both decisions on the budget and developments are decisions across government cycles. Therefore, there is no rush to make either ad hoc decisions or to postpone decisions from one government to another. Therefore, this is why substantive debates would be important, because if there is a decision, it would be useful for several governments to implement it, if it is both professionally sound and in budgetary terms. So that's what we should be trying to do. On the other hand, politics should not at last interfere with professional issues, so yes, the profession is concerned with the profession, and politics defines the frameworks that reflect the tasks of defence. It is also a huge responsibility of policy to ensure the necessary framework for this. This requires a concept, and that, for example, the development of development directions should not be a surprise thing, that we learn from the press, from a few points, what will happen if it does happen, but that this discussion should be returned to Parliament. There is a need for transparency in terms of development, since every single forint for taxpayers, which is intended for security, must be put there. There is a need to modernise the technical means of both land and air forces. The budget must finally reach 2% of GDP, and I would stress here that this is not Donald Trump's new idea, and it is not because of this, or because the Union or anyone or NATO would expect us to do so, but it is our well-conceived national interest, because within a few years it should reach 2 percent of GDP, if we want to preserve the functionality of the Hungarian Defence Force, let alone improve it. So 2026 is a very, very late date. And while we are talking about resources, we need to switch to task-based planning, not from the source side, because the resources are always scarce. The largest force of the Hungarian Defence Forces is its population, and therefore it is necessary to provide them with a competitive income. The upload of the military force must be started as a matter of urgency. This requires the development of a natural environment that gives young people a perspective to join the Hungarian Defence Corps, either as a contract or as a professional soldier. This requires both good training and conditions. A new preferential pension scheme is needed. The current deduction should be abolished and the retirement status of those who were taken away by the government years ago should be restored. In my opinion, it would also be necessary to establish a veteran law and thus separate social security payments for the stocks concerned. Otherwise, this would not only be necessary for the Hungarian Defence Service. We need an appropriate reserve system, which is actually voluntary, but we are not talking about 20,000 people in line with the number of defence personnel, this can be up to 6-8 thousand people; and substantial skills improvements, the development of intelligence and continuous coordination with the profession. So if you want a defence, and I very much hope that everyone sitting here will agree on this, which can meet the 21st century. The challenges of the 20th century, which can properly exploit the excellent skills of our soldiers, do need these improvements, so I would also like to ask Mr Secretary of State to support this, in particular, to adopt the proposals. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-21-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény for two minutes, MSZP.
u2017-03-21-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, After such a comprehensive military analysis or defence analysis, of course, I don't want to take up much of your time, which is why I only applied for a two-minute speech. On behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party, and of course on behalf of myself, I would also like to express our appreciation, appreciation and respect for the soldiers, soldiers, soldiers and, of course, who have been involved in this military mission and have so far been involved in this military mission, and, of course, for the other military missions like this. I think we think that these international missions, these military missions, are both increasing and promoting Hungary's international image and reputation, so once again I just wanted to convey the voice of thanks. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-03-21-38	Thank you very much, Congressman Crew. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács. [[10.50]]
u2017-03-21-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, In every parliament in the world, there are only extensive proposals, brief proposals, large-scale proposals and smaller-scale proposals, but they are usually not adapted to the scope. There may also be very short submissions that are of great importance, and it must be admitted that I have met a number of people who have discussed a proposal, which has been spoken out of substance, for a long time. What we are talking about here, Mr House, is, in my view, that it is well worth dealing with, because it has already been dealt with by my honourable fellow Member on the part of the KDNP. In particular, what is the international outlook on this, what is particularly beneficial and necessary for Hungary, and what is the reason why we should continue to carry out these military actions in the future? Dear House, I was one of them myself, and I must be honest with you that I had previously been in a position for quite a long time that Hungary had never been involved in any colonialization, and therefore any incident in the colonies, any war and dangerous situation that might justify the intervention, does not concern us. And then I had to realize, a long time ago, I had to realize that these relationships in the world weren't like that anymore. Far from it. Today, an action starting in the world that starts from somewhere very far away is just here in the Carpathian Basin and arrives at our borders. So when we are talking about a mission - and it would be good to strengthen and raise awareness in the public opinion - we are also talking about the protection of borders. And that is a fundamental question. These issues cannot be dealt with professionally, this is a matter of national policy. Hungary can make mistakes with a bad mission, but it can carry out very, very good actions if it strengthens the alliance. It is quite clear that the protection of our borders has come to the fore. Today, there is no reason to think that, in the coming times, our borders will be in no danger. On the contrary, we must be convinced that these dangers will be strengthened in the coming times. And it must also be made clear that if we live in a place where we have our country, which is directly adjacent to the Balkans, then these fires will reach our borders, and this protection must be guaranteed. The effort that the government has made over the past period, which meant securing the border, has so far been effective, and I hope it will be in the long term. But to protect these borders, it's only possible to protect them in conjunction with the federal system and within the federal system. That is why I believe that it is necessary to raise awareness, far and wide, that any action, whether four soldiers, five soldiers or fifteen soldiers, is involved in this, but if it is involved in an action that connects us to such a wider and stronger alliance, which is vital to us, it will also protect our borders. Consequently, a negotiation has now taken place in this House, in the case at hand, which, when very large and broad support appears to be behind the government's action, should be used to put the widest possible national support behind any such action. This is what can secure our borders, protect and give Hungary peace in the long term. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-21-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2017-03-21-41	The words of Béla Turi-Kovács inspired me to speak. I think that it raised a very important question, because today we see political aspirations, foreign policy aspirations on the part of the United States, which also means a new paradigm, the very approach that I think my fellow Member rightly spoke about, that the protection of borders or the protection of the interests of a country does not cease at borders, while, of course, encountering social doubt or reluctance as to why we should participate in any mission, whether in Somalia or elsewhere, how this serves Hungary's national interests, how this poses a national security or security risk to us if, thousands of miles from Hungary, any such act, peacekeeping or even any other act, training, Hungarian soldiers are involved. Many today welcome the words of the President of the United States, who says that the United States does not want to continue to be the world's frivolous, as they usually say, does not want to intervene in many places, but rather wants to deal with the problems within the borders, quoting their own words. I think that this can be a logical reflection and consideration at first, but I think that the European Union will also be in serious trouble if the United States, so to speak, loses interest in the different conflicts in the world and does not try to participate and provide some kind of help. Therefore, I just wanted to confirm what Béla Turi-Kovács has just said, that it must play a role in this, too, for the government, the Ministry of Defence, although thanking God not for these great debates in the Hungarian Parliament, so that this kind of military engagement is surrounded by an internal political, if it should be said so, consensus on the part of the parliamentary parties, but it does make sense to devote time, energy and even resources to Hungarian voters to understand that participation in such a mission is not a waste of taxpayers' money, but it also protects Hungarian national interests very specifically, our Hungarian security interests. And this task must be carried out even if it is always difficult to explain to the voters, and probably not only here in Hungary, but also in other countries of the world. That is what I wanted to add, and thank you very much for this comment.
u2017-03-21-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, No further comments were made and the joint general debate is therefore closed. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, who clearly wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2017-03-21-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the support of the representatives of the factions in which you support this proposal. I also thank you for not missing this time to thank the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces for their standing and service, just as we do every time, because our soldiers are truly performing excellently, not only in Hungary, but also in the missions. And thank you for the opinion, support and agreement of the fact that it is important that the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces participate in these missions, because we often get the question of what Hungarian soldiers are doing away from Hungary, thousands of kilometres away from Hungary. This is their job, which is an excellent service in the countries in which many hundreds of thousands and millions of immigrants come to the borders of Europe and Hungary, of course in various federal systems, NATO, the European Union, the coalition and the United Nations Alliance. So, when soldiers help them to get order in these countries at some point, and the people who live there can find their prosperity and future, we help to keep Europe for the Europeans, Hungary belongs to the Hungarians. I would also like to thank Mrs Márta Demeter for her speech. I think that we are always having a good debate here in Parliament about the Hungarian Defence Forces and, above all, about the future. Now I felt that there were some old and old elements left in his speech. I would like to ask the Member to follow the events, because we are clearly doing something to improve the force. If you look at the last few months, we have handed over cars with SUVs worth billions of forints to soldiers who serve at the border. [[11.00]] We have also found a solution together on the matter of the Honvéd Health Bank, as the congresswoman has often spoken in this case, and her speeches have helped us to find a legal solution, despite the fact that this health fund is only a national defender in its name, and not under the authority and aegis of the Hungarian Defence Office or the Ministry of Defence. It's just as important for us to compensate the soldiers. This work will take place from February 1st, and many soldiers have already received the compensation they deserve. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Of course, all purchases are carried out transparently and transparently, and to the extent that the defence budget is expanding, our financial and financial opportunities are expanding, we are taking action. We've handed over the border defense base again this week, the last one in line, which makes it easier for the soldiers to serve. After all, they can live closer to the place of duty, and they do not go away with leisure, rest with a long journey. We're handing over the scouting and couriers this week. So, with the expansion of the defence budget, which we did in 2016, before Donald Trump was elected president: the increase in GDP of 0.1 percent, and we will continue to do so in the coming years. When we reach 2 percent, of course, it can be calculated, because if it grows by 0.1 percent each year, this is a 10-year period. But if we look at the other countries, all five countries reach 2 percent at the moment, the others are well below it. I think that we have not missed this race, and that 2 percent is also an attainable goal for us. We also considered it important to increase the salary of soldiers this year, and from 1 January it increased by another 5 percent. Over the past year, we have introduced a labour market supplement for crew members, which has been incorporated into their salaries this year. I think it's worth watching the news, the events, every year, every month we move forward. Once again, thank you all for your support, and thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-21-44	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur for the Defence and Police Committee, who also wishes to respond to what has been said. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-21-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary of State has answered a decisive part. I am pleased that the proposal for a resolution has received such great support. So we are asking for support in the final vote as well. Of course, we too thank our soldiers for their support in any situation. Please support the adoption of the proposal for a decision. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-21-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Proposals for amendments to the proposal for a decision may be submitted by 16 a.m. on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft law on the publication of the EU-LAC International Foundation Agreement until its closure. Government referral T/14462. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr László Szabó, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-21-47	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill is to publish the Agreement establishing an international foundation for the EU-LAC, the European Union and the Latin American countries and the Caribbean, hereinafter referred to as "the Agreement'. The purpose of the agreement is to establish an EU-LAC international foundation with the international legal personality and legal capacity necessary for the performance of its tasks, which replaces the EU-LAC temporary foundation which has existed since 2011 and has been established under German law. The EU-LAC Foundation's mission is to implement and support strategic cooperation between the two regions in practice. It was set up by the Member States of the European Union and the Latin American and Caribbean States at their 2010 Madrid Summit; in the same year as the cooperation of our Latin American and Caribbean partner countries was institutionalised as the Community of the Latin American and Caribbean States, Celac, while institutionalising bi-regional cooperation in the form of EU-CELAC summits every two years and EU-CELAC Foreign Ministers' meetings from 2016 onwards. On 25 October 2016, on the margins of the first meeting of foreign ministers, the agreement to be announced in this bill was signed in Santo Domingo, the capital of the Dominican Republic, which held the presidency of CELAC. The EU-LAC Foundation's operation has so far been severely limited by its lack of international legal personality and legal capacity and, therefore, its funding has not reached the desired level. These problems are addressed by the agreement to be published in this bill, which establishes the EU-LAC International Foundation with international legal personality and legal capacity. In the new situation, Hungary is also examining how it can contribute to the functioning of the EU-LAC International Foundation. Dear Parliament, The signing and publication of the agreement is perfectly within the framework of the government's southern opening policy announced in March 2015. By strengthening cooperation between the two regions, cooperation between the EU Member States and the Celac countries will also be strengthened, thus promoting the development of Hungary's relations with the countries of the Latin American region. In view of this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-03-21-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-21-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly remind you of what the current bill is about: further ensuring the legal form of the strategic partnership between Latin America and the Caribbean, i.e. the LAC countries and the European Union. The decisions and formal agreements in principle were already taken by the European Union in 2008 in Lima, in Madrid in 2011. The creation of the EU-LAC International Foundation is now necessary, as Mr Secretary of State has said, because the temporary foundation previously established in Germany under German law will cease its activities and will be dissolved and its role will be taken over by the final foundation with international legal personality and legal capacity to be voted on. The final text of the agreement establishing the Foundation was adopted by the EU Council on 10 October 2016, but Parliament's mandate is required for its entry into force. So this current bill is merely a legal form of our earlier decision, but it is in Hungary's best interests and in its profile, since the opening of the South is part of our program. I would remind my fellow Members that, on the one hand, Hungary can conclude trade contracts of this kind only within the framework of the EU and, on the other hand, we are constantly expanding our representation network in the Latin American region with a view to diversifying our economic relations. In fact, this expansion has a legal background, a framework, i.e. our legislative approval for the establishment of the EU-LAC Foundation. By voting in favour of this formal legal step, we can therefore give way to our direction in foreign policy. I would like your support, thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-03-21-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[11.10]]
u2017-03-21-51	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As usual, the MSZP faction supports the publication of this law, since it is for Hungarian national interests that such a convention should be announced, and indeed this foundation, as my fellow Member Tilki spoke about, can legally continue its activities. Therefore, so much of this may not be worth talking about in Parliament, because we could repeat each other. However, I would like to use this opportunity, as the Foreign Ministry representative is sitting here, to draw the attention of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to what could seriously jeopardise the international image of our country and, therefore, national interest. Just recently, a number of civil society organisations - also foreign, not exclusively domestic NGOs - protested against the measures that the government is planning to introduce, trying to list them in some form, thus a little intimidated by these Hungarian civil society organisations. I think it would be right on the part of the government that it does not interfere with the work of independent civil society organisations, acknowledges that if they make a critical speech, they criticize the government, they may wonder what the content of these criticisms might be, or how justified this criticism is by the various civil society organisations, and not the other way in which the government is now taking these proposals, namely to try to discredit these civil society organisations. So he does not address the content of the criticism in Hungarian, but only deals with trying to disable and discredit these civil society organisations. We believe that this does not increase Hungary's international reputation, nor will it certainly expand the international space of movement in Hungary, as many people are already comparing Hungary with Russia. This is certainly an exaggeration at the moment, but we do not know where this series of measures leads, how far the government intends to go on the basis of its political communication interests, what limits it is willing to cross in order to immunise its own electoral camp in such a way, if I may put it this way, against criticism by civil society organisations. So I would just like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that it is worth withdrawing the proposal that concerns civilians. This would certainly allow more room for manoeuvre or easier operation in foreign policy for Hungarian diplomacy, and not only would it be the criticisms in the next period when it comes to civil society organisations and their scope of movement in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew applauds.]]
u2017-03-21-52	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana. Before the Member begins his speech, I must note that I ask that we remain at the item on the agenda. This applies to Congressman Mesterházy and applies to all our Members. So today we are discussing the EU-LAC issue, not the issue of Hungarian civil society organisations. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-03-21-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to stick to this in the context of the agreement before us, as this convention will replace the temporary foundation that has so far been operating with an organisation aimed at encouraging further mutual understanding and understanding between the contracting partners, strengthening the Celac-EU bi-regional partnership process with increased involvement of civil society. They are trying to achieve this by holding seminars, conferences, finding new forms of contact and launching joint programmes. CELAC is composed of 33 South American and Caribbean countries. On the grounds of the bill, we can also read from the Minister of State and from the rapporteur's exposé that this convention is in line with the policy of the government's southern opening in March 2015. There will also be a need for success here, as the African trading houses have failed badly, the country's external economic results do not show the effect of the trading houses, all the more so because the third set is already trying to serve the interests of the Orbán government in several places. If we look at last year's figures, we can say that on average Hungarian companies were able to increase their global exports by less than 3 percent in euro. In particular, exports to Africa decreased by 10 percent, and the sales of goods to Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, India and Brazil decreased, and less Hungarian goods were sold in the United States as well. The value of exports to these countries was a large sum of EUR 6 billion, so the loss was offset by the increase in exports to Germany, where 25 billion euros of Hungarian goods alone went, by 3.9 percent in 2016. So at present, the share of the Hungarian government's alternative markets is only around 10 percent, adding Eastern and Southern data. On the other hand, we have heard much bigger commitments in the past, but the operation of the trading house, as shown by the example of Africa, has not been achieved at all in the way that promises were made either by the Minister or by the Secretary of State in advance. Therefore, the agreement itself, the publication of the agreement before us, can, of course, be supported by the Jobbik Group, since it can open the way for further cooperation, but we must add that we are still skeptical about the opening of the government's trading house. Even because they did not deliver the expected results in an economic sense, and in many cases even the suspicion of corruption surrounds the operation of the trading houses. Therefore, the Jobbik will continue to pay particular attention to this area. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-03-21-54	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As I do not see any other speakers, there are no independent Members in the Chamber, so two-minute speeches will follow. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény, MSZP fraction. Here you go.
u2017-03-21-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the bill before us, we are talking about an international agreement, the EU-LAC agreement. In this connection, I would like to highlight the importance of the European Union's attempt to act as a global player and act as a global player on the stage of world politics, and how important we consider it to be when we enter into agreements and framework agreements with different regions, even more backward regions, that we believe bring forward these common issues. This EU-LAC Foundation also strengthens cooperation between 28 Member States of the European Union and 33 Member States of the Latin American and Caribbean States. The reason why we think this is particularly important in today's world political situation is because if we can do a very short historical lookout with a few sentences, practically the 19th century. In the first century, Americans developed the principle that America belongs to Americans, and America concentrated only on the American continent. Then this is XX. In the first century, he changed completely, and the United States of America was trying to exert its influence virtually all over the world. Now, my fellow Member Mesterházy has already mentioned this, by the way, perhaps with Trump's Presidency, American foreign policy would go back to inwards. We consider this to be particularly inappropriate, inappropriate, and we think that the European Union should act accordingly, that it should go towards opening up outwards rather than trying to act as a global player in the world as much as possible. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-21-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-21-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask my fellow Members to consider the President's words and to accept them, because it is indeed an international treaty. My fellow Member, Mesterházy, spoke of something completely different. If it is foreign affairs, if it is a civil society organization, then their concern against the Hungarian dictatorship had to be said. And Jobbik was headed towards the trading house, which also has no connection with this bill before us. [[Tibor Bana: South opening!]] Attila Mesterházy is a fellow Member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and my better friend is a member of the Committee on European Affairs. I think you have plenty of opportunity to ask questions at any time on foreign affairs, in matters of interest to you, either to Mr Secretary of State or to Minister. [[11.20]] I do not think that such directions should be taken in relation to such a treaty, although they can obviously do so, but we should listen to what the President has proposed for consideration in order to stay on the subject, to stick to the text of the bill.
u2017-03-21-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-21-59	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, we cannot ask these questions in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, because the last ministerial hearing took place at a joint meeting with the Economic Committee, where the Minister, I think, should have left after an hour and a half, and announced this at the beginning of the Committee meeting, while he was there, I do not know, 20-30 Members who wanted to ask questions about the once-a-year ministerial hearing, and therefore had limited opportunity. There is, in fact, a kind of struggle, rightly, because the opposition representatives and, of course, the pro-governments consider something else to be important in a committee's work. So, after all, my fellow Member accepts that the situation is not so refreshing that at any time any debate could be held with any Secretary of State and Minister in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I also lead the Committee on Budgets, even though I manage it, not even there, because I am also a vice-president there, Mr Tilki. So I think that there is no obligation to tell the story against dictatorship, and I understand Mr President's call, which we will respect, but there is a connection between these two, because on the one hand, the government - so that everyone can understand clearly where these two are connected - argues that civil organisation work is important, and that it is in Hungary's national interest that we work together in a civil organisation framework, in a foundation framework, and that on the other hand, the government makes the same civil organisation work impossible at home. I wanted to draw attention to this contradiction that what should be recognised, supported and supported in foreign policy should also be a goal to be supported in Hungarian internal policy. And regardless, we demand that that other law be revoked, and we support that, as I have just said. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-21-60	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény, MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-03-21-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Taking into account, of course, Mr President's instructions to stay on the subject, I was inspired by my fellow Member Tilki's comment for just one minute. The EU-LAC Foundation shall, first and foremost, list three points, points (a), (b) and (c), but point (c) shall not prevent effective exchanges and create new networking opportunities among civil society and other social actors. It is not my place to defend my fellow Member, Mr Mesterházy, but he has said the same thing that I am about to say in five seconds, Member: the government's rampage towards civil society organisations is at least spicy that he is now in favour of this in an international agreement, in a bill like this before us. Thank you, Mr President, and I hope I have been exemplary brief.
u2017-03-21-62	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana in a two-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2017-03-21-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleague Tilki, It is indeed related to what I have said, the bill before us, because we have just read in the presentation that the declaration of this agreement is part of the southern opening policy, and I think that it must be taken into account by how successful the southern opening policy has been in recent years. That is why I underlined that even if we add up Eastern and Southern data, the government's alternative market share is only around 10 percent, with much more ambitious targets at the time. As for Africa, we can speak of a clear setback. I very much hope that this agreement and its publication will affect the South American and Caribbean region in the direction that we will be able to deliver results there compared to what has already been done. But the Jobbik faction has also said on numerous occasions, and I have always asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade to have a continuous account of the activities of the trading houses. Unfortunately, this is not the case in practice, because we have seen that in many cases corruption is a shadow of their operation. And I will not speak again about the fact that the earlier commitments made in connection with these openings have not been enforced and achieved. This did not happen anyway, because in many cases exchanges took place so often and the fluctuations were so great that it was not possible to produce meaningful results in that time. I therefore believe that this does belong here, and it is appropriate to talk about this with regard to the agreement, because not only must we say the positive side of this agreement, but we also have to make the critical comments that can move in a better direction in connection with the publication of this convention. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-21-64	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki in a two-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-21-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us be a little more specific, however, about what my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy said, he is treating the foundation and foundation, the foundations that are important to you and the foundation in the bill before us in the same way. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the text of this agreement establishing the Foundation was adopted by the Council of the European Union on 10 October 2016. So this is not an underestimable civil society organisation, and it may not have been created by different vague people whose support or involvement in Hungarian internal politics may also be surprised in an American campaign-related period. So it's not the same thing.
u2017-03-21-66	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Szakács, MSZP has applied for a speech. Here you go.
u2017-03-21-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think it is worth arguing with my fellow Member Tilki on this point, because we are talking about exactly what hurts us and for some reason it is natural for you. You want to decide which are good civil society organisations and which are not good civil society organisations. Of course, civil society organisations sometimes have to take on tasks that you, the government or any other institution, could not do so effectively, could not do so well and could not be so crediblely. For example, this is what the current proposal is about. There are also civil society organisations that, whether they support or criticize the government's work, you believe that they are bad civil society organisations and people who are trying to undermine your work. That is not the case here; this is about the criticism, my honourable fellow Member, my fellow members of the Government, that must be tolerated. It must be steered in such a way that we do not have to fear the kind of civilian control, fear not the criticisms expressed by civil society, to which this is not the first time we have heard very harsh, inappropriate and non-promoting sentences. Didn't your vice president say such things? He said that certain civil society organisations had to be cleaned up. No, ladies and gentlemen, these, I believe, are to be tolerated by politics. I believe that policy must be such that it endures the trials that civil society organisations, civil control, are putting on it. And last but not least, civil society organisations need to be made impossible, but for some reason, your organizational culture is set for this. Try the power of persuasion for once, reason, do not hit, and I believe that this will serve democracy much better than when they find out who the bad and who the good NGOs are. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Attila Mesterházy: That's right! Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-03-21-68	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki in a two-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2017-03-21-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to argue with the present representatives of the MSZP either, but in our area, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, it is said that everyone starts with himself when he visualizes the imagination of dictatorship. For me, my grandfather used to be your spiritual predecessors - and we might be a little off the subject - he was listed in B-list. So you know exactly what it is to list, and we don't know that. Thank you. [[Dr. László Szakács: I have no idea, I was born in 75! Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-03-21-70	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy. And I now ask my fellow Members, not to limit your freedom to speak, to remain on the subject, if that is possible. You have the floor, Congressman. [[11.30]]
u2017-03-21-71	I would like to, Mr President, but when we are arguing in Parliament, it's just a matter of telling everyone your opinion, and the ideas are conflicting. I am surprised that my fellow Member Tilki is the only one in this Parliament and in this debate who has used the word "the dictatorship" to the Fidesz government; that is not what we were talking about. We talked about the government wanting to silence Hungarian civil society organisations. Don't let the congressman's head fall off, if you listen to me, you'll understand better what I'm talking about, if you shake too much, you'll fall off. So the point of my comment is that we didn't talk about dictatorship, but you talked about dictatorship. We have just talked about the fact that we do not think it is right to limit the functioning of civil society organisations by law and political motivation. As my fellow cook said, it is not good for a government to divide these organisations into good and bad NGOs. The other is who our spiritual ancestors are. I was born in 74, and you probably had more to do with the previous system. Here's my other colleague in 78, and the third in 75, so I think [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I am in '79!]] We were in high school when the previous system failed, so we don't have so much to do with that system. But if you think so, why don't you kick Sándor Pintér out of the government, why don't you kick János Fónagy out of the government, and why didn't János Martonyi, who was a member of MSZMP earlier, especially by reading and seeing that János Lázár is having a nervous attack on the former MSZMPs in Hódmezővásárhely? Then the way it works is if we say that you don't like it, then please, let's banish these people from the government as well. I think you have more MSZMP than we do, that's for sure. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-21-72	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Csenger-Zalán.
u2017-03-21-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must be honest with you, I do not quite understand what the restriction is if civil society organisations have to account for it. What is the restriction if we want to make their support system transparent? I do not feel any restrictions in this world, nor do I, as a Member of Parliament, feel that in my work, I would be limited by the fact that I have to give a declaration of wealth, it is a natural thing, it is expected by Members, it is expected by the people, we need transparency, it is just as true for civil society as everything else. So I think that my fellow socialists can also see that the Hungarian people are curious about whether or not a civil society organisation is financed from where and in what way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-21-74	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Since we are once again not on the subject, but on the subject of civil society organisations in general, I would like to ask the speakers, who have just checked in, to give the floor to those who will then remain on the subject. Congressman László Kács, in a normal time frame!
u2017-03-21-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I can't necessarily do that right now because I have to respond to the one in front of me. If that were the only thing in Hungary, it would not be transparent! We don't think so. A public benefit report should be made annually, an annual balance sheet should be adopted by these civil society organisations, and I think it is accessible, transparent, everyone can find, ask questions and do anything on the Internet. If this were the only thing that was not transparent in Hungary today, then I think you would be right, but that is not the case. That is not the case, and we have a lot of things to say in the press, here in Parliament, about the inaccessible, obscure cases that normally characterize the governing parties. Is that the biggest problem? ! - that's one of them. Secondly, I am pleased that you are not limited in any way by the obligation to report wealth and, as we have seen, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the very many Members of the world in question. Some forgot to write in what kind of subsidies they received, the other, who later became a minister, and his apartment kept growing, and there were a lot of things to say, by the way. These are not for transparency, they are precisely for concealment, honourable Member. I don't think the sword of Damocles over these civil society organizations is that they have to report it, because they are reporting now, but the political pressure to find out which organization you think has the wrong job and the wrong founder, and you, I quote, want to clean up your vice president. He said, "They must be cleaned up." Of course that's what we're talking about at a time like this, of course that's what we're talking about. I do not think that transparency is a barrier at this time. I do not think that auditability now has a barrier that you cannot overcome in this situation, especially with the right political support. It's used for this, not to make them impossible, it's not good to use political support. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-03-21-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Before I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény in a two-minute time frame, I would like to suggest that you refrain from repetitions. Here you go.
u2017-03-21-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, by heeding his warnings and instructions, I will absolutely abstain from repetitions. Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán's speech inspired me to press a two-minute button again. The Member said that he did not understand the problem with the government's desire to clarify the financial background of civil society organisations and said that the Hungarian people were curious about who financed these organisations. We also think that the Hungarian people are particularly curious to know how Lőrinc or István Garancsi managed to create such assets for Andy Vajna. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: He was weak!]]
u2017-03-21-78	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application, so the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to react. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposed Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the SADC EPA States, of the other part, will follow. The government referral is T/14463. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr László Szabó, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-21-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the States participating in the Economic Partnership Agreement of the South African Development Community, of the other part, was signed on 10 June 2016. The Agreement governs trade relations between the Contracting Parties, namely the European Union and its Member States and Botswana, the Republic of South Africa, Lesotho, Mozambique, Namibia and Swaziland. Angola has the opportunity to accede to the agreement later. The agreement will create more favourable market access conditions for contracting parties' businesses in the field of trade in goods and services through tariff dismantling and regulatory cooperation. The European Union is the largest trading partner of the Southern African Development Community. In 2015, the total trade concept was close to EUR 73 billion, of which almost EUR 300 million were trafficked by the countries of the region with Hungary. In line with the southern opening strategy, Hungary is actively involved in boosting trade relations in the region. The market access of Hungarian products and businesses is supported by the Hungarian National Trading House, which has offices in Botswana, the Republic of South Africa and Namibia. Act L of 2005 on procedures for international contracts 7. Pursuant to paragraph 1 (a) of Section 1 of the Act, the National Assembly may authorise the recognition of the compulsory scope of the agreement. The same law 9. Pursuant to paragraph 1 of Section 1 of this Article, the agreement must be declared by law. I ask this House to accept the bill that has been tabled. Thank you.
u2017-03-21-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-21-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us may be familiar, since we discussed it a month ago, then all the factions gave their support to the draft. I would like to make a little clarification about what was said at the time, and I hope that you will not take this as a distraction. [[11.40]] But a month ago, when we discussed it, my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy said that he also supported the bill before us as a member of the South African friendly department. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is no South African friendly department, there is a sub-Saharan friendly department, of which we are both members. I hope this is not a mistake in the direction of a request for disengagement. I would like to ask you to confirm once again the proposal, which we confirmed four weeks ago. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-03-21-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-03-21-83	Thank you very much. It was already worth coming into Parliament because I have received useful information and I thank my fellow Member Tilki very much for clarifying my sentences. I'm going to insist on that in the near future, I'm sure. In other news, I'm not planning to deviate from the subject here either. So I think that it is our task, which has been done before; to turn the word a little more seriously, as you have said, that it is naturally in the national interest to support such an initiative. It is therefore important that Hungary also has an opportunity in this economic area. There have been many different openings, and the Jobbik fraction has been asking this question several times. In this economic area too, Hungarian companies will certainly have something to look for. So we would encourage, if one could say so, the activities of the trading houses to perform their tasks effectively or to perform their tasks more effectively in this area, and indeed to help Hungarian companies and products to access the market. Therefore, I can only repeat what I said earlier that the MSZP fraction naturally supports this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2017-03-21-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go.
u2017-03-21-85	Mr President, Dear House, Perhaps more than on the previous agenda, we should note that it is quite funny when these legislative proposals come back to us every month. In fact, it is a simple ratification process. Hungary adds little to this. If you like, at EU pressure, you will bring to Parliament the ratification of what you are giving up to ratify. But if that is the case, then, in the course of the presentation or even during a possible closure, in addition, of course, to support this excellent opening motion, I would very much like to hear something about the government's visions, the potential increase in the volume of EUR 63 billion that was raised in the economic area concerned during the previous debate. And we would also be very interested to know how long-term cooperation between the whole region and Hungary is envisaged, in what sectors, where appropriate, by the volume, use and touch of product groups. And at that time, we have not yet talked about the situation that the impact of the brutal future population surplus in Africa in Europe could lead to, at least partially prevent this impact by economic intervention and economic means. So we shouldn't be giving this lecture for hours, a few minutes of vision would have been very nice for us, and I still feel good about it. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-21-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent Members do not wish to speak or stay in the Chamber. There will now be further speeches by Members, since no one has applied for a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, who asked for the floor in a normal time frame. Here you go.
u2017-03-21-87	Mr President, Dear House, It is very disappointing when there is no debate, let alone a debate, but it is not really about speeches on the subject. We must say that it would be very important for the government to take into account, in the context of these various association agreements, various instruments and materials to be ratified, the movement of the European Union in the long term, even in terms of the region. This obviously concerns not only goods exports and their volume, but also other political processes to which Hungary could react, not only through the EU, so not only by sending the impulse in the direction of Brussels, but also by direct investments in the region. Obviously, there are framework agreements on this and framework agreements which, of course, provide only frameworks, but I find it unthinkable that either Mr. State Secretary or the government would not have any idea of the direction and relations they are building in this region, whether in a decade's perspective or in an outlook. And we are going to have a special debate - and I do not want to add to the discussion - on the fact that the population surplus from the region concerned, which, overall, could be of billions in size in the coming decades, is going to be limited to millions in any case to how this will be managed. In our view, not in the present way. That is why Jobbik has put forward new professional proposals on how to make the physical border barrier more complete. We are quite certain that, without an independent border guard, you will not be able to deal with this problem, and since you continue to reject our proposals on this issue, I feel that in the coming years we will have a lot of barren debates on this issue, and I very much hope that there will be more productive debates. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-21-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I'm asking the Secretary of State if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] You do not wish to respond, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group has applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-21-89	Mr President, Dear House, In recent weeks, unfortunately, or fortunately, the problem sea of those who have suffered from foreign exchange credit has once again become at the forefront of interest. Unfortunately, we could say that because the government has tried to intervene in this situation with another misguided step, with little success. Perhaps the best of these would have seemed to be that people's real estate could not be squandered under value, but at the same time we see that the regulations here have also been misdirected. There is very little to know, for example, about what has been the subject of the legal debate since the third unsuccessful auction attempt on the fourth, when the current regulation still allows for the applause of the property of those concerned, not at 100%, 90%, but at only 50 percent, if any. Then it cannot be ruled out at all that they are demanding additional funds from them and from them. We can therefore say that this method of intervention was not perfect in its entirety, which is painful and disappointing because three years ago, on behalf of Jobbik, we presented a proposal that would have dealt with this problem in a full way. A little strange is the feeling that we already have in the case of the Quaestor-damaged, as Jobbik's representatives submitted 24 amendments to the Hungarian Parliament that would have preceded the entire Quaestor scandal at that time. Unfortunately, simply because these were opposition motions, they were rejected. The result is known. Even then, professional arguments could not be raised; nor could they, in the case of the better proposal of three years ago, prevent them from squandering the property of the citizens concerned at a fraction of their value and then demanding another million on them. We have already proposed the right to walk away, under which, if the financial institution concerned has undertaken to include a property as collateral and market that property, it should not bother the debtor with further claims - in quotes - so allow him to leave as a free man. Since then, this truncated regulation has passed, not the right-wing one hundred percent, but the liquefying form of it submitted by the government years later, and the eviction moratorium has expired. As far as the auctions are concerned, it has been and will take place in the order of tens of thousands, and the victims may only be lucky that most of them have failed, whether they are interested or without a buyer. Therefore, it is not certain that the current truncated Fidesz amendment would improve this situation. What we do see, however, is that the National Asset Manager could give air to many people, provide temporary help, but this would require the government to finally change according to better pressure, to remove from the asset management system the need for a mandatory contribution from the creditor bank. [[11.50]] After all, the creditor bank - and I will say it 150 more times in Parliament, if necessary, until they change this - will interfere with the system, preventing in many cases the rescue of families and the rescue of homes. And we also see that there is another escape route: it would be an institution of the so-called private failure. The Christian Democrats also submitted a liquefying version of this, and they had no particular luck with the bill, since if I remember correctly, the shop closet on Sunday is also associated with their name, the private institution, and a number of drafts of laws that have been muffled or misplaced, which have not fulfilled the expectations attached to it. In the case of private bankruptcy, I recall that in a Christian Democratic representative's media interview, he even spoke of the magnitude of 20,000 that this system could help so many people. On the other hand, the reality is only a few hundred interested parties and signatories to the contract. Jobbik would therefore like to achieve that by making the system of private bankruptcy more humane, much more people can connect to this system, while avoiding eviction and pushing it further away. Here, too, it would be very important that, after a five-year term, when very strict conditions have been implemented, victims who have been looted by an unjust system are also granted the right to walk away as free men. So let these people, once they've been wiped out, start their lives at least from zero, but certainly not from minus. It is regrettable that we have not yet been able to hold a substantive professional debate before this House, as Fidesz-KDNP has already canceled Jobbik's proposals at Commission level, which is why we are reconvening the foreign exchange-credited round table in order to exercise a professional position and the resulting pressure on the government, taking into account the opinion of the whole group of stakeholders, which will be irrefutable. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-21-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, from Jobbik's group also applied for a post- Agenda speech: the Ukrainian power again threatens the Hungarians of Transcarpathia, and the Hungarian government is silent again! It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2017-03-21-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, A few weeks ago, I gave the title of my speech after the agenda at that time that new anti-Hungarian laws would be expected in Ukraine. Then I was talking about draft laws in Kiev, which, if adopted, would actually banish the use of the Hungarian language in Transcarpathia to the level of communication within the family. The authors of these proposals would continue to build the Ukrainian nation state by abolishing the possibility of using regional languages, including the Hungarian language. From the 10 percent currently in force to 30-33 percent, from kindergarten to university only Ukrainian language training would be allowed, and Hungarian could only be studied as a foreign language in Transcarpathian schools. All media products in minority languages should also appear in Ukrainian, but there are also such impossibilitys in some of the drafts that it would be mandatory to interpret theatre plays in Ukrainian in the language of nationalities in a synchronized way. In addition, the absurd provisions would be checked by tongue chimes, and serious fines would be required for those who break them. Dear Parliament, We Jobbikians not only hear about the situation of Transcarpathian Hungarians, we experience it every day through our members, sympathizers, family and relatives. In my speech on 22 February, therefore, as a representative of Jobbik, who is party to the people and who feels responsible for all Hungarians, I asked the government to stand up with significantly greater determination in favour of the acquired rights of Hungarians in Transcarpathia, such as language use and educational licenses. The Ukrainian state is trying to make the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia, which is already in dire economic conditions impossible by further restrictive measures. At that time, no one on the part of the Hungarian Government felt it was important to respond, just as Mr Szabó State Secretary, political secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who left a few minutes ago - he could have waited for this speech. Ladies and gentlemen, All politicians like to see their prognosis finally proven. I can say now that we were right again; immediately adding that I wish it were not so. From time to time in the Ukrainian Parliament, it has been suggested that double citizens should be punished, but Kiev has so far pursued a real policy on this issue at the top levels. However, a few days ago, Ukrainian President Porosenko personally tabled an amendment to deprive all citizens of Ukrainian citizenship who are citizens of another country, and all of this would have inconceivable consequences for the Hungarian community in Ukraine, which is in the face of a sister war and is on the brink of economic bankruptcy. Dear Parliament, According to Jobbik, the recent increase in legislation against indigenous national communities in Kiev requires a decisive response from Budapest. Even if they are intended not to be directed exclusively against the Hungarian community, and some believe that they are merely trying to strengthen Washington's slow commitment recently by escalating the crisis, diverting public attention from the extremely serious economic problems and the failure of the fight against corruption, such as the enrichment of the Ukrainian political elite, which also embarrassing Lőrinc. Dear fellow Members, If one of the proposals is accepted, the Hungarians in Transcarpathia will be put in an impossible position. Therefore, the government should prevent this by all means possible. If it's somewhere, we can't back down on Transcarpathia. From the beginning, we Jobbikos acknowledge and support the programs and actions of the Government in Transcarpathia to help Hungarian education, culture and the maintenance of health, as well as the development of the local economy, as we also supported and welcomed the cooperation of the two large Hungarian organizations in Transcarpathia. We continue to say that we need to support Ukraine's European integration and membership of the EU, but we are not willing to do this unconditionally, as an advance gesture against Fides. Clearly, we need to set clear conditions for the survival and growth of Transcarpathian Hungarians. A democratic Ukraine should be a good partner and a close ally to our country, but we must take the most decisive action against Ukraine, which oppresses and intimidates its national communities, and even threatens to expel them from their homeland. However, we do not even see a trace of this action in Hungarian foreign policy. Dear Parliament, 21, preparing for the government. As a party of the century, it is clear that the survival of Hungarian communities abroad requires not only a church, a school and a local community, but also the possibility of material growth. At the same time, the Jobbik government will also take down XX in 2018 as well. With its harmful nerves of the century, its approach to being small, and the policy of advanced gestures, it will prevent restrictive and restrictive measures by using all bilateral, regional and international fora, and will act to increase the rights and territorial autonomy of indigenous Hungarian national communities. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-21-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will meet next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 11:57 p.m.]]
