u2017-12-04-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome all of you and welcome those who are monitoring our work today. The 27th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Nándor Gúr will be in charge of the meeting. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear fellow Members, According to folk and professional traditions, on the day of Borbála on 4 December each year, the mining society is celebrated by the country and the institutions associated with the industry. Since 1993, the most prestigious professional award, the Saint Barbara medal, has been awarded for the recognition of high-quality, effective work for mining and metallurgy. XLVIII of 1993 on mining The law also states that miners are entitled to wear miners' uniforms and to use their own anthem in recognition of their unique professional traditions and distinguished work. December 4th is a good day in the Christian culture circle and in the Hungarian ethnographic tradition. According to legend, St. Barbara's tyrannical father of Asiatic descent confronted the Christian religion, which he refused to deny even under torture. Over the centuries, St. Barbara has become the patron saint of several professions and communities other than mining, such as bell makers, masons and firemen. Although there are far fewer people working in this industry today as a result of decades of sectoral redundancies, the farmers of the mining industry still have a place and a role to play in the current Hungarian industrial policy. In the spirit of tradition, a miner's memorial year was held between December 2016 and October 2017 in Tatabány. It's called a commemorative year. The starting date of the event was the 120-year-old roll-out of the first Csille tatabánya coal and its closing day was the 70-year anniversary of Tatabánya's becoming a city. Today, at the Memorial of St. Barbara, we remember not only the Christian martyr standing up for his faith, but also our appreciation for all those who, under difficult circumstances and risking their lives, have or are currently carrying out this work of centuries of tradition and sacrifice. With the traditional greeting: respect to the miner! Good luck. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work today with speeches before the agenda, and then we will take place at the hour of immediate questions and answers, then we will continue our work with a political debate, and we will conclude today's Parliament meeting with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government today, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, has applied for a speech on behalf of the government:. The experiences of the EU-Africa Summit, the dangers of migration from Africa. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2017-12-04-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor before today's agenda because in the second half of last week, the European Union and the African Union summit was held in Côte d'Ivoire, on which, of course, the issue of migration was an important item on the agenda. If I wanted to sum up what was said there in one sentence, I could tell you that the dangers of illegal immigration remain with us. Many African countries remain in a state of destabilisation from a security point of view, many African countries face fundamental economic challenges and, by constantly losing their previously owned territories, look for more and more, other and other areas of influence, increasingly desperate and, as a result, even more cruel. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As a result, we have to assume that Africa will be an inexhaustible supply of illegal immigration to Europe in the coming years. This is the fact that should be taken into account when shaping or giving an opinion on the immigration policy of the European Union. All these facts clearly show that immigration policy in Brussels, which encourages immigration rather than wants to stop it, poses a huge security and economic threat to the European Union. The European Union-African Union Summit has also demonstrated that illegal immigration should not be encouraged, encouraged, encouraged to leave their homes and move towards Europe, but rather to develop policies and then implement policies that allow people to stay in their own homes, or at least as close as possible. The Hungarian approach, which says that help must be taken to where there is trouble and that there is no need to bring trouble or danger where there is no danger, has proved its truth at the summit held in the second half of last week. Of course, there are also countries in Europe that think that they want to address their own labour market and demographic challenges through migration. There are such countries, but this decision must be its own national sovereign decision; each country can decide for itself whether it wants to be an immigrant country or not. Some countries decide to be, yes, they want to be; Hungary, however, decided that the Hungarian people made a clear decision in the referendum that they did not want to become an immigrant country. Hungary can solve both demographic and labour market challenges without migration. We have therefore also made it clear at the summit that we do not accept that some countries are putting pressure on other sovereign countries to change their position on migration. Of course, there are more and more African countries that take a constructive position on this issue, because they have no interest in crowds walking through Africa uncontrolled, they have no interest in their best minds leaving those African countries. For this reason, there are three issues that need European countries to support African countries, and Hungary can be expected in this respect. First of all, in the field of border protection. It is important that African borders are not free to cross, African borders must also be protected, because it is no exaggeration to say that Europe's security begins today in Africa; if they can protect the borders in Africa, then the flow towards the north can obviously be stopped. Then economic development programmes must be implemented in order to eliminate the economic causes of emigration, and African people will find work in their own countries that will prevent them from leaving their homes. [[11.10]] Thirdly, scholarship programmes should be launched in order to open up a clearer vision for future generations. Today, 976 African students are studying in the scholarship programme funded by the Hungarian government. We want to continue with this policy, ladies and gentlemen, but, on the basis of the outcome of the summit of the European Union and the African Union and what has been said there, it is clear that, unfortunately, the replacement base for African immigration flows to Europe is inexhaustible, which we must continue to expect in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-2	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible for the factions to respond to what has been said in two minutes. I'll ask if any of the factions want to live with it. [[For signal:]] Yes, Member László Szakács of the MSZP Group asked for the floor. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-12-04-3	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I have had the opportunity to listen to some of this at the committee meeting today, because I could ask you this question. We see that there is border protection, which is solved in Hungary as well, economic development and scholarship programmes. At scholarships, I don't necessarily understand why it's close to home if you're studying here, but in terms of economic development, what you've done. You do not think about community solutions, but always find such a unique, real Hungarian virtuoso road, which is not necessarily effective, but at least expensive. By the way, trading houses have been opened, not a lot, in order to boost the economies of both our country and the African countries, so that obviously everyone there can find their own calculation: Botswana, Gambia, Mozambique, Namibia, Seychelles, South Africa, Morocco and, by the way, all romantic places such as Angola, Chad, Côte d'Ivoire, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, which you have said about, for example, in Botswana - before they closed all of them, you told Botswana that it is not really worth trading there or looking for economic development there for Hungarian relations, because few people live there, but many of those who live there are very poor. In fact, there is no specific solution, there is a Community solution: the European Union will sit down with 164 countries in two weeks, and they will try to find a common solution to catch up with the countries from which the migration wave starts, and they believe that this has a Community solution to which, let's face it, your initiatives do not fit. They're good for supporting a few people, of course, because your co-worker said it's so far away, who can check what we're spending here. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] That is what this is really about in the framework of this programme. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-12-04-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Ákos Hadházy asked for the floor from the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2017-12-04-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was thinking about whether we should answer; it was not necessarily necessary, because nothing else happened than the usual pro-government speeches or pro-government speeches, when we see that they want to demonize, not solve, an existing problem, the refugee crisis. Of course, once again, we have not heard any proposal for a solution that would actually help us with this problem. It's not the government's lie, and it's not the basic lie that it's a refugee crisis, because it's a refugee crisis, it's a very serious crisis. The real lie is when they say that this is the only problem for Hungary, and it is not a problem that tens of thousands of people die of incurable diseases, many more than on average in a Western European country, and it is not a problem that we can practically talk about education, schools as a broken plant today. These are the real problems, and those are the problems that I'd like to steal. At this conference, to which the Minister referred, announcements have been made, there will, in principle, be improvements. These developments will be used by using fixed grants and public procurement rules, through our Eximbank, once again, to receive the horriable funds of the Prime Minister's friends and entrepreneurs close to the Prime Minister. From the outset, the LMP says that solutions must be done together with Europe, that Europe must not be demonised, that Europe can make proposals, that Europe can work with. The refugee crisis is a crisis that can only be resolved together with Europe, the protection of borders needs to be resolved together, the need to tackle climate problems together, and the need to work together to help young people in Africa, because let's talk about what this conference was really about. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] the problem of young people in Africa. Thank you very much.
u2017-12-04-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Zoltán Bóna of the Fidesz Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-12-04-7	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I would rather turn back to the subject and, above all, thank you for this precious and very important report. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Fidesz has always believed that the problem, the conflict, must be resolved locally, that it should not be imported into Europe, but Hungary, as it has shown many times in its history, has shown solidarity with those in distress. This is why it is very important to have a programme of Hungarian Helps, one of the basics of which is to say that the migration crisis in the world must be dealt with at its root, help must be brought there, not trouble here, i.e. the root causes must be eliminated so that the affected peoples can live again in peace and security. Unfortunately, the EU leaders do not always see this as the case, as Juncker said in his recent interview: "There is an obvious need for migration in Europe over the coming decades, so we need to make legal roads possible for those who want to come and come. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We believe that this demand was not formulated by the Hungarian people, on the contrary, as demonstrated by the outcome of the 2016 referendum. After evaluating more than two million responses to the national consultation, we hope that it will also be clear in Brussels that the Soros plan will not be implemented in Hungary. Thank you again for the report. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Gábor Staudt asked for the floor from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-12-04-9	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. We can fully agree that Africa is the future challenge from a migration point of view, so raising awareness is justified, and we also agree that it is necessary to help these people locally. There is no debate between us in this, and I think that the strict closure of the borders that Hungary has done enjoys a national consensus in Hungary, although the Fidesz-KDNP is obviously trying to make it look like there is a great debate in this respect among the opposition. The Jobbik clearly resented not only the border closure, but also the re-establishing of the border guard and the abolition of the independent border guard, but, as we can see, most of the left-wing parties are also at the side of the fence, so there is no debate between us. The fact is that what the Government of Hungary says would be credible if it did not allow 20 thousand people to settle with the settlement bonds. This is all the more true, because they couldn't answer the question that if Juncker had bought 1300 settlement bonds for those who wanted to come here with the quota, or those who wanted to be installed here, you wouldn't have protested but applauded, collected the appropriate commissions through their offshore companies, and then received Brussels' money back with four times the interest. That is why this amendment of the basic law could not go through, which, if it had been introduced in a timely manner and in such a way that it could not be possible to bring back the settlement bonds after the next election, and that no government could bring back the settlement bonds without two thirds in the future, if this consensus had been reached, then Hungary's amendment of the basic law would be in force, which, I think, would provide Hungary with an easier defence option. Not to mention, when we talk about job opportunities and labour shortages, we do not hear enough from the Government of Hungary. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] How he's going to bring back the 500,000 people who voted with his feet and fled abroad. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-04-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Mátyás Firtl of the KDNP Group has spoken. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-12-04-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, On behalf of the KDNP faction, I would like to state and confirm the statement made by the Minister in his speech before the agenda, as we see it, but various NATO analyses prove to all of us that the unstable situation in African countries is present, destabilization, as you have said, is present, which, of course, encourages people to leave somehow. [[11.20]] We say, ladies and gentlemen, that thinking about a real Community solution, thinking about it in the interests of the community, thinking about it when we are asked to do so, when we are really interested in community thinking, honourable Members, in helping to create opportunities to stay in place in the interests of the communities there. We are truly in solidarity with the nations and peoples when we provide the economic opportunities that the European Union has for the people who live there on the ground, so that they can stay there, and not, as Minister said, that the country's elite should emigrate, even though their own country should be built there in Africa. We are also in solidarity when we are pursuing a policy towards the European Union, honourable Members, that it is indeed in the fundamental interest of the sovereignty of nations that their borders should be protected. It's a national matter of who wants to live with who. Once again, we also need to tell Ákos Hadházy precisely when he talks about refugees, refugees, migrants and economic immigrants. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett, who intervenes:]] Just listen to the latter Trump message, Madam Head of the Group, who says that America is also leaving the UN International Convention on Asylum. Thank you, and we look forward to continuing this policy by the Hungarian Government. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches before the agenda. Mr László Szakács, Member of the MSZP Group, with the title of Bad Goals, Unplanning, Corruption. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-12-04-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Today, the House will hold a production conference on EU spending, European Union proposals and developments called a debate day, which is probably what you will hear, which, in itself, will not be worthy of this House either in its style or in the quality of the debate. We've done a few of these here, we've listened to the way the government tells us what the fanfares are, the opposition tells us what we think are the points that could be improved and criticized; these two never meet each other. Then you can continue these questions in the media. Every year, HUF 2200-2400 billion arrives in Hungary, and much more of this could be increased, since 6-6.2 percent of GDP, compared to this, the growth in Hungary is largely half the size of Europe's resources. Then, of course, you'll have to examine why. Why is our GDP growing slower than the countries in the region? The Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia is passing by, but Bulgaria and Romania too. Rather than looking backwards at them, they are far ahead of us, because they are developing much faster than we are. We often listen to how Hungary's competitiveness is increased, but it is practically that we are 69th place on the competitiveness list, even though so much money can be spent. This is because bad decisions are made, because the execution is bad, these developments are not planned, which are not interacting with each other, but just who needed what, or what the kindly driver's finger pointed out what to build. This is how a small railway is built, this is how a stadium is built, so everything is built from European Union funds, instead of starting the Hungarian economy. On the other hand, we need to see that in addition to the bad goals, the unplanned, there is also corruption here. In the corruption index, however, Hungary is performing well. Not like in competitiveness, where we are at the back, but in corruption, this country is doing very well. We've been able to institutionalize this. On the basis of recent research, it is also said that, by international standards, this is largely or entirely among HUF 320-400 billion per year for EU funds in Hungary. Think about it. The HUF 400 billion is 20 times the annual salary of the paramedics. But I also want you to understand that this is a hundred stadiums in Felcsúti. This is what disappears on the hands, because today in Hungary, it will not be someone who is brave, who is innovative, who works a lot, who has risk tolerance and responsibility, but on whom the finger of the dear leader points out, and then there are other ascending stars such as Lőrinc Mészáros, who are now building everything in this country, or Andy Vajna, who will see what will happen to his casinos now, and there are the fallen, such as Spéders, the disgraced, and there are those who have failed. But it's not a crime in your system. The Mengyi Roland, who has been exposed, is still Vice-President of the Economic Commission, is sitting here in this House, and our fellow Member, György Simonka, is still our fellow Member. This only shows that this is not a crime in your system, you are not building a more livable and developing Hungary, you are not building a sustainable developing Hungary, you are simply trying to enrich a few more people in your own moonyard. It also shows that, as Mr President referred to Borbála Day in his introduction, I myself came from Komlo, and I can only say good luck to you, but since you have, industrial restructuring has stopped, and because you do not bring European Union funds where they need to be. Miskolc, Ozd, Komló, Pécs, Kazincbarcika is not on your map. In places where the heavy industry has ceased, the ability to sustain the population has ceased, the light industry has not been able to replace these problems, it has not been able to replace jobs, and since then life has been worse and people have migrated. 15 to 20 percent of the people have gone. We say that we need open public procurement, we need accountability, we need to finish spending that harms taxpayers, we need to set up an independent, corruption prosecutor's office and we need to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and we think that Hungarian SMEs need to provide EU funds, health, education and, above all, to reduce inequalities. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-12-04-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csepreghy Nándor, State Secretary, has responded to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-12-04-15	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, If we are talking about convergence policy and development policy, then many people could speak in this Parliament, but the MSZP is not among them. Based on your governance, the MSZP is not one of them, since let's compare the state of the country that was adopted in 2010 with that seen in 2017. Unemployment, budget deficits, state indebtedness, people's indebtedness and current conditions. Hungary has now regained its position in 2002: the region's most dynamic growth economy. Indeed, European Union funds are part of this, the European Union funds that you have not been willing to have a substantive debate on at any time in your government period, and what I see is that there is no meaningful dialogue within your own party, because Mr Gőgös, who is not here now, says, on the basis of the debates that have been held so far, that it makes sense or has made sense to take part in this debate. But, you know, Congressman, we are unfortunately in the unfortunate situation that seven years after you gave up the responsible burden of government, today Hungary must still have your fault, or I dared say that Hungary must repay significant sums due to its lawlessness. Let's just remember the metro 4 case. The Metro 4 case, the total value of which was HUF 452 billion. In 2003, it was said that this investment would cost HUF 166 billion. Today we are seeing a number like this again: OLAF, the European Commission's law enforcement agency, says that the politicians you support and the businessmen you support stole so much money from the 4th metro investment. And it is not enough that Hungarian taxpayers have been harmed by HUF 166 billion, and today there is still another HUF 60 billion to be fined for corruption in your governance to the current government with the taxpayers' money. I think that's what you should be talking about in front of the agenda and facing the people whose pockets you're taking this money from. But, speaking of subway 4, allow me to remind you of some very serious investments, which could also have received EU or domestic development resources from your support, such as the 40-inch lookout or, for example, the dog's fitness investments. Mr S, do not talk to me about the importance of economic development when, in your government, 16 percent of the total EU development framework was used for economic development. I would like to mention that, at the moment, this figure represents 60% of the overall EU development cycle. In particular, there is an increase in the amount of resources available to operators that you have not been able to produce in eight years. [[11.30]] On the other hand, they've produced other results that they can't seem to explain today. Your court star attorney, Csaba Czeglédy, who damaged pensioners and students by HUF 3 billion, receives a loan from the Altus, the Altus that the European Commission supports Altus with significant amounts of money. I am curious to know when you will raise your word against the fact that forbidden party funding will be implemented through the support of Altus, which, apparently, will once again end up in the register of the MSZP. You know, Congressman, against your HUF 8200 billion development potential and missed opportunity, this government has a HUF 12,000 billion worth of money, reaching HUF 12,000 billion in how and how Hungarian economic operators should be supported. [[Dr. László Kács constantly intervenes.]] And if you have spoken of the forgotten settlements here, I would like to remind you of Salgótarján, which is one of the main bases of the MSZP. It has not become a modern city under your governance, but Prime Minister Viktor Orbán signed an agreement with the MSZP mayor of Salgótarján that will open unprecedented progress to a city that you have forgotten during your period of government. Congressman! All you have done with EU development resources is either squandered or partly carried them home. On the other hand, these resources are in the interest of the Hungarian economy today. The difference between the two is clearly seen by Hungarian voters, the Hungarian taxpayers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-04-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The LMP is on the side of local governments! Ms Bernadett Szél applied for a speech from the LMP Group before the agenda. Here you go. You have the floor.
u2017-12-04-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You are so obsessed with György Soros' advertising that you are no longer able to deal with the real problems of the Hungarian people. So, I thought I'd let you know that there are problems, like municipal workers. They have a wage increase demand, and you are so unwilling to speak to these people, who are running this country every day from large settlements to small settlements, who have declared a series of strikes for next year. I think it's another symptom of the rural-destructive, village-destructive policy that Fidesz-KDNP has unleashed on this country in the last seven years. You know, over the last few months, I've met a lot of mayors walking around the country, and there was a mayor sitting next to me at the coffee table with the local Fidesz calling him on the phone and threatening to tell me what would happen to him if he spoke to Bernadett Wind, because Bernadett Wind is an oppositionist, and Fidesz doesn't tolerate opposition voices. You've become such a party, such a rapist from Fidesz-KDNP! I've seen with my own eyes, my own ears, how you try to keep the mayors of sacrifice at bay and cripple them. Many of these mayors fear that after 2018, you will continue this blackmail, this intimidation, and the destruction of the village that has now become the trademark of Viktor Orbán and his government in recent years. But, you know, local mayors have a huge role to play in running this country. They're not just city managers, they're janitors. They are the ones who are constantly there for people, a link between politics and people. What I see is that Hungarian people love their living environment, they love their home, and it depends on how we feel in this residential environment, how successful and autonomous politicians are in these areas. I can see that you have done a great deal to destroy the Hungarian countryside, and you are practically trying to raise a violent organization in which the local mayors have your outstretched arms. You're abusing community service. I have experienced with my own ears and eyes that public workers have been sent to the land of the local strong man to work outside the community for private reasons. I'm the one who experienced that. And then there's the theft of EU funds. Now the prosecution has been made for the crimes of fiscal fraud and other crimes which have caused a significant financial disadvantage. As we all know, the mayor of the Isaacs is involved, who, by the way, set up a system like this. This accommodation business goes elsewhere, but he himself built a hunting house with money for local development resources and has to pay 35 million forints. The fact is that we do not want such Hungary and not such mayors. As you know, at the end of the week, the May Other has made an alliance with the New Beginning, with the party of György Gémesi, in which there are talented, persistent mayors. We believe that Hungary needs a new era, and the foundation of this new era is that local government is the most important. What we see is that without local communities, local economies and locally credible representatives, there is no way to get one-on-one in this country. We see that the mayors of the New Beginning give hope to everyone who believes that there is still a fresh start in this country and that there may be a different local government. I met dedicated people, starting with György Gémesi, who has been at the head of his city since 90, and knows the city from nail to end, from thorn to mountain, and knows practically exactly what problems there are with this system. He knows exactly that there is no way to tell what will happen in these settlements from here, Budapest, and he knows precisely that the salary that local government workers currently receive cannot be made a living, and it is impossible for these families to get from one to the other. That is why we are initiating and submitting a bill to increase the public service salary base from the current shameful HUF 38 650 to HUF 65 000. As the trade unions ask, we will do so, because we can do it, because we will not steal the money and build hunting houses from it. But there is Gábor Glasses, who performed a miracle in his own village, created a thriving community with the BioSzent András program, saved that settlement from certain destruction, and created a fantastic place throughout Europe. But there is also the mayor of Manfa in Baranya, Krisztina Hohn, who spoke first about the repression of settlements of less than 2000 people. We clearly see that such people and such communities must be given space in the changing Hungary, because we know precisely that if you remain in power, then the countryside will be nothing more than a destroyed, ruined region, and if the countryside is destroyed, Hungary will perish with it. Dear Parliament, I think that a change of era is necessary here and now.
u2017-12-04-18	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. On behalf of the Government, Minister of State Tibor Pogácsás responds to her speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-12-04-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that George Soros is not advertised by the government, but György Soros is advertised by himself. György Soros is the one who joined the election campaign in Hungary, and obviously you, as Soros, are interested in making this possible in Parliament as often as possible, and this kind of campaign organisation should happen. [[Dr. Szél Bernadett: Viktor Orbán was supported by Soros. The president's ringing the bell.]] You know, Congresswoman, one of the basic principles of parliamentary democracy is that we listen to each other. You always ask others to do so, but you are never able to keep your mouth shut when they answer you, honourable Member. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I wasn't a Soros scholar for a year. Dr. János Fónagy: Where have you been? Nowhere.]] I also have to say that if you make allegations that anyone is threatening mayors or anyone else, and you see this, you should press charges, Congresswoman, because threatening someone in this country is a crime. You may not know this yet, but it would be worth studying the relevant legislation, Congresswoman. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] Thank you very much for calling, but allow me to stop doing this to you. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He's also making accusations about community service that are clearly a felony. And if such crimes are discovered, they will be investigated and, obviously, the authorities will take the necessary steps. So, once again, I suggest you do this. You insult nearly 3,000 mayors by declaring that they are only members of the company with which you have made an election alliance, the mayors who do it for their own community. I reject that, Congresswoman, on behalf of the Hungarian mayors. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I never said that.]] Just because the Hungarian mayors, the Hungarian authorities, are doing a great deal to ensure that the citizens of Hungary live in their homes in their own settlements and that their homes can truly be felt as their own. He also mentioned the mayor of Manfa. I met him, too, right, then he was still fighting the implementation of the Soros plan, against refugees, against the admission of migrants, but it seems he has also changed his attitude considerably and is trying to find a political umbrella in your party. However, honourable Member, we, the Fidesz-KDNP and the Hungarian Government are on the side of Hungarian citizens, and in this work, in this political activity, we see the municipalities as cooperating partners, and we also cooperate with the municipalities. If you knew the history of the Hungarian municipalities since the establishment of 1990, then you would know that the Hungarian municipalities have been in constant economic austerity since the mid-1990s, continuous financial repression and continuous financial strangulation. [[11.40]] I can tell you that, for example, in the mid-1990s, local government assets were sold, the municipalities had access to their respective shares during the first Orbán government, which was a significant help for the municipalities to be able to contribute their own share to the proposal for EU funds that started then or started after. But I can also tell you, honourable Member, that, by 2008-2009, the government activity has made the municipalities completely impossible. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: We should talk about after 2010.]] According to the State Audit Office of the State, the State Audit Office stated at that time that the state had withdrawn some HUF 3800 billion of funding from the municipal system, and therefore the municipalities were indebted and almost impossible to carry out their tasks. That is why the government led by Fidesz-KDNP decided to take over the government's debt and restore the freedom of the municipalities, restore the financial opportunity of the municipalities to carry out the necessary improvements and activities for the benefit of citizens. The municipal system is stable today, the municipal system closes the budget year after year with a positive saldo since 2013, and the funding of tasks for municipalities ensures that they are able to carry out their mandatory tasks and that the municipalities are able to participate in new applications partly due to self-subsidisation, partly due to the increase in their own economic power. In addition, with the strengthening of the Hungarian economy, we can provide local authorities with more domestic resources to develop. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What about wages? The workers are about to strike.]] But it is not only financial support that is important, but also the ability of municipalities to organise real communities in their own residential communities, they are able to serve the interests of citizens. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, How would the housing crisis be alleviated? Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied for a speech before the agenda with a title from the Jobbik Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-12-04-21	Mr President, Dear House, In recent weeks, we have had countless debates in Parliament about the housing difficulties in Hungary, which concern young people, the beginning of young people's lives, and, well, we have talked a little bit about how many tens of thousands of people have used the benefit of the CSOK regularly, if any, the total amount, which I am very pleased to say is an important step in the national economy. At the same time, I have also noted several times that it is not certain that the most needy social group is benefiting from the government, since it is typically available from the upper middle class, let's say the 10 millionth discount of the CSOK. And we also have to say that it is not a luxury investment at all to have a self-owned property in Hungary, but there is a clear need to obtain rents and affordable rentals in Hungary. And if the government examines the various causalities of emigration, it will find, in addition to low, pathetic salaries, the second reason for the difficulties of home creation. Once again, this creates a breeding ground for Jobbik's EU wage concept, as these two areas need to be affected at the same time so that the migration spiral can slow down. But what we can see is that if we only look at the number of building permits issued for new buildings referred to by you, then the data from 2 years ago allowed the 400-year exchange of the entire Hungarian real estate stock. Think about what that means in the case of, say, a panel house in Frog County. Based on the number of building permits we have just issued for 400 years, we have reached the point that every 300-350 buildings would be replaced, so once again, referring to a panel house, I have to say, this shift is very small. Especially since your good friends and their housing companies have benefited by taking away most of the construction work. On the other hand, Jobbik is a philanthropist and has made suggestions for every typical life situation in order to expand the CSOK - also in the case of house renovations and used properties - in the direction that if this development reaches at least one level of energy, anyone can benefit from the benefit concerned. You will also have to answer, and I will try to point out the questions to make them easier to answer, so that is the first question: what do they say to a young person who would have to pay a rent in the capital of 130 thousand forints plus rent if he had to start or had to start his own life? As a second question, why not review the empty property stock in Hungary. We're talking hundreds of thousands of real estate here. We know that these are very poor, and we also know that there are three types of ownership in them. But tens of thousands, we claim, could be brought back to life in Hungary, where appropriate, through the intelligent channelling of public works. If you could only expand the supply side with a few ten thousand properties at the capital level, you could slowly start to lower the rent price by eliminating the supply shortage. So what we have to say is that if the real estate changes every 400 years or even 300 years in Hungary, and the situation of hundreds of thousands of panel apartments remains the same, this government not only groups such a pitifully weak amount of resources here, but also its predecessor, we can say that a very serious housing crisis will be emerging in the next 10-15 years. In fact, they do not provide any opportunities to break out for those whose environment actually breaks down, rots down. You are not even helping to say that, by modernising district heating or certain public services, these people can live at least a degree cheaper and exist in their own habitat. In the long term, however, they should start by increasing the number of properties that can be moved by thousands, by tens of thousands, in line with Jobbik's tenement concept, by purchasing central materials, by Hungarian contractors, and by now there can be no response to the elemental absence of rental apartments in CSOK's institution and its expansion. Once again, I would like to say that it is typical to move up from the upper middle class, as in Hungary there can be no luxury need either for the sense of availability of the independent apartment or for a young couple to move into a rental. I've outlined completely typical life situations and needs, so my questions in points are just as simple and clear as that. We expect clear answers to the questions asked, as the government continues to fail in this area. The price of this must be paid by the Hungarian future. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-04-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2017-12-04-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, He expressed many thoughts and questions, but the question is how much to believe Jobbik, the Jobbik that says something one day, and the next day does the opposite. How can you believe the promise that you have made here in your speech before the agenda, or perhaps incorporated into a question? But let's look at the facts of what our government has done in recent times in order to make sure that if someone wants to start a new life in a new apartment, what opportunities they have. And while you said that we should list in a mantra way the benefits of the CSOK for young families who have access to support and very, very preferential loans, and how many of them are there, I would like to repeat it again, because it is a very, very important step that, as part of family support, the government promotes access to home with not a small amount of money, not a small amount of resources. The government has taken a number of measures within the framework of the home protection and home creation programme to help solve housing problems in Hungarian families. I would like to highlight the family home creation discount, which is very popular, and until the end of October 2017, 61 400 families received a CSOK application for HUF 170 billion. By the end of October 2017, nearly 8,000 self-built families requested a tax refund of HUF 35.8 billion, and 8350 three or more children's families applied for a 3-percent loan for HUF 74.1 billion related to CSOK. Thus, thanks to the home creation programme, last year's housing market took a turn. There has been a significant improvement with the possibility of commenting on a positive trend. [[11.50]] The availability of state aid, the low interest rate environment and the sustained improvement in the employment and income situation of the population also support the implementation of household housing targets. The government's goal is to give every Hungarian family a home of their own. [[Nándor Gúr will be replaced by István Ikotity in the notary seat.]] But there's another problem. You know very, very well that there are many who seek and find jobs far away from where they live. Their housing needs to be solved. They do not have the problem of not having housing, because if they have a family home or have their own apartment in a condo, but because they work far away from home, that is why they should be helped with housing support. Both employers and employees are assisted by the government by law. Employers can be described as a cost for a significant part of housing support for a long period of five years. In fact, as from 1 January 2018, the amount of the eligible amount will increase, which the employer may account for as housing aid, and workers may apply for a shorter period of time, for a period of nearly one year, if they can be claimed and can be reached if they live in the countryside, 60 kilometres away from their place of residence. There is therefore significant support. In addition, work and mobility must, of course, be helped so as not to have to move from their own apartments to workers who do not work in their own homes. Support for such work is also available for both the employer as a tax benefit, i.e. as a eligible cost, and for the employee. I would also like to mention one very important thing, the construction of working hostels, which has appeared as an opportunity in recent years, more precisely this year after the invitation to tender. More than ten municipalities have signed up for this option. It will soon be built on a thousand scale within the framework of a work-place, a work-place suitable for the accommodation of workers, where employers and local authorities can place workers in the city and in the settlement. This can also be achieved through a significant tax reduction. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Employees can account for both the establishment of workers' hostels and the cost of working accommodation as a cost. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-04-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Why is the advent important - or, where there is waiting, there is no emptiness in the group of KDNP, Imre Vejkey has applied for a speech before the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2017-12-04-25	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and Gentlemen, As head of the Hungarian Parliament's prayer breakfast, I welcome you, above all, for this reason. And the question I want to put to you today is what it means to us individually, that is, to wait, even if we recognize the essence of it, and if we do not. Recognizing and living the essence of advent is not easy, because over the past decades much has been stratified for this period. These layers must first be broken down so that we can properly celebrate Jesus'birth in Bethlehem at the end of the advent. They can rightly suggest what would be the proper, worthy way to celebrate, that is, what we should do at the time of advent, so that Christmas does not fall on us, but will indeed be a celebration in capitals. Well, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we should clarify what advent means. Jingle bells? Shining windows? The smell of cinnamon and punch on the streets wherever we go? Or rather the spiritual expectation of the Lord's coming? If we dig deep into our hearts, we will find the only true answer to the question, and thus we will be able to experience the advent of 2017. Decently, as a waiting period, not as a pre-Christmas, because the holiday begins on Christmas Eve. Thus, Christmas will be a real holiday, and not a mere recreation, but a day of involvement in something that offers us all the opportunity to truly find our way back to life as a whole. Ladies and Gentlemen, For money, today it seems that we can get anything right away, but remember, the most important thing we can never do is buy real love for money. [[Noise and intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: They sought it!]] Loving God and our fellow man is not a matter of money, it is not a question of wealth [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It is a matter of the soul, because it is completely independent of wealth, and in most cases the heart is greater in people who live in poorer conditions. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Don't forget that in the testament of the world conqueror Alexander the Great asked that he be placed at rest in his right hand with a sword placed on his chest, symbolizing that he conquered the entire world he knew then, but that his left hand hangs out of the sarcophagus with an empty palm, and that symbolizes that I have conquered the whole world, but look what I bring to the afterlife. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That is what you should acknowledge!]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Let us imagine this sarcophagus and think about what it says to us, even from the perspective of millennia. This distant message, as Christmas approaches, can lead us today to realize that giving is not about measuring the gift in material terms, but rather about caring about the other, whether I care about it, which means that I give some of my love away, and whether the other one returns it. This is the true meaning of the holiday and the gifting, not the things that can be bought with money. This is the gift that will last forever, which neither rust nor moth can destroy. Allow me, with these thoughts, to wish you all an intimate advent and a blessed Christmas. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-04-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-12-04-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think we all thank you for your good wishes and your words. I myself am completely incomprehensible to the fact that, when our fellow Member talks about the advent and talks about fundamental values for all people, why can't the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction still show some minimal respect and shout into it [[Sándor Burány: Because we do not like hypocrisy!]] when a fellow Member talks about the advent. What would be a consensus within the walls of Parliament if it were not for a fellow Member to talk about the preparation for Christmas, the spiritual regeneration here at this time? [[Dr. István Józsa: Didn't I tell you he was going to scold us? Nándor Gúr: You're pathetic!]] Or about how important eternal values are, then you can take it without yelling. It is quite shocking to me that even this is not a minimum for the MSZP that, preparing for Christmas, humanity may [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Are you talking about humanity? Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] in some ways, the Hungarian Parliament could show more, because, you know, honourable Member, those sitting here are some examples. If you cannot listen disciplinedly to our fellow Member about the advent, what example does he set for people? We are not on a parliamentary political debate day when it comes to political issues, but on eternal values, I was hoping that at least this would work. [[Dr. István Józsa: Alexander the Great was a pagan! Dr. Zsolt Legány: And the last eight years!]] But the Socialist Party didn't make it either. We are obviously living in a completely different period of ecclesiastical liturgy and in everyday life, when pre-Christmas four weeks of preparation is the time of advent, not only because of the external marks that the congressman said, but also about the rorate Mass, about the morning Mass, where believers can experience even more that we are heading out of darkness towards the light. That's obviously what the candles on the advent wreath have been lighting more and more. In history, the first Advent wreath had 24 more candles, yet more and more candles were lit daily, now in the four weeks there are four candles, as the liturgicals of the evening of the great Saturday show exactly this kind of brightness. So this is the path to enlightenment for everyone. Exactly the true weight of Christmas, the real value of Christmas, is that it is surrounded by such a preparation. On the one hand, we believe in history that a thousand years of waiting preceded the first Christmas, when the Savior was born, but this kind of expectation can be relived for four weeks, so that after that our joy will be even greater, knowing redemption that the savior came to us 2017 years ago. [[12.00]] Obviously, this period is also a time of a kind of increased attention for many when more attention is paid to family members and fallen people. If someone reads the newspapers, watches the websites, watches the news, you can see that there is no day when more and more charitable organizations do not announce what they are preparing for Christmas, how they help others to help people in a difficult situation. The government has also tried to expand the opportunities of charities, since they can expand their own equipment and operation by HUF 4.5 billion from their own development resources in the coming years. This is a kind of mediation function on their part, as what transmits support is either made up of donations from individuals, or consists of state aid or donations from companies, but they also carry out a huge and important task in 52 weeks of the year, and in these four weeks, increased attention will be paid to them. We hope that these four weeks and the holiday of Christmas will have some positive influence on our political life, some of our thoughts, and some of our actions will be made more humane. We hope that the advent will be a positive waiting period for everyone, and that everyone will bring positive results, at least in terms of style. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-04-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Gyula Budai, from the Fidesz Group, with the title of Hungary's major EU fine for the biggest corruption scandal on the left, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-12-04-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, About HUF 60-70 billion in EU fines are threatening our country because of the corruption scandal around metro 4. The 4th metro investment cost HUF 452 billion, of which, according to the European Commission, HUF 272 billion could be involved in the corruption of socialist-free democratic governments. Of the 272 billion forints, 166 billion forints were stolen and cheated. With this money, HUF 76 billion came from the European Union, while the rest was paid by Hungarian taxpayers. In 2016, the European Anti-Fraud Office closed a four-year investigation, which led to the conclusion that the contracts relating to the investment of Metro Four, which revealed irregularities and errors, were concluded between 2002 and 2010. But OLAF wasn't the only one investigating metro four's investment. According to the UK's Office against Major Fraud, the Alstom leaders provided EUR 2.7 million in bribes to Hungarian left-wing politicians in connection with the metro investment, and as we know, Péter Medgyessy's wife received EUR 600 thousand, or HUF 180 million. And the fate of the rest of the money is in question. As we know, the investment of metro 4 was also examined by the Parliament's Economic Committee, but the persons invited by the committee - Ferenc Gyurcsány, Gordon Bajnai, Péter Medgyessy, former prime ministers, Gábor Demszky, former mayor, Miklós Hagyó, Csaba Horváth, and Gy. Erzsébet Németh, Head of the then MSZP Group of the Metropolitan Assembly, currently DK politicians did not attend the hearing of the committee. Only Péter Medgyessy was willing to come, but he couldn't do anything because significant corruption money was flowing to his wife's company. It was also examined by the Metro Corruption Committee of the Metro General Assembly on the basis of which he quoted these left-wing politicians, but none appeared before the committee. The working group prepared its report, and the Metropolitan Assembly accepted it and then sent it to the European Parliament's budgetary control committee last week. The case is also being prosecuted on two counts. On the one hand, the Prime Minister's Office filed a complaint on the basis of the OLAF report and on the basis of an international request since 2011. Furthermore, investigations have been carried out in France, Britain and other EU countries on the corruption cases of Alstom. All this proves, Mr. Secretary of State, that the Alstom case is the biggest corruption case of all time. On the basis of the investigations conducted by the various committees, it is clear that the responsibility lies with the Medgyessy, Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments and with the MSZP-SZDSZ city administration managed by Gábor Demszky. The fact that the former Socialist Heads of Government and the fallen mayor of the capital, Gábor Demszky, are also involved in the case indicates how deeply this case, the four-way investment, is woven across the left. The most important thing about metro investments is where the money went missing. Which left party or party did you land in? What do the former MSZP politicians in DK and SZDSZ know about the fate of this money? Are you willing to speak in order to save the fine for Hungarian taxpayers beyond the HUF 166 billion stolen? By the way, Ferenc Gyurcsány said earlier: it is better not to talk about where the money came from in the MSZP. If left-wing politicians have nothing to fear, they will clarify themselves, clarify themselves to the Hungarian public, and provide the information that will enable us to discover what was behind the 4th metro investment. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Hungarian citizens rightly expect that those who committed the crimes at that time should actually pay the penalty for the biggest corruption scandal on the left. That is why I do not understand what kind of corruption you are talking about when the MSZP and the left are full of corruption cases. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-04-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Nándor Csepreghy responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-12-04-31	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, One thing we can see for sure is that the MSZP is capable of doing what it has done in the government, corruption and damage. Indeed, as you rightly said, we are talking about the biggest corruption case in Hungary's history after the age of the regime change, as we managed to steal 166 billion forints from an investment of 452 billion forints, cheat them and cause damage to Hungarian taxpayers that is questionable whether they will ever make a return. In addition, the current investigations in Brussels show that OLAF, the European Commission's audit body for budgetary and public spending regularity, has launched and closed a new investigation, which included proposals for the European Commission to withdraw nearly HUF 70 billion from Hungarian taxpayers. If the Hungarian government has to pay for this, the Socialists will have an additional HUF 70 billion on their criminal record. The Hungarian government can do two things here. On the one hand, the legal basis for this investigation cannot be contested, since the documents described by OLAF refer to specific crimes, so when the government received this document from OLAF and the European Commission, Minister Lazarus, representing the government, immediately filed a complaint at the prosecutor's office and, after the complaint, a prosecution's work began. Last week in the framework of the government meeting, Prime Minister asked the Minister of Economy, as a member of the government, to allocate the amount of HUF 70 billion in the budget of 2018 so that it could not affect the health, social care and education register, so we do not want Hungary to suffer any further damage due to the crimes committed by socialists and free democrats. Prime Minister also instructed the Prime Minister's Office and the other wallets to provide them with all the documents, to give them the best possible cooperation with the various law enforcement authorities, and to try to ensure that this amount is worth Hungary as much damage as possible, or, if necessary, to compromise this amount. After all, the beneficiary of this investment was the Municipality of Budapest, so if this fine is to be paid, then it will be paid in the first round by the budget, but then the citizens of Budapest should bear the burden. Discussions about subway investment leave a number of questions. As you said, there are several concerned free democratic city leaders, socialist politicians, socialist prime ministers who are still active politicians and who know a lot about these investments; one of them, for example, through Ferenc Gyurcsány's own company and through his former company, Altus [[László Cook intervenes.]] is still in cooperation with the European Commission. [[12.10]] Through this cooperation, they receive significant commission fees, and these commission fees, for example, could play a role in another corruption case, which was also discussed here before the agenda, in the Czeglédy case, where pensioners and schoolchildren were essentially damaged by HUF 3 billion. It would be very helpful to clarify the issues of the next period if these politicians stood up to the press, or, where appropriate, to law enforcement authorities, and said that these companies made such corruption money disappear through these contracts and at least showed how, from whom and in what form the Hungarian State could recover these amounts. What I can guarantee you is that, as long as Viktor Orbán and his government run this country, we will go after these cases and, under the responsibility of the government, we will try to minimize the damage that the socialists have done to this country, on the one hand, by stealing this money and, on the other hand, leaving an unpaid invoice of nearly HUF 70 billion, which is the fine. We are still scraping at the tip of the iceberg, because the debate in front of other law enforcement authorities, such as the British authorities, can cause further skeletons to come out of the closet. I think it is a shame for Hungary that, seven years after the socialists' governance, their affairs still need to be cleared today in relation to corruption matters. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-04-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to announce that Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied for a speech from the Jobbik Group after today's agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 12:11 now. We will begin the discussion of questions and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Attorney General if he has received a complaint about the legal violations underlying the suspension of the Mayor of Demecser City? It's an address. Congressman Zsolt Legány has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-12-04-33	Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. Dear House, Dear Deputy Prosecutor General, As the press reported in detail, on October 30, the representative board of the city of Demecser brought proceedings against Mayor László Váradi Fideszes. At the same time, the mayor was suspended from office, which was subsequently found justified by the Nyíregyháza Administrative and Labour Court and maintained in its scope. According to press reports, the body of representatives has decided to initiate the procedure on grounds of serious violations of law, which also raise the suspicion of abuse of office and fraudulent treatment. By far, the press is talking about the improperly cleared fuel costs exceeding the approved framework and decisions taken without board authorisation and information in relation to the suspension. I would like to ask Mr. Deputy Attorney General whether, since the decision of the Demecser representative board at the end of October, there has been a complaint against the mayor in connection with his official activities or against an unknown unsub on suspicion of abuse in the mayor's office or municipal institutions of Demecser, and if there has been a complaint, please also inform me whether criminal proceedings have been initiated on the basis of the complaint. I would also like to ask the Deputy Attorney General not to refer to an ongoing case, since, last week, Mr Attorney General has answered one of his immediate questions here, Mr Budai, and immediately told the prosecutor's position on the case. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President.
u2017-12-04-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Attorney General István Lajtár. Here you go.
u2017-12-04-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In answer to a verbal question, I would like to inform the Member on the following points. In connection with the activities of Mayor László Váradi, there was no complaint received this morning by the prosecutors of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County Police Department, the Nyíregyháza Police Department or the National Tax and Customs Office's Regional Crime Directorate. Thank you very much.
u2017-12-04-36	Thank you very much, Deputy Attorney General. We'll continue with the questions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, notary of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. Will there be a comprehensive inquiry into investments in the water utility? It's an address. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, notary, is the subject. Here you go.
u2017-12-04-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, In the previous EU budget cycle, i.e. between 2007 and 2013, Hungary had hundreds of billions of forints at its disposal in order to channel the entire territory of the country and all its settlements. These waste water and sewage treatment investments initially received only 65 per cent, then 85 per cent, and finally 95 per cent, and even the remaining 5 per cent of the project was taken over by the Hungarian state everywhere. Despite this, significant public contributions were also made by the municipalities concerned, namely the water utility companies which were established there and which are co-investors in the implementation of the tender. Hundreds of thousands of obligations per property are a significant burden in the lives of rural families, which is why those concerned would have the right to expect the company to finally account for them after the completion of the construction work: what did they spend their paid-up money on if the entire investment was essentially centrally financed? But it looks like they're waiting for him in vain. This, Minister, is unfortunately a national phenomenon. I could list dozens of places as examples myself. Now, allow me one or two. Nagybajom, Tamási, Iregsemcse, Orosháza, Kistelek, Baks, Christmas Day, Bükkönd, twenty settlements along Tápió, Simontornya, Jánoshalma, Deep well - only a few from which they came to me with such problems. Where appropriate, there are hundreds of millions of items per municipality, where the net total cost of investments and the difference between State aid is much lower than the amount of money collected from the population. Dear Minister, As Head of the Managing Authority for KEOP Resources, you recently promised the Budget Committee to review the accounting for these investments at your annual ministerial hearing. I'm asking you if you can hope for a fair settlement from the residents concerned. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-12-04-38	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. The answer, as we have heard, will be given by Minister Miklós Seszták. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2017-12-04-39	Thank you. We have already discussed this subject with the Member at the Commission hearing and I have already said that I have reservations that the managing authority can take a substantive action on this issue. We have examined it since then, and all of them are LVII of 1995. After analysing other legal obligations, we have found that we, as managing authorities, do not have the power to do so. I think that citizens of the municipalities concerned or of the municipalities concerned who have paid such contributions may, of course, request a settlement from the water utility company under the rules of civil law. [[Mrs Loránt Hegedűs: The managing authority is responsible for EU funds!]] So, Congresswoman, we, the managing authority, do not have the power to do so. We suggest that, if you are at the forefront of this, you ask the public to ask the water utility companies for this settlement. There's nothing more we can do about it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-04-40	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy: When will local government civil servants receive a wage increase? It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister on behalf of Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, who is competent on behalf of the Prime Minister. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-12-04-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, First of all, allow me to welcome here in Parliament our allies, the delegation of the New Beginning, including the party president, György Gémesi. We would also like to thank our friends for their experience and knowledge in helping to prepare today's thematic municipal day. This year's last meeting was held on Wednesday by the National Council of Civil Service Interests, where the salary increase of local government civil servants was also on the agenda. There's no agreement here. The government sent an unauthorized negotiator to the meeting, whose role was to make it look like the government was sitting at a table with interest representatives. It's not like that. The government's evacuated OKET today. The State, as an employer, does not engage in meaningful dialogue with its own employees, ignores them, does not involve them in decisions concerning them. [[12.20]] There has been no meaningful discussion of wages for years, and only the representatives of the competition sector are sitting at the table about raising the minimum wage. One of the public service workers, if not the worst-cased group, is the municipal civil servants. The majority of around 22,000 employees earn between 100 and 120 thousand HUF net. They leave the field with a crowd of graduate civil servants because they can't make a living on humiliating wages. The government's response is that the municipalities have nothing to do with the state. The government is declaring a death sentence for small rural settlements by dissipating municipal offices. How long are you going to hurt the local governments, when are you going to raise the wages of those who work there? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2017-12-04-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I said, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-12-04-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I reject your statement that the state would at any time say or the government would at any time have said that it had nothing to do with the municipalities. The government has done a great deal after 2010 so that the municipalities can recover, we have done a great deal to ensure that the municipalities can regain their lost independence and economic freedom. The government took over the debts of the municipalities, and the non-indebted municipalities received aid to enable them to make improvements that they could not make because they had not taken out loans from other sources. After rethinking municipal tasks and state tasks, resources were released in the municipalities, and everyone who worked in the municipalities well knows that when the budgetary debate of education and public education institutions was held, it was always said that the state provided a maximum of 40-50 per cent for the maintenance of schools from the state, the rest had to be added to the operation by the municipalities. Obviously, since the maintenance of schools is not a municipal task, this amount remains as a free source in the municipalities. I think that this is very simple: municipal officials, municipal workers are in employment with local governments, it is the local government that can determine their wages, and the municipalities have also taken advantage of this possibility, since it is not only with the wage determined on the basis of the pay table that the municipalities are financed. I have to mention that as of 1 January 2017, municipalities have the opportunity to modify the pay table freely and have the opportunity to raise the wage. If the municipalities face operational problems, the municipalities may apply for aid from extraordinary operating aid. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Where is the work for the Vas county nursery, kindergartens, schools? It's an address. Congressman Péter Agh has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-12-04-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Government of Hungary considers it a strategic goal to help families. In this context, it supports childbearing and, on the other hand, helps institutions that contribute to the development of children, and effective measures have also been put in place to create homes. We still have a lot in common, but it also shows that our results must be protected. We need all this, because they ensure that we strengthen the Hungarian families. The results of the government's work for families and children can also be seen in Vas county. I would like to ask you today about institutional issues. During this cycle, a number of decisions were taken to provide community or domestic resources for nursery schools, kindergartens, schools and secondary schools. Whether it is a complete or energy renovation or a kitchen renovation, in the case of proposals coordinated by several ministries and the county government, decisions have been taken to improve the conditions for the care of children and young people. Although in many places the construction is just coming, the source seems to be secure. With all due respect, I ask Mr. Secretary of State: how do you see the results of this cycle in Vas County with regard to nursery schools, schools and secondary schools? I would be grateful if you would also address my constituency from Kőszeg to Sárvár to Celldömölk, which includes 77 settlements. I would be honored to thank you in advance for your reply. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2017-12-04-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I am happy to tell you that both in kindergarten and kindergarten development as well as in school development, many billion HUF development funds are coming to Vas county. If I look at nursery schools and kindergartens, more than HUF 3 billion, and if I look at schools, then in the near future it will be more than HUF 2.5 billion, which will only come from EFOP sources to these schools. If I look at the funding of crèches at national level, there will be a huge improvement here, as next year we will spend 2.5 times as much on the funding of crèches, this year there was HUF 16.5 billion in the budget, and next year's budget not supported by the opposition will be HUF 36,6 billion, i.e. 2.5 times. If I look at the development of the Vas county nursery- kindergarten, 84 new cradle seats will be created from 300 million forints, 462 cradle seats will be developed from 512 million forints, and 3605 kindergarten seats will be renewed from 2.2 billion forints. At the schools there will be the development of 13 public education institutions, as I said, and the school environment of ten thousand children will be renewed in the two districts. In the case of the two districts, in the case of the Szombathely district, we spent 241 million forints last year on maintenance and renovation, much more this year, and already 274 million forints. Energy modernisations were launched in 12 institutions from territorial sources, six of the EFOP institutions have infrastructure upgrades, both in primary and secondary schools. In the national public education infrastructure development program, the construction of a gym starts in two settlements, in Csákánydoroszló and Rumban, we spent 30 million forints on school furniture purchases in the last two years, already acquired in 15 schools, and 25 other schools are now in the process of purchasing school furniture, i.e. chairs and tables. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Since the list is long, I will give the rest to Congressman in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Burány, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Prime Minister's Office:. Why do you not support the development in Kispest? It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister, on behalf of Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, on behalf of Mr András Tállai. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-12-04-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As Minister János Lázár pointed out on several occasions, taking into account, for example, the Brexit and other challenges facing the EU, the resources available for our country are intended to be tied down as soon as possible and by 2018 at the latest. It is precisely because of the loss of time that the local government of Kispest is incomprehensible, it is incomprehensible to the fact that the proposals submitted by the Prime Minister's Office are not judged, so the development of the Kispest Mézeskács Kindergarten, although it was submitted on 31 May 2016, has not been evaluated until today. But the families of Kispest had hoped for this success, since you refused to renovate your partner, the Pearl Clam Kindergarten. Similarly, the district city rehabilitation project could not be appreciated, even though it has been on the wallet table for 15 months now. Dear Secretary of State, Why don't you support these Kispest applications? What is the reason why, in a year and a half, thousands of families in Kepest do not decide on important developments? Finally, are these specific projects supported or not? I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-12-04-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-12-04-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, During the 2014-2020 development period, the competitive Central Hungary operational programme, the main mission and overall goal of the so-called VEKOP, is to ensure the development of the Central Hungary region, Budapest and Pest counties, further increase their economic competitiveness and reduce the development gap within the region. [[12.30]] The VEKOP grant is HUF 258 billion. Sectoral ministries design mirrors, national projects, and a dedicated source for the capital and Pest counties. Budapest has a HUF 21.9 billion VEKOP source. From this source, districts carry out projects that match their integrated territorial programmes. The district projects are in the final phase of decision preparation, the final decisions are expected in the second half of December. On the basis of the procedure procedure, the regional operator must confirm the proposal for a decision of the projects by a general meeting decision, after which the final decision will be taken. I would like to inform the honourable Member of the fact that Article 19 (1) of the Rules of Procedure does not apply. a HUF 350 million bicycle friendly infrastructure development has been launched in the area of the district municipality within the framework of VEKOP. The project also provides for a grant contract and implementation is ongoing. The decision-making work of the additional VEKOP projects is ongoing, all the calls have been announced, all the funds are available, and so far the project has received a grant agreement of HUF 191 billion, as well as HUF 86 billion of funding has already been paid. As a result of this continuous work, a decision will be taken shortly on the projects in question, which will also be available to the Member. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Sebestyén Csító, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "World Day for People with Disabilities." Congressman Sebestyén has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-12-04-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, December 3rd is World Disability Day. The aim of the good day set up in 1992 is to promote a better understanding of disability issues and to provide support for the dignity, rights and well-being of people with disabilities. One of the most important principles of data subjects' rights and decisions with them is the "Nothing about us without us"! It's a thought. Unfortunately, I have to say that this is not the case in Hungary in most cases. The latest example is the provisions on old age support adopted last week. The largest Hungarian interest organisation, MEOSZ, indicated before the hearing that there were several points of concern, it is unfair that the benefit was granted only to those who cared for their children, cared for them for twenty years in their own homes, and missed out on those who cared for their other close relatives; it is not realistic that it applies only to those who did so just before they retired. This measure is unviable because they have either become physically unfit to care for, to care for their own relatives, to care for their children, or, in many cases, to die prematurely before retirement due to serious disability. And I didn't tell you then that people who care for their loved ones 24 hours a day in their homes - with a very big task and no incidental cost off the shoulders of the state - are still receiving a humiliatingly low allowance. Of course, what can we expect about the enforcement of the rights of people with disabilities, seeing the state of accessibility in the country and seeing that the mayor of the capital can ignore accessibility aspects during a metro renovation. Dear Secretary of State, Don't take this the wrong way, we're happy for the new care, but for the reasons we're told, it's a waste of joy. That is why I ask: are you finally willing to take into account the lifelike, legitimate demands and suggestions of those involved? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-04-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-12-04-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The very reason why the government has taken this new positive step is because it is constantly consulting the stakeholders. It was their suggestion that a person who, for a long time, nursed his own child at home and actually took up this sacrifice for a half-life, should be introduced this pension supplement of HUF 50,000 a month. I think, on a humane level, everyone has to support this and not attack it. Just as I think it is important that if someone had been caring for their relatives at home earlier and received a fee of HUF 29 500, then they can now receive not only a basic and increased amount but also a special amount of care. And the sum of these also increased: who cared for a seriously disabled relative in 2010, he received HUF 38 350, and now he receives HUF 58 680. This is also a step up that helps many families. But if you have already brought up the World Disability Day, let us not forget that in Hungary we spend a quarter of the social development resources, or HUF 103 billion, on disability development, precisely so that the quality of life of people with disabilities is as good as possible; in particular, they have a chance to work on the labour market. Here, thanks to the application system, 200,000 people with disabilities, health-damaged and disabilities have been given the opportunity to work in supported employment and open labour markets. And it is also important that the process of emancipation of their institutions is progressing: 600 out of 6 billion forints could leave the large crowded social institutions and get personalized care now. A further addition to this is the new social decision that represents a surplus of 50,000 pensions for home caregivers of their children. However, it should not be forgotten that the number of home care recipients has also increased by 40 percent in the last year, from 75,000 to 107,000. This is how we strive to extend these forms of care for everyone. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Szászfalvi, representative of KDNP, would like to ask the Minister for National Development: what does the government do to ensure the security of online purchases? It's an address. Congressman László Szászfalvi has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-12-04-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, The development of digitalisation has not left trade intact, due to the development of the Internet and the payment of cards on the Internet, the role and turnover of web stores are increasing at an extraordinary pace every year. The Christian Democratic People's Party supports modern trade instruments, but at the same time considers it important to draw consumers' attention to the dangers so as not to cause unexpected inconveniences to customers. In e-commerce, the consumer does not have the possibility to actually view and consult the seller before buying the specific product. Web stores therefore have to comply with strict conditions and customers have the right of withdrawal. The website in Hungarian, a. huå termination and advertisements in Hungarian do not guarantee that the order is made from a Hungarian webshop. This is important because ex post product support and enforcement are much more difficult for foreign traders. Dear Minister, The Christmas shopping season has begun, and in these weeks the number of purchases in webshops is increasing. On the basis of the above, prior information is not only important, but in many cases it can also facilitate purchasing decisions. In case of online shopping, conscious decisions can be made, and with a few extra clicks a number of subsequent problems can be prevented. In the light of all this, I ask the Minister: what does the government do to enable customers to exercise their rights in the case of online purchases? What tools does the government use to help online customers? I look forward to your reply, Minister. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to Mr Seszták's question will be from Minister Miklós Seszták. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2017-12-04-59	Mr President, Congressman! Dear Parliament, Internet commerce, as the Member has pointed out, is growing explosively, and this is especially true when holidays are approaching, as domestic consumers have become everyday shopping in this way. I must say to the Member that this year's focus on consumer protection has been on e-commerce and we can report good results: the share of online stores that have repeatedly committed consumer protection infringements has fallen to 14 percent from 54 percent in previous years. The significant improvement was due to the legislative amendment adopted by Parliament last December, which strengthened consumer protection controls on electronic commerce. The higher consumer protection fine introduced in Internet trade has a significant deterrent effect. The Internet Laboratory of the Consumer Protection Authority and the Ministry of National Development has jointly examined over half a thousand web stores in the last year. Experience has shown that most of the offending webshops cooperate after the official warning, often correct the errors detected as early as during the procedure, before the decision becomes legally binding. [[12.40]] In addition to the continued presence of the authority on the market, it is also necessary to provide appropriate information to buyers and traders. From 2017 on, the government's website contains a database of undertakings which have committed an infringement in the field of e-commerce. In order to make informed customer decisions, based on the experience of official controls, we informed customers on several occasions, for example before black friday, about what to pay attention to before buying online. In 2018, we also pay special attention to electronic commerce, protecting families and Hungarian customers. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-60	Minister, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy:. Why does the government suppress local governments with central investments? It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister on behalf of Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, who is responsible and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, Minister of State Nándor Csepreghy, Deputy Minister. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-12-04-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The fundamental principle of the Fidesz government is greater centralisation, with the result that local interests, the repression of citizens and our communities, and the disregard of their interests and intentions. They also suffer and suffer when they encounter harmful central investments. A typical example of projects that favor their own moonyard, often megalomaniac, is the City Park. Here an entire area of 100 hectares was taken out by law from the hands of its rightful owners, the capital and the districts. Thus, despite the overwhelming majority of the capital's opposition to the destruction and integration of the Liget, they still want to beat through it, as through this project you can distribute the buildings and restaurants located in the right place to those close to Fidesz. Meanwhile, they are destroying an important resting and recreation place for citizens. Secretary of State, one of the main instruments of central repression is the Priority Investment Act. Ferenc Gyurcsány's law was improved by Fidesz because of the fraud of the investment in Sukoro. The threshold has been exceptionally lowered and extended not only to Community but also to private investments. Thus, Ferenc Gyurcsány's law became the instrument of the Fidesz privileged, annuity class to prevent or even interfere with investments that violate the public interest. There are countless examples of this from the stadium in Kisvárda to the rubber burner in Kaposvár, from the City Park to the skyscraper of the Kopasi dam. For this reason, I ask: why and how long does the government push the municipalities away with central investments as well? Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Marta Demeter applauds.]]
u2017-12-04-62	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go.
u2017-12-04-63	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would ask you not to listen to Ron Werber, but to the facts, because if you raise your point of view or horizon a little higher than the paper, then I think your own experience will show something other than what you have described. In particular, the second, as the third Orbán government, regards Hungary and the municipalities in the countryside much more than to ensure the economic and demographic background of large cities in Western Europe due to either the capital or EU membership. I would like to quote three numbers here for you, Congresswoman, which justify this. On the one hand, the debt consolidation that affected 2082 settlements in Hungary, and as a result the Hungarian government freed the municipalities from debt of HUF 1369 billion. After that, I would like to quote you, the operational programme for territorial and urban development, which serves exactly the new function of rural municipalities, the development of settlements, as it is included in its name, to serve the development of 19 counties worth HUF 1231 billion, and in addition, the government intended HUF 3400 billion for the development of 23 county-righted cities thanks to the programme "Modern Cities". We really needed to redefine government tasks and municipal tasks, and we believe that the essence of municipal tasks is in the development of settlements, in order to ensure that public services, let us talk about social care systems, health care systems, education systems, complementing local authorities' ability to implement developments that make a settlement economically viable and, on the other hand, eliminate territorial differences in terms of the quality of public services available there in Hungary. After all, if this programme is implemented, we will really provide access to quality life for all Hungarian citizens. Less party propaganda and more factuality! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Jenő Manninger, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for National Development: "Does the government plan to reduce the price of rail tickets purchased online? It's an address. Congressman Manninger Jenő has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-12-04-65	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The basic tariffs for domestic local transport have remained unchanged since 2010 - this is a great achievement thanks to the government's transport and economic policy. This was achieved with the government stabilising the operation of railway companies, and it should be mentioned that it supports the various rail investments by HUF 1500 billion from 2010 to 2020. In addition to large investments, rail travel will, of course, be attractive if it also serves the comfort of passengers. This is what the possibility of buying an online ticket, which was introduced by MÁV-START in 2008, and from December 2012 only on ICs and then on fast trains, and from 2016 on all domestic flights, it was possible to travel by means of a train ticket presentation on a smart device without printing. The popularity of e-train tickets has steadily increased among passengers. Last year there were 18 percent more purchases than in the previous year, with a total of 1.4 million purchases, representing 7 percent of total domestic sales. In the first half of this year, there were more than 925,000 online ticket purchases, which is 35 percent higher than in the same period last year. Passengers currently receive a discount of 3 per cent if their ticket is purchased by electronic means. My question to the Secretary of State is that the news is about plans to further reduce the price of rail tickets purchased on the Internet, and obviously the spread of smartphones is also helping this process, and it would be very important, I think that shopping on the Internet could increase many times, so my question is what additional discounts can be provided. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the question raised by the Member will be from Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-12-04-67	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The basic principle of Hungary's rail-friendly government is that rail is not an operational issue, railway is a fundamental social policy factor that strengthens the rural population's ability as the main provider of mobility needs. In recent years, the government has confirmed the financing situation for public transport without increasing the transport costs of families, and the basic tariffs for public transport have remained unchanged since 2010. With the approval of the Ministry, domestic passenger railway companies have been offering 3 percent cheaper train tickets printed at home since 2013. In order to increase the popularity of modern sales channels, MÁV-START Zrt. and GYSEV introduces newer, even higher rates of discounts from 10 December 2017. As a result of the package of measures, vending machines will be reduced by 5 percent, and the tickets presented at home on printed or mobile devices will be 10 percent cheaper this Sunday. MÁV-START Zrt. reduce the price of their electronic train tickets for each flight by a fifth in order to make better use of the flights. The possibility of pre-emption will be opened by the railway undertakings on 8 December. The fee reduction is a basket discount, i.e. not only for basic tariffs, but also for other discounts and discounts. After the introduction of regional rail tariffs and county stickers, the government reduces the transport burden of families with a new discount, the ticketing solutions become even more convenient, more attractive, and the crowding of cash registers is reduced. We hope that a significant discount will help to increase the number of users of rail services. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[12.50]]
u2017-12-04-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "Is it not enough that the government is idly watching people starve in Hungary today, even forbidding civilians to share food with them? Have you no humanity left? ! It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Borbély has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-12-04-69	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Your government is the cruelest government in the last 27 years. We're at the point where they're trying to stop him by order so the civilians can share food. In recent years, several Fidesz municipalities have tried to make it impossible for civil society organisations to distribute food from voluntary donations to our fellow countrymen in need. There were some places where this was successful, because they didn't grant a reservation permit. Interestingly, when it comes to pálinka festivals, mangalica festivals, they give permission, but when it comes to helping others, they don't. In a speech before the agenda, we could hear them talking about advent, waiting, love. Mr. Secretary, do you really dare to say those words? When they talk about it on the news, they don't deny it, they say they're expanding the circles. Secretary of State, what you don't want now is for people to see before the elections, once again, in Blaha Lujza Square, in the countryside, in villages, in small towns, crowds of children, family people, pensioners, disabled for food. You know, yesterday Katalin Novak said that the desire to help people got stronger, and besides the intention, the ability to look out for each other is there. It's a hypocrite, sly and sneaky thing they say every day. Mr. Secretary, not only do you need to talk about helping those in need, but you really should act like one. You know, after what's happened in the last two weeks, how do you want to forbid us political parties and civilians from helping those in need, not only is it obvious, but your duty is to stand there on December 24, 25, 26 for you, fidesz, KDNPs and share food! Don't take God in their mouths. After these eight years, you have no right to speak God's name!
u2017-12-04-70	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-12-04-71	I just want to remind you of the Ten Commandments and not to take the Lord's name in vain, Congresswoman. With regard to your question, it is difficult to find a speech from you which is no longer based on disproved false news, such as this one, because in all cases it brings up questions which our wallet has refuted, it was false news, there was no evidence behind it, no presentation of any kind. They threw in a theme, a fake news story, and our wallet denied it. No one wants to limit the opportunities for food distribution, and even the government has expanded over the last few years, which I am going to tell you about here, and you are going to say a week later, when this is already a case, here in Parliament, as if there had not been a rebuttal about it, when it was born, honourable Member. In the meantime, the result of Eurostat's annual report on the assessment of poverty was also born, which is pleased to say that the number of people living in extreme poverty has continued to decline in Hungary. When you steered, it was 465,000 people, now according to Eurostat calculations, 114,000 people. [[There's a lot of noise in the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much for the cooperation of the Hungarian people and for the success of reducing poverty. Over the last year and over the last five years, the risk of poverty or social exclusion has been reduced, also according to Eurostat data. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You did not vote for it here in Parliament, but in recent years, we have raised the funds for children's meals from HUF 29 billion to HUF 79 billion in 2008. During the summer break, the amount of the one-day grant was increased from HUF 370 to HUF 570. The number of holidays has been increased from 54 days to 70 days from public funding. In the basic social service, we raised the state support for food distribution by 61 percent, from 7.8 billion to 12,6 billion. You didn't notice, but the food distribution program started in your county, where 62 809 food packages were distributed, and the distribution of hot food to homeless people has started before, in which a total of 791 290 doses have been distributed. Thank you to the person who contributed to this. And, of course, these opportunities will only expand, and all those in need in Hungary will receive this from the Fidesz-KDNP government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question: "Something stinks in Balatonfűzfő - but what does the Government do? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-12-04-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Practically since the transfer of the Veszprém County Royal Szentistván landfill, there has been a problem in the surrounding settlements with a fairly strong smell effect. This summer, the patience of residents in the area has now been completely understood to run out, when they have seen that neither the authorities nor any other authority are doing anything to put an end to this unblessed state. Nothing has happened until the present moment to find out the reasons and, in particular, to eliminate them, as the residents still smell the stench, and to this day the complaints continue to come to me. The depot accepts waste from more than 150 settlements, and it has been a problem site since its installation, as in 2011 the newly transferred facility burned down. The people of Balatonfűzfő, Litér, Vilonyán, Királyszentistván and Papkeszin constantly complain about the often unbearable stench that comes from the colony. While operators claim that they follow everything, everything is done according to the rules, it is clear from the photos taken by the locals that household waste, waste, which, of course, contains quite a lot of biodegradable organic material, which can be one of the main causes of the stench, is disposed of indiscriminately. After seeing the dissatisfaction of the local people, the individual representative of the region, Mr Károly Kontra, also arrived on the scene, promised a grass tree at a press conference, and nothing has finally been achieved to this day. So I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, as the government responsible for environmental protection, what your wallet is and what the government intends to do about this matter. In your view, is an irregular waste dump a normal element of the collapsing domestic waste management system? Is there really something for the government to do if a waste manager does not function properly and makes the lives of thousands of people in the area miserable? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-04-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-12-04-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, He's drawn attention to a problem that exists now for more than one. Thank you again for giving us the opportunity to respond to these points. I would like to mention to you that we have had a lot of announcements about this landfill, too, and, indeed, things are not right here. What we see in different ways is whether something is happening on this issue or not. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Veszprém County Government Office, the environmental authority, has dealt with the state of this landfill in a separate procedure - thank God now has the possibility of doing so under his own authority, unlike before when it was necessary to carry out this task from Fejér County - and as a result of this inspection, he fined the landfill in three installments of more than HUF 8 million. In addition, in relation to the landfill, a plan of measures was also required by the waste dump company, which was also subject to deadlines. Of course, the company disagreed with this fine and appealed. I think we should accept that it is possible to do so in line with the legislative environment. I hope that the same will be stated in the second instance procedure, or that, if a judicial procedure is possible, the Hungarian State, the authority, will also have a favourable decision, and that the illegal activity that they are carrying out there must be completed. I am particularly pleased that you are dealing with the Balaton region in such a high and conscientious manner, Congressman. A few years ago, the Simicskas envelop the press conference entitled Balaton Beach. It seems to me that your interest in this area has been turned away by the Member, which may be linked to Simicska's ingestion of Jobbik. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-04-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Sallai R. Benedek and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture:, Will there be a consequence of the collapse of waste management? It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister on behalf of Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent on behalf of Mr János Fónagy. I now give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity, the notary of Parliament. Here you go. [[13.00]]
u2017-12-04-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, When the Orbán government started in 2010 the destruction of Hungarian waste management, organised on a municipal basis, producing well-functioning collection and recovery indicators each year, the LMP warned in advance: the environment and the population will suffer from dilettantism and forced nationalisation. We have also drawn attention to the fact that most of the market is transferred to the control of the oligarchs near the government. Both of our predictions have been fulfilled. Disaster control, which has been designated as an emergency solution, cannot cope with waste shipments that are collapsing across the country. Last time it went down around Szekszárd. No money comes to the local service provider from nationalized kukaholding, so the collection and transportation of waste is impossible. But the phenomenon is nationwide. While the population's daily lives have become part of the loss of selective islands, the empty dumpsters, the illegal landfills on the trench bank after many years, they are in line with our earlier predictions, who have become rich in the misery of people and the environment. For example, the press recently reported that the top organ of the system, the National Waste Management Coordinator and Vagyonkezelő Zrt., is being forced to obtain an IT solution to make a certificate, which will cost HUF 1,26 billion of public money to the circles of one of the richest oligarchs, István Garancsi, instead of the unpaid public service providers. Please report whether the Orbán government will finally abandon waste management, identify the government responsible for the waste disposal and eliminate the environmental and public health problems caused by the government itself with its own incompetence and the insatiability of its highlighted oligarchs. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Marta Demeter applauds.]]
u2017-12-04-78	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-12-04-79	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, As far as the professional part of your question is concerned, the waste manager established to carry out public tasks was set up to standardise the waste management public service and to establish a self-sustaining national waste management system, while ensuring that the results of the reduction are preserved. Central coordination makes it possible to perform more effectively in the public service, taking full account of environmental and public interests. The waste manager enforces professional aspects in the service fee paid to public service providers, so that it can motivate public service providers to ensure higher service standards through the service fee. Zrt. continuously ensure the financing of public services. The appointments for temporary care, typically until 2016, the main cause of which was the liquidity problem of the public service providers, were virtually eliminated. The relationship between the two service providers was also settled around Szekszárd. Zrt. is not a certificate maker, but operates an invoicing system; invoicing is continuous. The IT development referred to by you is carried out in accordance with the legislation, in compliance with all quality assurance requirements. Honourable Congressman, And as for the tone of your comment, it is very strange to hear from you; from you who recently offered a plea bargain to an oligarch; from you who want to take political control of the prosecution. If you're aware of any crime, file a report. I'm asking if your tone is the official position of the LMP. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-04-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Members of the MSZP, Ágnes Kunhalmi and Ildikó Bángóné Borbély, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources: å How long do we have to wait for a mammographical examination? It's an address. Before I give the floor to Mrs Ágnes Kunhalmi, who will present the question, I thank you for your cooperation; I give the chair to Vice-President Sándor Lezsák and Mrs Kunhalmi. Here you go. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2017-12-04-81	Mr President, thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary, about 5 to 6,000 new breast cancer patients are discovered each year, and about 2,000 women die of the disease or its consequences. Breast cancer is the most common cancer in Hungarian women. Treatment of breast cancer is generally more effective the earlier the cancer is recognised. Early breast cancer accounts for about 80 percent of five-year survival, so the disease can be cured to a large extent. In the case of late-stage metastatic breast cancer, this ratio is only around 15 percent. Mammographic screening is the most effective tool for disease prevention. In recent days, the press has also reported that several mammogram machines have broken down in the hospitals in the capital, which could lead to it and lead to the fact that it is only possible to request dates for the machines that are still in operation for January-February. It is certain that there is no reason to wait a long time for tests. New news is that during the morning several major hospitals and several major centers have consistently confirmed to us and my colleagues the information that they are no longer able to receive mammographic screening this year. The next date can only be given by mid-January and then only so that they can make an appointment at all. So I ask the honourable Secretary of State what they intend to do for Hungarian women. How many equipment failures do you and your wallet have, and how many patients should be transferred to other hospitals for equipment failure? Thank you for your respectful response on behalf of myself and Hungarian women.
u2017-12-04-82	Thank you, Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi. I welcome my fellow Members and give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-12-04-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, It is very important for all of us to recognise these diseases as soon as possible, so organized screening tests are important. There is no waiting list for screening, and everyone there will be given the time when they have the relevant mammographic equipment at their disposal. Here, the rate of appearance is between 40 and 50 percent. I think our common goal is to increase this, because at this rate of appearance, we have managed to recognize about 9,000 malignant tumors in recent years in time and probably save 9,000 lives. Of course, when you bought safes in hospitals, you might have thought that mammographic equipment was more necessary. In Hungary, there are currently 40 complex screening centres waiting for diagnostics in Hungary, 7 screening stations, and currently 3 breast filter mobile units are screening, but the number of these will be increased, as 10 new mammogram filter buses will be available for work next to the 10 standard filter buses. The first of these were presented by Minister Zoltán Balog and Minister Mihály Varga in recent weeks. For filter programs, we have also multiplied the possibility of funding from 2.8 billion to 7.9 billion forints. I might mention, Madam Congresswoman, when you so yell at the speech that perhaps if those four hospitals had not been closed, the mammogram situation in Hungary might have been better now. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You've been ruling for eight years. Is there money for stadiums? The president's ringing the bell.]] If you look at the extra filters, you will see a surplus of HUF 264 million in 2017 compared to the data of the last decade. Here, too, we have tried to provide additional assistance from additional resources. If these devices fail anywhere, it is the duty of the chief of staff to designate another provider where patients are treated in the same way. Of all the hospitals you mentioned, they tried to find a temporary solution, both by repairing machines and by renting machines, and thirdly by contracting with other providers, precisely so that everyone's screening could be done as quickly as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-04-84	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tamás Pintér, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. How long should students in Dunaújváros learn under life-threatening conditions? It's an address. Mr Tamás Pintér has the floor. [[13.10]]
u2017-12-04-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The leadership of the Arany János Primary School of Dunaújváros and the parents' community recently sent letters to the local government, the district and to Dr. László Palkovics State Secretary. In this letter, the catastrophic condition of the school building was reported. Unfortunately, there hasn't been any progress since it was written that there was no money for renovation. Just a week ago, a concerned parent, a mother, came to me and gave me a letter addressed to Secretary of State Palkovic, and I would like to share a detail with you. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. In the century, our children sit in their coats in the teaching class, because the windows don't close properly, so the rooms can't be heated. Some hatches are in life-threatening condition, so they are permanently sealed to prevent them falling out. The building's leaking, the sewer system's decades old. In plastic buckets, dezaks, pots and pots, rainwater is collected to avoid accidents. The electric cabinet, which is located in the corridor, where children also travel, is covered with linoleum material to prevent it from getting wet. You don't even dare think that anyone could get electrocuted. Our children learn under these conditions every day. Is this what future generations deserve? Sadly, many gratings did not allow such and similarly critical situations to be eliminated. We demand immediate action! Parents would like to let their children go to school with a calm heart, not to worry that they might have an accident on the premises of the institution to which they were admitted. So far, it's the letter. By the way, the lady will also listen to the Ministry's reply. Dear Secretary of State, I trust that there will at least be many teachers and parents here to answer the question of why young students in Dunaújváros should learn in third world conditions in Hungary today. When will the catastrophic state of school buildings be solved? Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-12-04-86	Thank you, Congressman Pintér. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-12-04-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it is good news both in Dunaújváros and across the country that school buildings can be renewed from different sources in the coming years. Every fifth school building can be renewed from 81 billion HUF EU and Hungarian co-financed programs, more than 500 schools in nearly 400 settlements. But it is equally important that the government launched it in 2014, and since then it has been able to spend 3-3-3 billion forints each year to expand schools and build gymnasiums and swimming pools. That's 9 billion forints a year. At the first stage, 82 projects are almost complete, and at the second stage, another 65 plus 9 projects are being implemented. In addition to this amount of $80 billion, more than $10 billion will be what non-state-owned schools will receive in proportion. As far as the specific case of the school in Dunaújváros is concerned, it is a 35-year-old building. Most problems arise from the fact that 35 years ago the building was built according to the technology of that time with a flat roof. Similar problems arise both here and in other flat roof buildings. As regards the specific problems you have mentioned. The school district immediately provided 533,000 forints to solve the problem of plumbing and drainage, and this problem was solved. During the summer maintenance, the ceiling was repaired in the gymnasium and the locker room; the back wall was repaired next to the school building; there was a clean mending in a few classrooms and bathrooms, as well as the yard ball grating bars were maintained. There was also a solution to the problem of closing the door mentioned by you, that in November they received 401 thousand forints from the school district, precisely so that they could repair the windows. The school district's budget for next year already includes improving roof insulation. As I was saying, the flat roof was the source of most of the problems. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's over a million forints. And in the same order of magnitude, sports development can take place at school. We trust that this will reassure the parents. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-04-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior:. What do they do to enable the municipalities to fulfil their basic tasks? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2017-12-04-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As is certainly well known to you, the Hungarian Public Employees, Public Officials and Civil Service Workers' Union, MKKKZSZ announces a series of strikes to raise the wages of municipal workers for the first three months of next year, if no agreement is reached at the meeting of the National Civil Service Stakeholder Council. The LMP has repeatedly pointed out to the government that there is an untenable situation with regard to the salaries of municipal civil servants, who have not received a salary increase for almost a decade. The situation has now developed to the point that, because of the low wages, graduates leave the small municipal authorities mainly, which, as a result, are no longer able to properly carry out the mandatory tasks conferred on them by the law. This was highlighted by Mrs Péter Boros, President of the MKKSZ, Vice-President of the Trade Union Cooperation Forum, when she proposed a series of strikes due to unsustainable conditions. According to some reports, the exodus of civil servants could put the parliamentary elections in jeopardy next year, especially in smaller settlements. It seems that the government does not care that basic public services are becoming increasingly less accessible mainly in small settlements, and that makes the people living there second-class citizens in their own country. I therefore ask the Honourable Secretary of State whether they can perceive the problem in small settlements because of the unfair wages of public servants. Also, what are you planning to do in order to reverse migration, do you accept the demands of interest representatives? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2017-12-04-90	Thank you, Congressman Ikotity. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2017-12-04-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In order to preserve the functioning of the municipalities, the government provides the resources from which the municipalities can carry out or provide the resources from which the municipalities can create the necessary part for their development, and, of course, the municipalities can also manage their own revenue. The third element of municipal funding for municipalities where own revenues and State aid are not sufficient for municipal operation is exceptional operating aid. Here, by the way, from year to year, we see that the number of municipalities using exceptional support is decreasing, even slowly. So the task funding basically achieved its goal and fulfilled its mission to provide the necessary resources for operation in all municipalities. You're mistaken about the salary increase for municipal workers, Congressman. The wages of municipal workers are determined by the municipalities themselves. In addition, since 2017, the salary base has been determined by the municipalities themselves, but it must be added that the wages established in the municipal system have long been not determined on the basis of the salary basis, but the municipalities, notaries and mayors have taken advantage of the possibility of diverting the wages of municipal workers. This hijacking can be based on work, quality of work and qualifications. Thus, local government leaders have the opportunity to provide personalised, individualised wages. By the way, I note that local government associations do not necessarily agree with the trade union's demand for uniform wage development for everyone. Once again, since 1 January, municipalities have had the opportunity to raise the salary base for municipal workers and determine wages on this basis. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-04-92	Thank you, Secretary of State Pogács. Dear Parliament, Imre Horváth, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior: "Are you taking measures to make sure that assistance is available quickly when you dial 112? It's an address. It's up to Congressman.
u2017-12-04-93	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, One of the priority projects in recent years has been the deployment of the 112 single emergency system. The whole point of the system is that emergency calls come from all over the country to two call centres, to Szombathely and Miskolc, and then to alert police, firefighters or ambulances based on the data recorded in these centres. Even at the time of the announcement of the plans, the project was subject to intense professional debates as to whether it was appropriate, on the basis of theoretical considerations, to centralise such emergency calls. [[13.20]] It's a matter of profession, let the profession decide. However, in the light of experience, it can be said that there are serious problems in the practical operation of the system. You can hear stories almost every week about the fact that through 112, you can only ask for help at the expense of a great deal of time. However, when the project was announced, one of the main arguments was that in these centres they would be able to identify exactly where the calls came from. On the other hand, the main complaint is that operators sitting on the other side of the country, who are obviously zero localities, demand accurate address and location from callers, which also causes time loss. Not only are the citizens calling for help, but also the representatives of the profession are concerned about the operation of the system. The Independent Trade Union of Professional Firefighters drew attention to the problems of the emergency system's operation in an open letter. In view of all this, I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether measures are being taken to ensure that assistance can be obtained quickly when dialing 112. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-12-04-94	Thank you, Congressman Horváth. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2017-12-04-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Since 1991, the 112 emergency number has been in place in the European Union, providing assistance free of charge in all Member States on the basis of uniform principles, the possibility of contacting emergency bodies providing assistance. From 1 April 2012, disaster management established an operational management system at territorial level, which fundamentally changed the on-call system at local level in previous years. On-call services at fire stations have been replaced by 22 operational controls at territorial level, providing an opportunity for efficient use of available equipment. There is no dispute that there are errors in the operation of emergency 112, but this system is still more secure than before. The 112 system is a digitally supported, multi-installed system, where people who call for help can get a live voice connection within 15 seconds. Irresponsible is any incontrovertibility that makes people in distress unsure that this emergency number is being called. The operation management system shows in real time the position, location, capabilities of the forces available, as well as the exact tracking and displaying of the events in progress by seconds, thus making them verifiable. The system is suitable for managing integrated disaster management activities, including complex management of aspects of the fire-fighting, civil protection and industrial security fields. For call recipients, disaster management has compiled a professional interview protocol, which is also recorded in the procedural order. Citizen's announcements are received by professionals, and at least those with secondary fire-fighting qualifications manage these operations management services. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-96	Thank you, Secretary of State Pogács. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli and Gergely Farkas, representatives of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. What are they waiting for in Kiskunhalas? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2017-12-04-97	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In Kiskunhalas, 100-150 meters from the homes, almost a thousand tons of hazardous waste have been rotting for many years. There are different compounds in plastic containers and smaller metal barrels, which also pose a potential risk to groundwater. Solvents, acids, paints, residues of various laboratory chemicals and medical waste are completely irregular, placed on the bare ground in the absence of any insulation. The barrels and containers placed on each other have fallen in many places, were damaged, and their contents spilled out. According to previous civilian measurements, contamination in the soil sample is higher than limit values. The test measured up to 11 times the limit value for 9 out of 14 metals. The total mineral oil content was 143 times the limit. Next to the site is the Lower Hotel Canal, which leads to Lake Harkai. The lake is a Natura 2000 area. The culprit is the former Bács-Reál Kft., which was authorised in 2010 to collect and transport dangerous substances. The following year, a significant fine of HUF 85 million was imposed on him, and they finally got away with it with a warning. The situation did not improve, so the company was banned at the end of the year. After a quick change of ownership, however, the waste remained. The situation is becoming increasingly critical and therefore a rapid solution is needed by the State before the surrounding natural values and possibly drinking water are contaminated through groundwater. Although the removal and disposal of hazardous waste is not small, further delays can lead to irreversible damage and duplication of costs. Dear Secretary of State, What are you waiting for in Kiskunhalas? Why don't you start the remediation until the process is irreversible? We have been saying the principle of "polluting" for a long time, and we are going to introduce it; however, the costs must not be delayed, and the costs must be added subsequently to the leaders of the former company. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-04-98	Thank you, Congressman Wolf. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs.
u2017-12-04-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. It also draws attention to a real problem here. During the month of August, our Ministry received a four-page detailed information on the measures taken and the measures being taken on this matter. First of all, I would like to mention and draw your attention to the fact that the number of official inspections of the pollutants listed by you is different. I don't know what material you've been working on, but based on the investigations ordered by the authorities, the situation is far less dramatic than you've outlined, acknowledging the untenable nature of the situation, by the way. But, as you pointed out in your question, on the basis of the principle of the polluter pays, I believe that the Hungarian State will act in an understandable and legitimate and legitimate manner in the case of, or legally acting in such a way as to first try to impeach the company or the owner of that land, obligate them to eliminate the damage caused here and to force them to bear the costs incurred. Given that there is no pollution situation that would require immediate, immediate intervention - if it were to be done on the basis of official measurements, of course, the authority would do so immediately - but since there are no such cases, we are working in the first place to make sure that the damage caused is paid for, that the person who actually created this situation, and after having this company as his manager is a living person, and after having the land owner, there is plenty of room for them to be ordered by the authority to remedy the most important threat. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-100	Thank you, Secretary Bitay. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of National Economy:. Why are poor settlements being punished? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2017-12-04-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to begin by thanking our ally, László Köteles, Mayor of Komlóska, for drawing our attention to this problem. Dear Secretary of State, The village management service helps disadvantaged settlements with a lack of institutions to provide basic services. The budget grants HUF 2.5 million a year to carry out the task, which each municipality has to complement with nearly this amount from its own resources. In 2015, it was possible for municipalities to replace the village buses used for the operation of the service, and 207 municipalities made use of the possibility. However, this year they were struck by lightning, that the Hungarian Treasury demanded significant amounts of state support for the village management service. The Hungarian State Treasury claimed that the task of the village manager was not carried out according to the operating licence of the village management service, because the transfer of newly acquired vehicles to the operating licence was not carried out. The registration number of the new village buses has not been announced in Hungarian, therefore they are not entitled to support for that time. [[13.30]] The Hungarian State Treasury and then the Ministry of National Economy were not willing to waive the repayment of state aid on a fair basis, despite the fact that no municipality knew that the Hungarian State Treasury kept a register of village buses and that the change had to be announced. Even though the aid was spent in good faith, in line with the objective, the Ministry was not interested. The late notification of the new village bus number resulted in a total loss of 120 million forints in municipalities, which is a small sum for the budget, but an incalculable amount for these small settlements, Mr Secretary of State. Why don't you find a solution to this situation? I trust you will find a solution to this, and I hope you will also say this in your response, which I thank you for.
u2017-12-04-102	Thank you, Congressman Ikotity. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2017-12-04-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The current budgetary laws clearly state that aid can only be used if the legislation is fully complied with by the beneficiary. You stated in your question that no municipality was aware that the Hungarian Treasury kept a register of village buses and that the change had to be announced. Well, the reality is that reporting village bus data is not a requirement for the Treasury, it's a professional regulation, it's a law, and it's a maintenance obligation. The municipalities should have been aware of this even before the treasury review, and the failure to provide data has unfortunately been violated by legislation for quite a long time. It is a fact that, unfortunately, dozens of settlements did not really comply with the regulations, and the Treasury revealed this deficiency. I must stress that this task for the Treasury was defined by the Parliament Act to examine the merits and legality of the use of central budget support. However, there is a solution to the problem: the government has already taken action, as it gives so-called exceptional support to the municipalities concerned to pay back this unlawful aid, so that a significant part of the municipalities have already been able to live. Here I call to the attention of the municipalities who have such a problem, to contact the Ministry of the Interior, and as an exceptional aid, you will receive this amount of aid to be recovered so that no municipality has any financing problems or difficulties in paying. I hope that this will solve this problem for the municipalities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-104	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State Tallai. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, notary, wishes to ask a question to the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office: why have they not increased their salary since their arrival in power, i.e. for eight years, and why have they not increased their salary for public service workers? It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister at the request of Minister Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, who is competent on the subject, by State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. You have the floor, Mr. Notary, Congressman.
u2017-12-04-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The MKSZ, a trade union representing Hungarian civil servants, civil servants and civil servants, has announced a series of strikes in the last few days, simply because of the fact that he has seen that his demands have not been met for a long time. They do not apply at the level of municipalities, at the level of the public service, in particular on the surface of culture or the social sphere. Within the framework of OKET, they had an initiative, which was about fighting for these necessary steps and waiting for the government's positive attitude; this, to my knowledge, did not happen, i.e. the positive attitude. Péter Péter Boros, President of the Trade Union, has therefore also written a letter to Viktor Orbán, and, to my knowledge, he has not yet received encouraging answers in this respect. In this sense, it is evident that the processes will start, because at the level of the municipalities, especially at the level of the small municipalities, the situation with regard to smaller settlements is, in practice, that if the elections were to take place this weekend, even the elections could not be held legally, because these municipalities are being eliminated because there are a lot of young people who have lost their jobs. Moreover, there are about two hundred thousand people in the public service, who have not been affected by salary increases in recent years, and 60 percent of the people working at the municipal level are in this situation. It is no coincidence, then, that the question of when they intend to commit themselves to a decent wage and salary development; that the HUF 38 650 salary base remained unchanged during their two consecutive periods of governance. When do you intend to meet your OKAY demands, OKEY's statements? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-12-04-106	Thank you, Congressman, notary. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2017-12-04-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I would like to remind you, Congressman, that when you were ruling, [[Nándor Gúr: Answer the question! Dr. István Józsa: There was a crisis!]] at the time of their government, a month's wages were taken from the public servants, and the real wages increased by about 2 percent during the entire period of the Gyurcsány, Bajnai government. Compared to the post-2010 period until the end of 2016, the average wage in Hungary increased by more than 20 percent. That is what you should consider when criticism is often made. [[Nándor Gúr: The question must be answered!]] Thus, real wages have increased significantly over the past period, including between 2010 and 2016, so that public sector employees' incomes are settled step by step by step by step by step by the government, in line with the economic performance, taking into account the budgetary equilibrium situation. The government started wage increases in areas it considered more urgent for public services, i.e. education, health care and social care. In the next wave, we started to settle the salaries of law enforcement and defence workers, and in some areas we generally increase wages through a multi-annual programme, such as the increase in the salary of health workers started in 2012 and the government decided that the sector would have a timetable for further wage measures until 2019. Thus, a substantial wage increase has also been made in the social and cultural spheres, contrary to the Member's statement. In order to improve the income situation, significant steps were taken in the area of public administration without raising the salary base, so we increased wages by 48 percent on average in the district offices and 31 percent on average at the county level of government offices. In addition to sectoral wage measures in recent years, the introduction and reduction of family benefits are, however, changes that have had a positive impact on almost all employees in Hungary. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] So it can be said that the increase in wages was steady, and in real terms the size I told you at the beginning of my thoughts, as opposed to your time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture: . 75 per cent of the price is due only to friends or to all Hungarian people? It's an address. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor.
u2017-12-04-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I mean, they say we shouldn't look at the teeth as a gift horse, but let's just do a little research. The 56 settlements of the constituency, where I live, won a total of HUF 61 million in state aid in the last tender. Those who don't appreciate the little one don't deserve the great one, but perhaps the next 30,000 inhabitants deserved more than the sum of five and a half hours of wealth of the Upstairs Polyhistorian. But let's go from South Somogy to Fejér counties, because there is one person here who receives such a gift from the Hungarian state alone as these 56 settlements combined. At the end of 2014, we discovered that there were over 100 hectares of land to be bought by an Italian farmer on the border of Labod, but the State exercised its pre-emptive right, some better pressure, and intervened. For the 105 hectares 135 million, the Hungarian state has become the owner of hip, hip, hurra, but the problem is that the NFA has already sold 41 hectares at the end of 2015 for HUF 51 million, and the remaining 60 hectares are now being permanently divorced; the problem is that, according to www.magyarország.hu's announcement, only 20 million forints. [[13.40]] So the state, quite rightly, recently buys 100 hectares of land for 135 million, and then very not correctly, but outrageously passes it on in two installments for 71 million. What's good for the state is a $60 million payment, it's a gift to someone the same size. Tell me, Secretary of State, what it takes to get land for about a quarter of a million instead of an original purchase price. Tell me who you love so much. Does the average Hungarian get a 75% discount? Will you be responsible for all this rather suspicious story? I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-04-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs.
u2017-12-04-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, If I simply wanted to answer your question, I would tell you to be kind, compare the hectares that the state purchased. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: We did it!]] - Well, then they've been very miscalculating. - and what the state sold because there's a difference between the two. You sold less than you bought. And the reason for the difference is that there was a part of the forest in that area, and as for you, I think it is obvious that a part of the forest should also take into account the stock of wood in the forest. So when I buy it in one piece, but I don't sell the wood part, I'm obviously gonna advertise it for less when I try to sell it. The Hungarian state has not been harmed in any way, we are working with official valuers. Public bids were launched on the basis of the prices established by the official valuers. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there were several bidders in these areas who bought this area at the end of the bid, and they have concluded a contract exactly, and there is still an area that is under suspension. So we don't know who's gonna be your final buyer, we're looking at who won the auction, dear congressman. [[Mrs. Loránt Violinist intervenes.]] I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that when the Hungarian State was involved in this legal transaction at all, as you remembered, we examined this case at Jobbik's request and lived with the right to pre-emption. While you have stated - not now, in a previous statement - that we have bought these areas too expensive and sold them at a cheaper price than this, I would also like to point out that you are not in a position to charge the State when exercising the right to pre-emption; you can do one thing: you want to buy it or not. You can't interfere with the negotiated purchase price. And by the way, I'm really glad that ever since Lajos Simicska was their sponsor, they've been so interested in land affairs. I find it interesting that after we have announced Mr. Simicska's lands, they are even more interested in land affairs. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-112	Thank you, Secretary Bitay. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter and R. Benedek Sallai, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior: "Does the government return the fire department to the municipalities? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor.
u2017-12-04-113	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. The Hungarian fire department operating under municipal supervision was one of the most effective in Europe, from which the Orbán government managed to sink the system in seven years' governance, that there is no fire department anymore, only disaster protection. For the record, that's ridiculous, and I think we're protecting the disaster, not averting it. And by the way, because of the result of this, the spectacular incompetence and the compulsive desire to centralize, the situation is that it regularly costs people their lives, and people's lives are at risk. On 22 October, a deadly housing fire took place in Szolnok, due to the inability of the 112 emergency call system imposed by the Orbán government on the country. Instead of the phone ringing at the fire department in case of fire, civilian dispatchers trained at the crash course first alerted the chimney sweeps that were also forced into disaster control, and only hours later, the firefighters came to the scene to call the police. That's when a man died. Such a case could not have happened in the event of the operation of a municipally supervised fire department with sufficient professional autonomy, Mr Secretary of State. Neither is the fact that they're trying to deny the case, lying that disaster control investigated the tragedy and filed a complaint while the prosecution doesn't know about it at all. Not about the investigation, not about the report. In the case of a municipal fire department, people should not be forced to call useless telephone numbers in case of trouble. It should not occur to firefighters to put on protective clothing that does not protect them from flames, nor to entrust firefighters to people without the necessary expertise. Minister, it's also wrong to take a government step that's wrong, and it's even worse if you notice that, obviously, and you're not doing anything. I would very much ask you not to refer to the operation management system at territorial level, not to tell a success story, but to declare whether these mistakes will finally be corrected so that this does not cost more people lives. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-12-04-114	Thank you, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. I call on Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás to respond.
u2017-12-04-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm rejecting all of your accusations, or whatever you're talking about here. First of all, no one was hiding the Szolnok case. [[Márta Demeter: Yes, yes!]] The County Department of Disaster Management has ordered an investigation, closed it, filed a complaint at the Central Detective Attorney General's Office, and we will be able to see exactly what happened in Szolnok after both the complaint and the investigation of the investigating prosecutor's office. And what you're talking about as a municipal fire department has nothing to do with reality. It was a municipal fire department, but the fire department has always been a hierarchy system, always controlled by the county and the National Fire Commands and disaster control. It was never possible, as you say, for the local fire marshals to decide with professional autonomy. Fire department's been following orders. They've always been following orders. The municipalities, when the fire department had a municipal reserve, complained that they had to raise most of the resources needed for the development, because the government had decided to do so; it was the system since 97, by the way. So the municipalities were freed from a significant financial burden because they had no professional management and had no custody over disaster management and fire department. It is not possible, since there is not a fire-fighting headquarters in the territory of a municipality, but in much larger areas; let us say, a city of ten thousand carries out a task in an area of 110 thousand. And what you are saying in clothing, honourable Member, is that firefighters work in the highest quality of clothing adopted in Europe. In the case of fire-fighting vehicles, they can work with fire-fighting trucks specifically designed for Hungarian fire-fighters, which have been developed during the development process with the development proposed by the fire-fighters. Obviously, other representatives of the LMP have already done so by lobbying for foreign investors, and obviously you are lobbying against Hungarian-made fire trucks for foreign purchases, and I reject all of this. [[Márta Demeter: What? You didn't answer the question!]] Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-116	Thank you, Secretary of State Pogács. Dear Parliament, We'll move on to immediate questions. István Gábor Harangozó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of State at the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question, "What about Lake Balaton?" It's an address. Mr Gábor István Harangozó has the floor.
u2017-12-04-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Dear House, During the autumn, we brought a very important presentation to the House for the people who love Balaton, the essence of which was that the beaches and campsites on the shore of Lake Balaton can only be developed so that they can be developed in a way that suits their original function, so that the beach remains a beach in Hungarian and the campsite remains a camp. We did this because last July the House adopted an amendment to the law, the essence of which was to remove from the Lake Balaton Act the safeguards that listed taxatives, the restrictions that must be respected in order to preserve the primary function of Lake Balaton, recreational services and environmental values in a sustainable way. These were followed by extremely worrying processes. It was possible to hear that Lőrinc Mészáros bought the company that operated most of the campsites on the shore of Lake Balaton, as well as camping closures, and recently, which is almost insane: Siófok's symbol, the golden beach is being destroyed by an investor trying to build a huge yacht port in front of the golden beach. After all, in a land purchased on a beach, he pulled up the resorts and sold the apartments to the resorts by building a yacht port. Dear Minister, You can't expect anyone to take the shore of Lake Balaton away from the Hungarian people, can you? It is this golden beach port, which is 47 minutes by train from Budapest, where 70 percent of tourists go, who want to spend a small amount of money on holiday. [[13.50]] You can't, can you, Minister, that you want to serve all sorts of investor intentions and allow this yacht port to be built and thus take this area away from those who want to beach? Mr. Secretary, you're also going to prevent new resorts from being built at the campsites, aren't you? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-12-04-118	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2017-12-04-119	Thank you very much. Honourable Parliament! Dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for your question, which gives me the opportunity to brief Parliament briefly on the changes to the national spatial planning plan because, according to the Government's plan and intention, it will present a summary of three laws to Parliament tomorrow. This means the inclusion of a law in the plans for spatial planning of the agglomeration in Budapest, the Balaton Act and the national spatial planning plan. We are proposing to the Parliament, representing the government, to begin this debate and to end it in February. It will therefore be possible to negotiate, to discuss, or to discuss, the dispute between the factions, or in connection with, this law. We've talked to 500 partners over the past two years. In essence, our proposal is not only formal, but also substantive, about the need not only to include three laws in one law with a view to closing and clarifying the construction rules, but also to digitise procedures and access to basic maps in full in order to reduce bureaucracy. With regard to your question, I would like to stress that, according to the Government's intention and position, Lake Balaton belongs to everyone. All public goals that have so far been achieved over the past decades must also be pursued in the following areas. The purpose of the spatial planning law will be to reduce the efforts where personal business aspects override the objectives of the community and the community's aspects. In response to your specific question, the campsite remains, the Lake Balaton remains accessible to everyone. There will be no negative change in this respect in the law, and there will be even clearer and clearer wording in the regulatory vision of Lake Balaton. There are still a number of items on the agenda. We'll have a chance to discuss this in legislative terms from tomorrow. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-04-120	Thank you, Minister. The congressman has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2017-12-04-121	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, Minister, you have not supported our proposal on the grounds that it will be put before this House. The earlier promise was to be made before the House in November. I am very pleased that this will happen in the course of tomorrow, and that Parliament will be able to address this issue in this term and to make a decision. But, Minister, this question is now under approval, and it must be decided in the days before the government office in Veszprém. I really don't want to see anyone say, "Well, yes, if this law had been passed sooner, it would have been possible to prevent it, but unfortunately, we're out of time." Therefore, Minister, this is your responsibility. Please do everything you can to ensure that this investment, especially before such a law is passed, is not subject to favourable treatment. If the law is born properly, as you have promised, then it will never happen again. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I'm just afraid of him, because it's the experience that you have important oligarchs, especially when it comes to Lőrinc Mészáros. [[The president's ringing again.]] They're overwriting public intent. I hope not this time. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2017-12-04-122	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2017-12-04-123	Thank you very much. Your Honour, my fellow Member. First of all, I would like to stress that according to the government's intention and plan, the campsite will not become a hotel or a residential park. This is what we are making a clear and clear regulatory proposal. I believe that if someone is familiar with the Balaton Act in force since 2000 and the 2008 amendment, then the current legislation in force does not exclude these areas entirely. We have therefore agreed with the Balaton Association, and we have the full support of the Balaton coastal municipalities in order to keep the camping camping, keep the beach accessible and usable for everyone, and the beach stays. In the case of Siófok, I will find the head of the Government Office of Veszprém County and I will take action to ensure that the public goal is met; although I cannot obviously influence the specific case as a minister, because the government must act in accordance with the law. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-04-124	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: Why does the Government not support his proposals confirming Jobbik's Hungarian economy? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to the urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-12-04-125	I'll wait for Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2017-12-04-126	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Egyed, a representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: Why do you not want the guilty to be punished? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Pál Völner as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Zsolt Egyed.
u2017-12-04-127	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, On 29 November 2017, the Nyíregyházi Tribunal discussed a very serious case of animal cruelty, known as Philip's dog. It was thought that there would finally be an example here in such a way that such cases would never happen again. Unfortunately, that was not the case, because the perpetrators were not permanently sentenced to 4-4 months of detention, and the entire public was outraged. But let's keep going. Again, last week's harvest: this Saturday, December 2, Kazincbarcika, in a resort area, a chained dog was beaten to death with noble simplicity. It's all over the Internet, and it's practically nothing. Obviously, I did the right thing, since the unsub's identity was revealed, and I filed a report with the police. We're very excited about what's going to happen in this case. However, what I wanted to say is that none of these cases would have happened before, and they wouldn't have happened again, if you had the minimum of good intentions, that if you hadn't thought of it, you would have accepted Jobbik's legislative proposals, in which we wanted to tighten up the penalty for perpetrators of such cases. That didn't happen. You are constantly and consistently rejecting these proposals. Unfortunately, I can draw two conclusions from this today, so by the end of the cycle: Fidesz openly stands up to the animal torturers, thus counting on their vote; and the other consensus is that Fidesz specifically regards Hungarian animal protection organisations as its enemy. Dear Secretary of State, I think, and I have spoken so many times in this Parliament on this matter, that they can finally say something that can be reassuring to everyone, because you are constantly dissuading me in this matter, constantly deflecting the issue of reality. People want justice, and so that such shameful cases cannot happen in the future. Thank you, and I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-04-128	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State for Justice.
u2017-12-04-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, there are several exchanges of letters and debates on this subject here in Parliament. However, the relationship between the Ministry and animal welfare organisations is good. It should be pointed out that the rightful need for animal rights and good-feeling citizens is for animals to be adequately protected. However, the problems are much more complex than you could solve here by cutting a hussar by tightening the penal code, as you know that the basic case is two years of animal cruelty and, in a qualified case, three years of imprisonment. In fact, the tightening of the criminal code allowed us to do so in the previous government cycle, which regulates animal cruelty in specific legal terms, significantly increased the rate of imprisonment that could be imposed compared to previous regulations, and, as I said, allows three years of imprisonment in the case of qualified cases. By the way, there are court precedents where two years of imprisonment has been imposed. If we compare it to the fact that there are also forms of manslaughter where five years of imprisonment can be imposed, then if we compare the three years with the animals, then I think we have to admit that it is indeed strict regulation that is in Hungary. It is very unfortunate to make such a question a political issue, since the animal protection organisations themselves have accepted that there is no problem with the content of the criminal code or with the measure of punishment, but that the judicial practice adapts to it more slowly, and that there are many branches of this area - education, education, the development of official practices - in which we really need to move forward, and I hope that the past few years have proved so, as there has not been such a degree of imprisonment before; there is also a sharp judicial practice. [[14.00]] I will also mention some cases in the next answer. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-04-130	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The congressman has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2017-12-04-131	Dear Secretary of State, Slowly adapting to judicial practice is not a consolation to these animals, which are thus destroyed, nor to the animal defenders; we, by the way, would have the opportunity to help a little bit in the system of judicial practice, for example, by what I propose and submit continuously, so that there is no possibility of a suspended prison sentence in proven cases of severe animal cruelty, so that the perpetrators are given prison sentences. And the other part, Mr. Secretary, is that you referred to him as a prison sentence. Then tell me a statistic. I'm interested in how many prison sentences have been imposed by the court in such cases, and how this can be proportionate to the number of complaints made in such cases. I think the number will be so minimal that you can't even say it, and that is the problem here, Mr. Secretary of State, that you are not taking these questions seriously, which is only a matter of will, and that could be changed here in the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-04-132	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2017-12-04-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is not for the first time that we are debating fundamental things here in Parliament that the court is an independent jurisdiction, and the legislature itself has no authority to take over his role and practically force judges to make judgments without judicial consideration. But this is the principles set out in the Fundamental Law and other places, which have lived for centuries, and are inherent in civil democracies, even if it is difficult for you to accept. I promised some precedents that the courts had set. You mentioned that four or four months of detention were imposed by the courts in this birch church case, and we're talking about prison detention, so it's not suspended. We have a verdict in Hajdúszoboszló, where we are talking about six months in prison, at the Pécs Tribunal, a second sentence in Pécs also imposed a six-month sentence, and, as I said, the Pápai District Court has already imposed two years in prison. So I think that the direction of judicial practice is certainly welcome and meets the expectations of animal rights workers. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-04-134	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél and Márta Demeter, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question by saying: "The Orbán Government and Reality II." The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-12-04-135	Mr. President, we'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you.
u2017-12-04-136	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office an immediate question:.Department bonds: Who is behind the money laundering network? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Csaba Dömötör State Secretary for his response to the urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-12-04-137	I will not accept it, Mr President, and I will wait for Antal Rogán to have the courage to come in next time and try to answer the questions in person. Thank you.
u2017-12-04-138	Thank you very much. The Minister must reply at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of LMP, wishes to ask an immediate question... [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, I'm coming forward. István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "Local democracy without institutions? What kind of municipality is this? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás as a response to an urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Minister for his answer personally.
u2017-12-04-139	I'll take it.
u2017-12-04-140	You have the floor, Congressman István Ikotity.
u2017-12-04-141	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The concept of democracy of Fidesz-KDNP no longer includes the idea of local government. In recent years, local governments have been gradually evacuated, rights, opportunities, resources and institutions have been taken away from the settlements. The local government's margin of manoeuvre has been radically reduced. Education, culture and health matters that concern them are now hardly relevant to them. Local governments have been reduced to local representatives of the will of the central power. This is what they did in education: they took schools from the settlements. Local communities, local leaders, parents, teachers and students now have no influence on what is going on in their school. The principals are also forced from above to the faculty, even if they oppose the decision of the EMMI. Universities are not allowed to operate freely, chancellors, consistors are placed around their necks, and similar facts are emerging. Dear House, The Fidesz-KDNP itself lies against one of the most important principles of Christian democracy, subsidiarity. According to genuine Christian democrats, all decisions must be made at the lowest level where appropriate expertise is available. We fully agree with this principle, so the LMP and the New Beginning programme states that the legal and material means of real self-determination must finally be given to the municipalities. What kind of municipality is Fidesz-KDNP doing? How will democracy be without institutions? According to LMP and New Start, it doesn't. If people living in settlements and districts cannot interfere with what is going on in their institutions, there is no democracy. Secretary of State, what do you think of democracy?
u2017-12-04-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2017-12-04-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Fidesz-KDNP, the government is committed to running the municipal system, the local government. We are committed to enabling residents of settlements to pursue their own interests to the farthest extent in the development of the settlement, in the services provided in the settlement. The accepted Mötv. The law on municipalities, but even the Fundamental Law, strengthens and ensures this intention. Each Hungarian municipality chooses a local government, every Hungarian settlement chooses a mayor, and the parliament provides the necessary resources for these settlements, these municipalities, and the municipal system through the budget. A significant part of the municipalities agreed to change the division of tasks, and there were even a number of requests from the municipalities in recent years and even in decades regarding the maintenance of public education institutions, that if the State maintained the funding system in which the government did not provide even 50 percent of the resources required for the maintenance of schools, in which case the schools could not be maintained by the municipalities; professional supervision was clearly not maintained by the municipalities, and so many small settlements were forced to get rid of their schools, and schools were closed. It was therefore necessary to achieve equal opportunities in schools and to ensure the quality of education that education should be subject to state maintenance. What you said about universities is obviously incomprehensible at the municipal level, because universities have never been operated by the municipalities and have never been maintained. The tasks of the local government are perfectly regulated by the municipal law and the Fundamental Law, and I would like to stress once again that the necessary resources are also provided by the budget to the municipalities for both operation and development. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-12-04-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congressman. [[14.10]]
u2017-12-04-145	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, We're committed, we're committed, we're committed. That's what he said, but those words are entirely in conflict with reality and facts. Take a look. Since 1990, spending on municipalities has been declining steadily. In the beginning, 17 percent of the budget was the part that the municipalities decided to use it for. Today, that amount has fallen to less than 3 percent. So you take away resources from the municipalities, just as you take away the institutions from the municipalities, the same way you take away legal opportunities from the municipalities. Mr State Secretary, these facts show that you are not the committed supporters of local decision-making and local authorities, but the opposite. The facts show this, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-12-04-146	Thank you, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also available to the Secretary of State.
u2017-12-04-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Your speech and the budgetary comparison show what today's speeches on the operation of the municipalities have all reflected that you do not understand or understand how the municipal system works and what municipal funding is. If you're looking for funding that was flowing through funding, for example, in the case of firefighters, when a municipality is tasked with carrying out a state task, you book it yourself, and then this task is entirely managed by the state, if that's what you think it is municipal freedom, I think you're very wrong. Freedom of decision by the municipality is that the municipalities have the resources to operate, develop, develop, establish community platforms, to help the communities join together, and to provide the necessary resources to do so. And I've got these. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-04-148	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, József Kovács, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[On Dr. József Kovács' signal:]] It says yes. Mr József Kovács has the floor.
u2017-12-04-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Fidesz-KDNP's policy reflects our commitment to both improving the quality of patient care and improving the working conditions and financial appreciation of health workers. Unfortunately, we also have to say that the socialists have withdrawn 400 billion forints from health care during their governance. It should also be said that there was a time in Hungary when the collapse threatened to save itself. Between 2008 and 2010, no new ambulances were ordered, and virtually no substantial preparations were made for this. Thanks to this, the rescue car park has grown old, most of the vehicles have been in poor condition, putting safety in jeopardy. In 2010, we had to face the situation above, but thanks to Fidesz-KDNP's policy, the biggest development since the regime change was the development of some HUF 500 billion. We can say that in recent years one of the greatest developments of all time has also been made at the OMSZ, new machinery, instruments have been acquired, rescue management has been reorganized, new rescue stations have been built, new ambulances have been purchased. Thanks to the above measures, the Hungarian rescue service will finally be able to perform its work in more modern and dignified conditions, and the improvements will enable the time to be shorter until the ambulance arrives. Fidesz-KDNP has always dealt with the human resources issue of healthcare workers as a priority. Over the past five years, given the country's economic capacity, we have done everything we can to improve the wages of healthcare workers, including those working in the emergency services. Dear Secretary of State, How is the future of emergency services coming along?
u2017-12-04-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-12-04-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you recall, in 2010, the government inherited a condition that the ambulance service hadn't acquired ambulances in years. There were two reasons for that. One is the constant austerity in socialist health care and the other is that they were also prepared for a conscious privatisation, because they wanted everything in health care to be private. So they hoped that if the rescue was compromised, the quality of patient transport could be privatized. In contrast, Fidesz-KDNP has taken radical action. On the one hand, in terms of the total budget for the rescue service, on the other hand, in terms of the wages of rescue workers and, on the third, in terms of the state of ambulances and rescue stations. As a result, we have not only managed to stop the aging of ambulances from year to year, not only in spite of the constantly aging ambulances, but also in the form of new purchases, since 500 new ambulances have already been purchased, they have now decreased to 6.9 years, half as much as the average age of Hungarian cars. The average age of ambulances has decreased by 20 percent in recent years, thanks to fresh, new, zero-kilometer ambulances. The total budget for the rescue service is growing from HUF 22 billion in 2010 to HUF 39.9 billion next year, i.e. 76 percent increase in the rescue service budget in recent years. Thirty-one new rescue stations have been built in order to reach every citizen, every patient in Hungary within 15 minutes, and there are even settlements where we will be building new ones in the future instead of the old rescue station in bad condition, such as Győröt, Zalaegerszeg or Tabon. There were also rescue station renovations, 104 such rescue stations were renovated. So the 483 new ambulances can also serve at this 104 refurbished rescue stations. From this year onwards, and from 2017 onwards, 193 new ambulances will be purchased. 107 have already arrived, they are made in Hungarian factories, 86 are being manufactured and transported. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-04-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congressman.
u2017-12-04-153	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I would like to point out that the staff of the emergency services are doing their job at a very high professional level, in close cooperation with both primary and hospital staff. It is a pleasure that their sacrifice is also a matter of respect and respect from the government. I ask Mr Secretary of State - we hope that the government can continue its work - so that we do not deviate from the path we have begun, that renovations, the construction of new rescue stations continue, and that we try to improve both on the ground and on the air and the transport of patients every day. Thank you for your answer. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-04-154	Thank you, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also possible by the Secretary of State.
u2017-12-04-155	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, As I mentioned, we also tried to improve the situation of rescue workers in wages. The 26-and-a-half percent increase last year, the 12 percent increase this year. In fact, another 10 percent will be held in January next year. Thus, overall, between September 16 and November 18 the wages of rescue workers will increase by 67 percent. In addition, we are in the process of public procurement worth HUF 1.1 billion, which also provides new, high-quality work clothes. We hope that at the beginning of next year, the rescue workers can get this, because they have been waiting for a very long time, and they deserve to be able to improve their working conditions. Thanks to this wage increase programme, the basic salary of a paramedic rose from HUF 91 000 to HUF 183 000 and the gross average wage from HUF 173 thousand to HUF 263 000, and the basic salary of a paramedic rose from 156 thousand to 469,000 and its gross average salary from HUF 314 thousand to HUF 569 700. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-04-156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: Antal Rogán has been exposed again: he had the referendum campaign run through offshore! Or, what will be the consequences of ODEX Kft's case? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-12-04-157	If the Minister can give you a meaningful answer, yes.
u2017-12-04-158	Thank you very much. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor. [[14.20]]
u2017-12-04-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In 2016, there was an invalid and unsuccessful national referendum, which had a strong enough response in its campaign that the government spent more than HUF 15 billion on the campaign. Just a quick head count: this is about 15 years of support for opposition parties with opposition factions. This is a good example of how well this competition went. And then it didn't even include the bus commercials that we were talking about. In the last two weeks, the buses were flooded with commercials. I looked into this, and in nearly a year, I was able to force nearly half a dozen lawsuits from the government on how much it cost, who did it and on what conditions. All the more so, because since then, the Hungarian Parliament has slowly banned any means for the opposition to appear in public areas, and it is even a matter of debate whether it is a criminal offence for any party to make any political advertisement for companies or not. Well, from that point of view, we've come to an interesting conclusion. One is that the Rogán Antal Prime Minister's organization has used an offshore company to promote the government's position well enough in the migrant campaign, and it also turned out that this company received a 50 percent discount on these advertisements in a 100% state-owned company. I would like to ask Minister whether the Hungarian Government was aware of this, knowingly and knowingly concluded a contract with offshore companies for the assignment of a state task, by entrusting a ministry with a 100% state-owned company to an offshore company. The other is, do you think the 50 percent discount is okay? My most important question, Minister: how much money did the Prime Minister's Office pay ODEX to carry out this activity? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-12-04-160	I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2017-12-04-161	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The Government welcomes the new rules of order, because the Member said that he would accept it if I could respond if I could give a satisfactory answer. It's a new order of business or a new house-to-house direction. We appreciate that. [[Noise, interruptions.]] but, of course, we accept it because we are responding to Members in all circumstances, even if it is insufficient or insufficient for Members. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] What I would like to underline, ladies and gentlemen, is that the particular feature of the advertising market is that it can be advertised where there are advertising platforms, and it can be advertised on advertising platforms that function in the public or private areas of Hungary, and that it is clearly possible to buy from the advertising company which has such facilities. I have learned so much about this case in preparation for the current questions, that this media advertising company has been operating on the Hungarian market for ten years, and according to the information available, it does not have an offshore background, but has a Luxembourg background. This is a company registered in Luxembourg. [[Lajos Korózs: Totally different, right.]] Since it is a Member State of the European Union and Hungary has been a member of the European Union since 2004 and the economies within the European Union are free to work in Hungary in the interest of free movement of capital and the free movement of services, I find it a little strange that the socialists are now talking about this. Even so, dear fellow Members... [[Lajos Korózs: Then he could have been a Cypriot.]] My colleague, former State Secretary Korózs, is likely to suffer from an abnormal memory loss, given that in December 2009 the Ministry of Environment and Water ordered EU advertisements from this company, the government of the Socialists at the time of the European Union elections, ODEX Kft. In 2009-2010, the companies related to the Socialists made a significant number of orders to ODEX Kft., but if that was not enough, the owner of Népszava, László Puch, the cashier of MSZP ordered 190 advertisements from this company this year. What's your question, Congressman? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-162	Thank you, Minister. Congressman Tamás Harangozó has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2017-12-04-163	Thank you very much for the floor. Minister, my question remains the same. If you're interested in where László Puch is putting his money, I suggest you call him, maybe you'll reach him before I do. We are talking about state money here, Minister, and a 100% state-owned Volan company, of which there are seven units in the country, there is no market or competition. Between these two, I'll ask you again, Minister, why you have to put such a company in, I didn't get an answer to that. And that offshore company, Minister, you know best: it's not just about the tax avoidance part, it's about who owns this company. So, if you're so confident, Minister, that this is not an offshore company, so it's transparent, and we know who's behind it, name it, be nice to know who's standing at ODEX Kft. behind it, and you'll find out it's not an offshore company. The register of companies cannot be found other than the delivery agents. I look forward to your reply, Minister.
u2017-12-04-164	Thank you, Congressman. The Minister has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2017-12-04-165	Thank you very much. I would only briefly confirm to my fellow Members that companies established in the European Union are free to enter into business. As far as I know, the Socialist Party has not yet put its flag on the restriction of services, capital or labour in the European Union. So, as you use a service as a Socialist Party from an economic company in the European Union, I think it is also possible for other political parties and other organisations. So you can use services from a company like this, until the government doesn't. I find this strange and interesting, but the socialists think interestingly. As regards advertising platforms, I would like to say once again that this is the largest media sales company in Hungary. It is likely that when the advertisements were given up, the advertiser was confronted with this, and in Hungarian it was not possible to circumvent it, since it has such capacity. I believe that the Ministry of Customers has acted with the care of a good farmer when it comes to using public funds. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-166	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, János Volner, a representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. How does the government intend to resolve the shortage of labour? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Congressman says yes. Mr János Volner has the floor.
u2017-12-04-167	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Recently, surprising statements have been made by various businessmen linked to the Prime Minister, and they have been in the press. One of these was the statement made by Viktor Orbán's friend Sándor Demján. He recently spoke as the president of the largest enterprise organization, that he suggested that the government should implement a reduction of 350 thousand people in public administration and the public sector for saving reasons, as he described these 350 thousand people as a huge task force. They must be disposed of by the Hungarian state. I ask Minister whether there are various discussions on this in the framework of state reform, different deals, professional consultations and preparatory processes in the background. The other question concerns the fact that another businessman - he is a good friend of Viktor Orbán, we know him well, his name is István Garancsi, owner of the Videoton Football Club and many other large companies - talked about the need to bring large numbers of Indonesian, Pakistani, Vietnamese and other citizens into the Hungarian labour market. It is also called Attila Paár, the gentleman who, as head of the company owned by István Garancsi, mentioned such things among others. In fact, recently another company, the head of the Market, made a similar statement as a press release. My question is: is there any intention on the part of the government that there will be any discussion in the background about the introduction of a large number of foreign migrant workers in the next cycle? The issue is only justified by the existence of 20,000 legal migrants with residence obligations. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-04-168	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2017-12-04-169	Thank you very much. My fellow Member, Volner, whose work I highly appreciate and prepare, as regards the financial affairs and positions of the Hungarian private enterprise sector and the Hungarian oligarch world, unfortunately I do not know what to do and what to say in which company I am not as prepared as you are. It is interesting that you in Jobbik consider it important to have close relations with this world. We deal in public affairs and public service. In this spirit, I can report to you, Mr President, on behalf of the Government, that, for the first time in 27 years, we have achieved that the number of people seeking work in Hungary has fallen below 200,000, which is a huge result and a common result for the country. There are 183,000 registered jobseekers in the country in the autumn of 2017. We started at 450-500 thousand, and then we didn't talk about unregistered. [[14.30]] This is also supported by the fact that unemployment is at least 4 per cent or to a decisive extent below it. There are a lot of areas in the country with 2-3 percent unemployment, which, in fact, is no longer social unemployment. I agree with the suggestion that in the coming years the challenges of the labour market are important issues in Hungary. As a solution, the government does not think about any introductions. As a solution, both in Hungary and in the European Union, the government takes the view that Hungarian young people, Hungarian families, should be supported to work here, to start a family and to have a Hungarian future for their children. So we represent the need to support Hungarian families to have as many children as possible, and to give the children a job, a job that they can manage. We are in this position, rejecting all introductions. I would add that we are also introducing provisions in the labour market that exclude this. This, of course, carries with it the fact that Hungarian labour reserves must be explored. There are counties in the country, Borsod, Békés, the southern part of Bács county, the southern part of Somogy or Baranya county, where there is still a workforce reserve. This can be discovered through infrastructure and training programmes, industrialisation. I'll be happy to answer that for the next one minute. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-04-170	Thank you, Minister. Mr. János Volner also has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2017-12-04-171	Mr. Secretary. Our concern is thorough. Well, you've planted 19 thousand migrants through settlement government bonds! Yes, this information has been in the press, 19 thousand people have arrived in Hungary through settlement government bonds. More than a thousand people came with protective status. 20,000 people, 20,000 migrants, were deployed, while, by the way, 600,000 people left their country because of the low wages, these low unemployment figures were due to this in a small part. But I will return to this, Minister. After all, your boss is also friends with Demján Sándor, István Garancsi, and you also have a good relationship with your companies, and you provide them with large orders. I'm asking you if you're planning to take down hundreds of thousands of people from the public sector. Are there government background work on this, are there processes hidden from public opinion, and will concrete plans be found after the elections? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-04-172	Thank you very much. The Minister shall also have a rejoinder.
u2017-12-04-173	Thank you very much for prioritising that, after the elections, we will have the opportunity to answer that question. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Let the prophet speak of it.]] This may also be an excessive lack of confidence from an opposition group leader. If it is in the event that voters encourage us to continue our work, or we are entrusted with continuing our work, then I am one of those within the government who think that there are people in the public sector, especially in public administration, in the field of public service, who can do more valuable work in the private economy. Today, for example, in Budapest, where there is labour demand, I believe and believe that it is easy to find a job. How many people, how many people? About 1 million people are directly supported by the Hungarian state, which is a high proportion compared to all employees. In Germany, I would say only proportions, 8-10 percent, in other V4 countries 12-13 percent are directly dependent by the state. This practically means that the Hungarian 20 percent seems a little too much, beyond any doubt. But it's a professional issue that needs to be dealt with professionally. I welcome you, Congressman, to keep track of the number of people coming into the country. You can do this because very few people come. In France, there are 8.5 million adult men with immigrant backgrounds and Muslims. Compared to this, the inclusion of a thousand people in Hungary should not be a problem for this country. And 19 thousand people lent money to the country; I think it is right for them to come to the one they lend money to. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-04-174	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of National Development an immediate question:. What does the government do for the digital competitiveness of the Hungarian economy? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Ákos Kara to respond to an urgent public mission. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[On the signal of László Szászfalvi:]] It says yes. Mr László Szászfalvi has the floor.
u2017-12-04-175	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The development of technology has recently reached incredible proportions, and we have not even dreamed of many of our daily products at the end of the last century. Development does not stop, digitalization becomes part of our daily lives. The acquisition and enhancement of digital skills gives the country more qualified workforce. This can contribute to increasing Hungary's competitiveness in the short term. This, given the IT trends of recent decades, will certainly benefit us in the long term. The Christian Democratic People's Party considers the 21st century important. We ask the government to inform us about the progress of projects related to digital development at all levels, including from time to time. Among other things, we asked the government about the development of digital skills, the development of the local government's IT system, the introduction of electronic personal income tax and the introduction of the electronic health service space, and the results speak for themselves in all areas. Dear Secretary of State, Of course, we should not forget that access to the digital world is necessary for Hungarian people. To this end, Fidesz-KDNP reduced sales tax on Internet services to 18% from 1 January 2017 and 5 percent from 1 January 2018. In addition, we consider it a priority to be at the forefront of all new generation development, thus ensuring a stable growth in Hungary and reducing our external vulnerability. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State what the government is doing to ensure that Hungary is a competitive digital economy here in the heart of Europe. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári and Dr. Attila Tilki applaud.]]
u2017-12-04-176	Thank you, Congressman Szászfalvi. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Ákos Kara.
u2017-12-04-177	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, The government's aim is to make Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses, the winners of digitalization, and to provide all the support for this. In view of this, two years before the EU deadline, by the end of 2018, we agreed to make the super-fast internet affordable for every household that needs it by wire or wirelessly. With 230 thousand households we have already completed and further improvements are scheduled. In March this year, we launched applications to support digitalisation for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises worth nearly HUF 65 billion, and we can apply for IT tools and services even these days. In fact, in the framework of this proposal, successful IT companies can request support for access to the foreign market. Within the framework of the program, we started consulting with the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry on digitalization, and the success of the program shows that we have reached 6 thousand companies instead of the 3 thousand companies originally planned. We can only move forward in the digital economy, honourable Members, if we have a skilled workforce. This issue is also a priority for the government, and we would like to help 260 thousand people by the end of 2020 to acquire the basic digital knowledge needed to work. I respectfully report to the House that, during this programme, nearly 100,000 people have been successfully involved in the training, and on the other hand, we have launched the programme for the future! This is a program for computer training with a narrow understanding. As a result, 10 percent more students started their university studies in this way this autumn. Honourable Congressman, These concrete measures have brought concrete results, but we have a number of goals, a number of plans that we would like to continue to work towards achieving our goals. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-04-178	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Szászfalvi shall have the right to a one-minute rejoinder.
u2017-12-04-179	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary of State. We see and see that digital development is extremely fast and unstoppable. For this reason, I think it is our fundamental task for society as a whole to achieve two important conditions as soon as possible and effectively as possible. One of the conditions we've already talked about is access. Obviously, it has a technical, technological and economic, financial side. With this we also help and support Hungarian people, Hungarian families, Hungarian elderly people and young Hungarians. Another condition is the availability and development of skills. [[14.40]] Numerous programmes have been launched, mentioned by the Secretary of State, and there are numerous programmes in progress that I too am experiencing. We support the government's efforts in this direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-180	Thank you, Congressman Szászfalvi. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Secretary of State.
u2017-12-04-181	Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your consideration. I would like to point out, indeed, that we will reduce the VAT on internet services to 5 per cent from 1 January 2018. In addition to what has just been said, allow me to reiterate the importance of network development and internet access. The digital economy can only develop if we are among the first to introduce the latest technologies. In the 4G mobile-wide band, we are among the five best in the world every month, and the government aims to introduce the next generation, the 5G mobile technology, among the first to be introduced by Hungary, supported by the market, the government and the joint coalition of universities and research institutes. Honourable Congressman, I ask for my reply to be accepted, and we continue to ask for the support of the parliamentary factions in achieving the government's objectives of digitalisation. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-182	Thank you, Secretary of State, Ákos Kara. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask you, Congressman, do you accept the identity of the responder?
u2017-12-04-183	Thank you very much, I accept.
u2017-12-04-184	You have the floor, Congressman Ákos Hadházy.
u2017-12-04-185	Thank you very much. The government is carrying on with quite a lot of money a process called consultation, but actually rather manipulation, which seems to be the real purpose of propaganda, no one seems to think seriously that people have been asked, because no one really believes that they should prove how many people have sent back the response sheets. Two months ago, I asked the Prime Minister's Office how this process was going to happen. The Prime Minister's Office wrote back that the letters arrive at the post office, they X-ray them at NISZ Zrt., open them, and then they count these sheets at Kopin-Datorg, tell them what answers they have. I then wrote a letter to all three companies and asked them to let me take a look at this process, both for the post office and for the other two companies, and then after they told me that I had to ask the Prime Minister's office for permission, I did, and for a month nothing happened. Then, after I asked in Parliament to do so, I was allowed to do so under very extreme circumstances, but only at two companies, NISZ Zrt. and at the premises of Kopint-Datorg, I could look into the process, not at the post office. This is important because at the other two sites I couldn't really find or find embarrassing things, on the one hand the numbers didn't match, on the other hand they couldn't show me records where I could see how many sheets came back on the other day. Then, three days later, on Saturday, Fidesz said that it would publish postal records, so a detailed record of how much was received on the day of the 1848 postcode. He hasn't done that since. I also asked the Prime Minister's Office once again on the following Monday that I would like to take a look at this process, I would like to take a look at it, and since then I have not received an answer. My professional question as a post office or a post office supervisor: why are you not allowed to view this process? Thank you very much.
u2017-12-04-186	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-12-04-187	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Parliamentary democracy is a strange thing, in fact, everything is allowed in Parliament under this framework, it is possible to ask questions, it is possible to question, challenge, weaken the government's position as a opposition politician, it is sometimes possible to make false statements - however unfair it is, but it happens - and it is possible to conduct opposition behaviour that weakens the government's intentions. However, I do not think that it is possible that more than two million people's intentions and will should be very consciously undermined, questioned and undermined under the pretext of parliamentary democracy on an issue in which this action or consultation was initiated by the government. With questions disguised as professionalism, Mr President, 2.3 million people, nearly 2.5 million people, question their opinions, decisions and contributions. I do not believe that this will help parliamentary democracy to prevail and advance. Otherwise, I must repeat that the production, sending out of the consultation questionnaires, receiving, processing of responses, according to the specified working order, has been done and done. Security screening, machine demolition, selection, processing of incoming sheets shall be carried out in accordance with the legal requirements and in accordance with the data protection rules. I am convinced that the bodies involved have acted accordingly. If you don't mind, Congressman, I'll keep going. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Hadházy has the opportunity to answer back.
u2017-12-04-189	Thank you very much. I can tell Mr State Secretary that if you really cared about the alleged two million or, as you said later, 2.5 million, then somewhere you said 2.3 million respondents, you would answer, and even if there were parliamentary democracy, you would answer. I asked you why I couldn't look at the records at the post office, or why I couldn't look at the arrival process at the post office. I can tell you two things. One is that you didn't want to show this evidence process because you knew very well that the numbers wouldn't fit. The other option - because there are only these two - was that they wanted to forge these numbers, but there was no one who would do this forgery, because it is very important that the post office will bill on the basis of postal records. And if someone commits to falsifying those records, then the account will also be false, and there will probably be people in the post office who are absolutely unsure that, say, you will still be in the government in May and are afraid that, in the event of counterfeiting, this will have criminal consequences. Thank you very much.
u2017-12-04-190	Thank you, Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the Secretary of State.
u2017-12-04-191	Thank you very much. 2.3 million people have responded, and I would like to put this on the record, so that the Member does not have any concerns about this. Congressman, I understand that a teaching in Werber [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy: Answer the question!]] According to him, it is essentially in his interest to weaken the government's position. We have given Congressman the opportunity to enter the premises where the questionnaires were processed with more than one person. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy: Not to the post office!]] The inns were open, they were fair, but you're wrong not to say you're making false accusations. On behalf of those who work there, I refuse to do so on behalf of the postal workers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-192	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Attila Tilki, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. How does the government help small settlements? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás as a response to an urgent public mission. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2017-12-04-193	Yes, thank you very much, I accept.
u2017-12-04-194	Congressman says yes. Then Congressman Attila Tilki will take the floor.
u2017-12-04-195	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As a Member of the Parliament of the 88 settlements of Szabolcs Főszabolcs, Bereg and Szatmár I know the daily problems of small settlements, which is why I consider it a good initiative that the Fidesz government has been providing support for winter fuel purchase for the last five years, supported by nearly four billion HUF this year by the Ministry of Interior. In this context, 2255 municipalities of less than five thousand inhabitants were supported, so mayors could spend their resources on buying firewood or coal to help those in need of help from the inhabitants of small settlements. Another aid provides support for the development of compulsory tasks, which was also supported by the Ministry of Interior. In 1701 settlements the settlements under the number of two thousand could apply for HUF 1.9 billion. [[14.50]] Among other things, municipalities could apply for the construction of sidewalks or the drainage of precipitation water, the renovation of public cemeteries and the energy modernisation of municipal buildings. Many settlements in my area have been able to replace, for example, the dead cooler of the worn-out cemetery with this support. It is a pleasure for many, many small settlements, which have less tax revenue due to their abilities, making it more difficult for them to develop their development, that the government with this source offers the opportunity to make long-awaited improvements. Dear Secretary of State, Will this tender continue to be very important for small settlements in the following year? Will we continue to help small villages and small settlements? [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2017-12-04-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Today there are significant differences in economic strength between municipalities and different municipalities in different regions of the country, and there are also significant differences in circumstances: there are more fortunate areas which, as a result of the recovery economy, have a significant own resource, and there are areas where this is still waiting for itself. But we can trust that the government's economic policy will have all the benefits of economic recovery throughout the country. Localities with little self-esteem and little revenue are also at a disadvantage when starting on EU co-financed proposals, as self-esteem is necessary, as planning is necessary in advance, and in many small settlements, the target is not such that it is worth implementing from EU co-financed tenders. This is why it is very important that, as a result of the government's economic policy, we have reached the point that there are both more internal resources and more resources announced by the Hungarian government for development, and for the renewal of buildings and facilities with local government tasks that would not have access to this source from anywhere else. A similar programme is the firewood programme, which is badly assembled for many. The government provides firewood assistance to local governments, and the government provides money to help people in need, in crisis situations, in the most difficult months. However, overall, municipal funding also provides an opportunity for small settlements to resolve operations and we will continue to provide support for the additional operation in the light of domestic sources. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-198	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman.
u2017-12-04-199	Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. I would really like to thank you once again, on behalf of small municipalities, in particular, for the possibility of granting aid for compulsory tasks. In my region 78 out of 88 municipalities have applied and won, and a lot of people have really been able to make improvements that are essential for local government work, and that development has been lacking in the absence of previous tender opportunities. We do our job. We know the municipalities, we do not cut, and we are not talking about the poorer settlements in a more difficult situation than the Member of the LMP, who has just spoken. And we certainly remember the times when the socialists lined up small settlements between 2002 and 10, closed post offices, stopped railway lines. Thank you again for your support, and I am very pleased that this option will continue next year. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-200	Thank you, Congressman Attila Tilki. The Secretary of State has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2017-12-04-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The popularity of these applications, of domestic applications, is quite obvious. And this popularity is probably made up of two main things. On the one hand, municipalities can apply for tasks that are daily, burning tasks that are directly visible to citizens living there and directly improve the quality of life of those living there. The second is: it should be remembered that these applications are simple applications, they do not really require a separate contributor, they do not require a great deal of professional knowledge to be available to them, and professionals working in the offices of municipalities can thus help municipalities to make significant resources by opening and completing the Internet interfaces. Thus, the advantage is twofold: on the one hand, it is possible to apply for funds which are not supported by EU co-financed programmes and, on the other hand, they are easy to apply for and easily eligible. Please continue to apply for it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-202	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The hour of immediate questioning is over, and we are moving to the next item on the agenda. A political debate on the use of EU funds for Hungary for the period 2014-2020 follows, which was initiated by the government. Opinion on the initiative of the political debate V/18483. was given to them. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I ask Mr István Ikotity to explain the course of the political debate.
u2017-12-04-203	Dear Parliament, First, a statement by the representative of the Government shall be made in a 40-minute period. The speakers of each political group will then speak in 15-15 minutes. Then the first independent Member may speak. The remaining time frame will then be open to further speeches by its representatives. Finally, the representative of the Government will respond in 20 minutes to what has been said in the debate.
u2017-12-04-204	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the main rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate is expected to be in the time of the pro-government factions. In the meantime, two-minute speeches should be included in the timeframe, with the exception of responding to personal concerns. Point of order speeches are not included in the time frame. I would like to inform you that, if the MEP has applied through the head of the group, his speech will be included in the speaking time of the group which announced it as a speaker. Where he has made a direct application, his statement shall not be included in the time frame and shall be granted a speaking time equal to the speaking time per independent Member. On the meeting room information board, interested parties can monitor the use of time frames. Before we begin the debate, I would like to ask Mr István Ikotity again to explain the time frame.
u2017-12-04-205	Dear Parliament, I declare that the Jobbik Group has initiated a doubling of its timeframe. The time frame is thus divided into 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 45 minutes for the MSZP Group, 38 minutes for the KDNP Group, 82 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 25 minutes for the LMP Group and 9 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2017-12-04-206	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, First, the government's debate will take place in a 40-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office.
u2017-12-04-207	Thank you very much. Honourable Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to state, first of all on the basis of the testimony of the Protocol, that the May Other Group leader, Erzsébet Schmuck, has proposed that the Government regularly report to Parliament on the state and order of the use of European Union funds. The government has accepted the request and we have proposed to Parliament that, on a quarterly basis - during the development period - we will report on how and how we will use the money returned from the common budget of the European Union to Hungary. [[15.00]] We are doing our duty now, several times this year. I assume that, until the parliamentary elections, there will be no more opportunities to review this situation, this formula, which is why I am very sorry, at least as far as the starting point is concerned, that the faction of the MSZP and of the LMP is currently... Sorry, the faction of the LMP is represented by the notary, but the faction of the MSZP protests with its absence. I understand that, because the way they used the money, there's not much to talk about, but we also remember them. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs takes his place as notary.]] Dear Parliament, Mr President, In short, I would like to suggest three things to your attention, on an inventory basis, although my fellow Members are regularly given written information from the Prime Minister's Office, which summarises the government's work in this regard. In short, I'd like to give you an inventory of how we're doing using the resources. On the other hand, I would like to remind you of an examination by the State Audit Office, which warns me of the lessons learned for the period 2007-2013. On the third, I would like to compare some current issues, including the issue of public procurement, with regard to the current and previous development periods, especially because the Government of Hungary will deal on 13 December 2017 with the position paper in which we are trying to sum up national interests relating to the post-2020 EU budget, which we intend to enforce in 2018 in the debate on this matter in Brussels. The State Audit Office of the State assessed it as a conclusion to the 2007-2013 cycle of the development period, first of all stating that the total lack of strategic planning marked the use of EU funds after 2004, so that not only the use of resources was delayed but that the funds were spent unplanned. I think it is safe to say that between 2014-2020, the government planned to use these funds, we have concluded a good financial agreement, first of all because Hungary's per capita funding - the money that comes back, per head of population - can be considered to be a significant number, almost the best in the European Union. On the other hand, it is also because we have set goals that are obviously very useful to catch up with the country. We have said and must stress many times that we do not receive these money for free. Firstly, Hungary is also investing in the budget of the European Union. This will have to be considered in the future, how much and in what form, it will be a debate, how much it is worth investing for us and how much it is worth paying for what we get back. On the other hand, one of the reasons for Hungary's accession in 2004 was that the European Commission, the European Union, in exchange for the benefits of Hungary's accession, for example, the hundreds of thousands of people with relatively cheap and very good labour force, took part in catching up with the country. So it is not that we receive money for free, as a gift, but that our market opening, liberalisation of labour, capital and services, for example, that there are hundreds of thousands of Hungarian labour force out there and working with lighter conditions, so in return we have received that from the country's catch-up, the Western net contributors will take their share. [[Erzsébet Schmuck arrives in the room.]] We can safely say that this catch-up is not ready. According to the Commission's forecasts, the period 2030-2035 is still the time when the catch-up funds for the V4 have to be operational, so if we ask the officials and experts of the European Commission, it is up to 2030-2035 that the goals of catching-up set out in 2004 can be met. I am talking about this because the acceleration of catching up, which is a major social debate - it is not certain that the upcoming election campaign will enable us to talk about such deep social contexts - whether it is possible to catch up with Hungary objectively or to catch up with the Central European region, or whether it is necessary to form an independent Hungarian model. What I can tell you is that the government has taken steps to catch up. For example, redeployment of these resources. Earlier, before 2014, we had planned for economic development of this register to be 16 percent. The Ministry of Economics has decided that 60 percent is now going to economic development. The most critical opposition institutions facing us also say that 55-58 percent is what we use for economic development. So we do not throw the money away, we do not burn the money, we do not build fountains of money, although it is also a very nice thing, but it is intended for economic development, directly to the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises sector. So the SAO's opinion about the Socialists will certainly not be true of us, because they did not plan the funds, they did not plan the use of the money for the benefit of the country, and we prepared for it thoroughly. Not to mention the difficulty of making money. I remember well, in 2010, 10 percent of the resources, the available budget, were tied down. This means that the effectiveness of governance was equal to zero between 2006 and 2010, as the available money could not be tied down. The State Audit Office's report found that, for the period 2007-2013, three to four years were needed for the conclusion of a grant contract for those who had hoped for support as an entrepreneur or organisation. Compared to this, Hungary announced up to 31 March 2017, the total available budget, which was HUF 9300 billion, 137 percent, and more than 100 percent, 110 percent, and 137. So it's not that the applications weren't published, it's that all the applications have already been published, and for all the applications that have been published, there's a much bigger subscription or interest than what was previously available. 82 percent of the funds have been committed and this year's funding is at HUF 2000 billion; HUF 3500 billion has already been paid. These are very important data to compare the two performances. I know that there is no interest or intention in such a deep and thorough debate in politics today, but I still think it is important that government performance is a measurable figure in numbers. I think these figures objectively demonstrate that in the first three years of the cycle we were able to complete the tender, 82 percent of the resources were tied down, and a very large amount of payments, 35-37 percent of the payments were made. Plus, we had to do our job against the wind. Contrary to the previous period, Brussels bureaucracy did not embrace Hungary; between 2007 and 2013, the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments were great favourites of European bureaucrats, which we cannot say for ourselves. Moreover, the work of European bureaucrats is greatly supported by public MEPs who operate complaint factories. Basically, with stencils received from György Soros, as in the old days, they copy reports continuously in blanks, only the names and data must be filled in, and the number of reports will flow to different forms of the European Commission and to different organisations. I would like to say that the European bureaucrats in the corridor when you go to them - I am going to Brussels now - complain that most of the reports from the 28 countries of the European Union are coming from Hungary, and from Hungarian MEPs. In this, Mr Benedek, former Member of Parliament, former columnist member of the LMP, is doing very well, operating a reporting industry itself and a reporting factory. That's a very good performance, because you're doing a strange job. He's always in his office, working for his daily allowance, and constantly pressing charges against his own country. The voters will obviously have an opinion on this. I would also like to say that, in the opinion of the State Audit Office, the development plans have not been designed as the most important objective for 2007-2013 is either to create jobs or to boost the economy. Compared to this, we have created over 700,000 jobs in Hungary over the last 7.5 years, including these sources. The number of public employment has decreased as a result of the 700 000 new jobs. 27 years after the change in the system, the number of people looking for jobs is below 200,000 - 183 000 people earning work in Hungary today. On average, the number of registered unemployed in the country decreased to 4 percent, which means that there are settlements with 1-2 or 3 percent unemployment, such as Budapest, the western counties of the country, but now more and more eastern counties are in this line. Obviously, these resources and these funds are working. It is also clear that the Gyurcsány and Bajnai world also meant the debt of the municipalities, given the fact that the municipalities were not given resources to implement the development, they took out loans. The current majority of governments and taxpayers have had the privilege of resolving the local government system for some HUF 1300 billion, including due to operational deficits and deficits caused by EU funds, a lack of development resources and additional operational expenditure in rem. The report also says that corruption was huge. Between 2004 and 2010, the socialist governments, in the Commission's view, used resources and money in a corrupt way. Despite the complaint factory, the European Commission has not yet been able to conclude on Hungary that there is a systemic risk of corruption. It is mentioned in the State Audit Office's investigation how, for example, rural development, rural catch-up, area and non-area agricultural payments have been paid and used. [[15.10]] Here, too, bureaucracy was characterised by the fact that they represented the interests of Brussels in Budapest and not the interests of Budapest in Brussels. For example, my fellow Members in the countryside can say that, in the previous period, it was unthinkable to pay an advance on, for example, area payments or non-area payments. Only in November-December this year, the Treasury will pay an advance of some HUF 250 billion in order to access EU funds. I just want to say that we have reduced the bureaucracy of EU funds, which the State Audit Office has written a separate chapter on how big it was and that access to money has also been significantly facilitated. We smashed it, smashed it, and disrupted the National Development Agency. There has been a great competition in Hungary over the last decade, that the county rural development office, the farmers called the ÁVH, or the NFÜ is the major criminal of the country. This was a huge competition between these two organizations. I consider the elimination of NFÜ and the elimination of the MVH to be a significant governmental achievement. I consider this to be one of the greatest achievements of the government. The European Commission has done everything, along with the non-present socialists, to take serious steps to save both organisations. I think that it is a huge weapon for voters, citizens, farmers and beneficiaries of tenders that these two organisations have been broken. Depending on today's events, I can safely say that both organizations were hotbeds of corruption. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament, on behalf of the Government, of what the specific figures we have now say in order to launch a debate. By the end of March 2017, the funds were announced, 543 applications worth HUF 9453 billion. By the end of November 2017, HUF 7340 billion was decided, which is 82 percent of the available budget. I would also like to say that in 2017, 1813 billion payments were made, which is 88 percent of the current plan, and this year's payment should be between 2400 and 2600 billion. The minimum payment is 2064 billion, but we actually have it. Typically, during the governing of the socialists - only an objective number of government efficiency measurements - HUF 4 billion per week has been paid, now it is 25 billion in the weakest weeks. The application for rural development is monitored separately by the government, and I recommend this to the Parliament, because agriculture is a strategic sector and the preservation capacity of the countryside is important for all parliamentary parties. 184 739 applications have been submitted to the rural development register. It is a 1000-1200 billion-dollar register, half of which is essentially like land-based support and half of which have development-type support, of which 74 626 have support decisions. That's very important data. I told you about the payments. 39 percent of the entire register has been paid, and I would like to mention here that, in the professional press of the last few weeks and in the wake of political opponents, big news has appeared that Hungary is being punished by the European Commission and therefore Hungary is not getting any money from the European Commission. My fellow Members here have prepared themselves for the payment and use of EU funds, so I do not necessarily intend for them, but for my fellow Members of Parliament who are absent or who are bugging the minutes, that there are two systems in Hungary. On behalf of the European Commission, the Hungarian Government and its bodies pay the funds, and the European Commission has the right to control them, and Hungary accounts for the advance payment of funds to the European Commission. Our political opponents hoped - with a hungry pig monkey dreaming on the basis of principle - that the European Commission would not pay Hungary, so Hungary will advance the money, there will be no money coming from Brussels, so at the end of the year the public debt will rise significantly, because the advance that we pay to the beneficiaries must be loaned in the form of government bonds is part of the public debt. Our political opponents have already written exactly how much the government debt is going to increase, but they have been a little ahead of schedule, given that last Friday our current account at the National Bank received HUF 204 billion, I will report to the Parliament, so the European Commission has started paying our submitted accounts, and it is forecast that there will still be a step towards this year's payment in November and December accounts. In comparison, I note that in 2013, Hungary was a rush driver for the use of financial support from the 28 EU Member States. Compared to this, we achieved in 2013-14 that we had the first place in V4. Some neighbouring countries have not been able to use the framework to our extreme sorrow. It is heartbreaking that only 70 percent of European Union funds have been committed, compared to this Hungarian is over 100 percent of performance, and the best of the V4. Today Hungary is the first of the V4 Member States to use European funds, as I said, 106 percent are announced, 137 percent have been requested, 76 percent of the framework has been signed, and 37 percent have been paid at the moment. I would also like to say that we are applying social policy principles in relation to payments. The most important aspect of this is to allocate resources to job-creating enterprises supporting economic growth, but at least as important was the time and energy allocated to the rural development programme. The reason why the Prime Minister's programme for rural development came to the Prime Minister's office was because the Ministry of Agriculture had to write a new rural development programme, where 80 percent of the funds were to be taken to the small and medium-sized, and 20 percent to the large owners. The previous programme was not like this, so the rural development programme was only adopted by the European Commission in September 2015 and therefore performance is significant. Today, I can report to the National Assembly that we do not support large owners, but small owners. Today, 80 percent of the European Union's resources for rural development go to small and medium-sized farms and only 20 percent go to large farms. Degression is a historic step, which means that over a certain amount - this means about 1,200 hectares of aid - the Hungarian state only pays more aid in exceptional cases, such as in conjunction with dairy production. We're paying land-based subsidies up to 1800 hectares. I believe that this is also a significant step forward in many centuries of debate on land ownership and land size, because we have also supported small and medium-sized owners in support policy and give them a chance and opportunity. I am not going to tell you now how rationalising we have done in management, in handling matters, can always be improved, but I would just like my fellow Members to understand that this register - we are talking about EUR 25-29 billion - above this register, the European Commission is disposing, a power passed by by the Hungarian government. Therefore, the rules of the game are written in Brussels. We can only use and pay the money as permitted by the European Commission and the European Union's rules of play. So when my fellow Members, voters, entrepreneurs, are complaining that it is slow, bureaucratic, it must be noted inside and outside the government, inside and outside Parliament, that we must place this money in accordance with the European Union's rules of play. Then, after 2020, a huge institutional debate will be about whether the institutions of the Member States will allocate funds, or whether there will be a central agency for the European Commission, who will allocate money in all Member States or across borders. We are also preparing for this debate, as we have convincing arguments to ensure that these financial funds remain in agriculture and in the area of cohesion, and that our institutional system is in the hands of the state and in the sphere of national sovereign interest. I would like to mention a sensitive subject, and this is a matter of public procurement. I would like to draw Parliament's attention with data from a number of points of view. Firstly, in 2016 there were 8500-8800 public procurements in Hungary. For everyone to see this clearly, this means 2,000 billion forints. So in 2016, Hungary had a public procurement worth HUF 2000 billion, part of which was recovered from the European Union. Forints 2000 billion represent more than 5 percent of GDP. This is, in part, a large amount of money, partly to warn us that when we are accused of, let us put it mildly, that some people are not acting with the care of a good farmer, we are talking about a question that does not affect 95 percent of GDP. 95 percent of GDP, thanks to God, comes not from public procurement, not from government orders, not from municipal orders, but from a free market economy. So what my fellow opposition Members talk about so often is that there are such and such abuses, this does not affect 95 per cent of GDP, because public procurement is a question of only 5 per cent of GDP, amounting to 2000 billion. 51,000 people have applied for the 8500 public procurement procedure, so I'll get everyone's attention. This also means that there are 5-6 candidates on average for a public procurement. [[15.20]] Therefore, it is not true that there is no competition in the use of public funds because, based on the Commission's examination, five or six players typically apply to public or municipal procurement. Of course, we have also looked at the number of public procurements for which a player is applying. In 2010, when we took over government, 30 percent of all public procurement - we are talking about the same size - was one applicant, and nothing else could win in Hungarian. At the moment, in 2016, this ratio was 16 percent, and the number and proportion of applications with one candidate fell by half, so there is a good chance that he will be the winner, but in the rest of the cases, 85 percent more, on average five to six candidates were launched in the public procurements. We have also examined how many procedures the Hungarian State is launching compared to 2000 billion in which competition is actually limited in terms of national security interests or other national economy considerations. When we say that there is a national security interest, I think that the police, the military, the secret services cannot be supplied by anyone, so there is only a limited competition between qualified companies on the market. When a person enters a ministry, has a national security interest, or has to protect national security data where appropriate, the National Security Committee may also grant exemption from open competition. So the competition in the non-open procedure is only 10 percent compared to 2000 billion, and I would like to draw attention to it. Thus, only 10 percent of the 2000 billion had any government restrictive measures against open competition in addition to justified and legally legitimized by the European Commission. So it is not that we have been skimming, but that we have acted in accordance with the directive laid down by the European Commission, which gives us the opportunity to avoid open competition in certain exceptional cases. I believe that these figures, or these facts, make our presentation suitable for a meaningful debate in Parliament four months before the election campaign, this afternoon. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-208	Thank you, Minister János Lázár. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. The Fidesz Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki.
u2017-12-04-209	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me first of all to thank the Hungarian Government, Minister János Lázár, for giving information every semester on the state of the procedures for EU support in Hungary, according to his previous promise, because this is a very important envelope for economic and social development, which requires as much publicity as possible, as much publicity as possible and transparency as possible. The European Union's resources to Member States should serve both economic development and support businesses and improve people's living conditions. When we are discussing the use or effectiveness of EU funds, we must in no way lose sight of this. The use of resources has changed significantly compared to the 2007-2013 period, and the government uses the resources of the current development cycle to achieve specific social and economic policy objectives. These funds make a significant contribution to the growth of the Hungarian economy today. The ongoing development period is qualitatively new compared to what has been experienced in previous socialist governments. To mention just one example to you, as the Minister pointed out, while during the MSZP-SZDSZ government only 16 percent of the total available funds provided for economic development measures, this amount now amounts to 60 percent in line with the Government's earlier promises. Last year Hungary also closed a very good and successful year in the field of development policy. 85 percent of the available budget has been announced and has contracts for more than HUF 4,000 billion, and nearly HUF 2000 billion, as the Minister pointed out in his expozee, has already been paid. So I think that we are doing well on a pro rata basis, and we are doing much better than anyone would have thought before, in 2010. During the period 2014-2020, our priority was to strengthen rural Hungary. Under the rural development programme, approximately HUF 1300 billion is available mainly to support the development of small and medium-sized family farms. We were particularly pleased to draw up a programme that the government also made in its promise that four fifths and 80 percent of these resources would go to small and medium-sized economies, because we believe that their position, their position, should be improved in the first place by these European Union funds. With the operational programme for territorial and urban development, it provides an excellent opportunity for the development of local authorities for more than HUF 1230 billion. Our priority was to strengthen local economies and increase employment and support reindustrialisation. Since the preparation of the development plan, the performance of the Hungarian economy has risen to such a level that today the country has reached full employment, because we all know that if the unemployment rate is around 4 per cent, it means practically full employment. This is also another challenge in the area of EU development aid and direct economic development aid provided by the government, since, until now, while the main focus has been on job creation, it is now primarily to support technological developments, since the labour market is now very limited, so it is not necessarily new jobs, but to protect existing jobs and technological developments that will have to be supported in the future. Today, as the Minister said, Hungary is at the forefront of the distribution of development resources, and it is in the first place among the Visegrád countries. We believe that this position will not change over the remaining period, as we hope that the process of allocating available development resources will be completed in the following year, since all contracts will be concluded and payments will be made on the basis of the contracts. The European Commission, as the Minister has indicated, regularly monitors the functioning of the EU payment system in all Member States. In Hungary, all inspection documents have received good or good ratings, which also proves that systems specialised in the payment of EU funds work effectively in Hungary. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we must also talk about the fact that the opposition representatives in the European Parliament are doing everything in their power to make Hungary look bad. He is also at the forefront of this, as the Minister mentioned, the former LMP representative, Benedek Jávor, who, at the last closed session of the Parliament's Committee on Budgets, where the committee listened to the leaders of OLAF, the European Anti-Fraud Office, asked OLAF's leaders a series of questions of five points, and all five issues clearly aimed at making Hungary look bad and putting it out of business. I have the good news for you, ladies and gentlemen, that OLAF's leaders have answered these questions on all five points, and the answers have shown that Hungary has not performed badly at any point compared to the EU average, at all points, either in accordance with the average or better than the average over the past period. In particular, the Director-General of OLAF pointed out that Hungary is the only EU Member State that provides access to bank account data for OLAF staff in order to monitor the money flow where fraud has occurred. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian institutions are doing their best to ensure that the system of EU financial allocations is clear, clear and transparent. This has not always been the case in Hungary, ladies and gentlemen. Remember, during the Gyurcsány-, Bajnai-governments, the problem was not only that they had developed a system of over-grabbed, complicated and intricate, which was almost inaccessible - there are no mayors sitting in our benches today, but there are some Members among us who, as mayors, had seen precisely that thousands of pages of documents had to be signed and that they had to participate in a complex tender system that they could not effectively do without practically external consulting firms. This was not for nothing, my fellow Members, because the consultants who, as consultants of the Gyurcsány government, had been involved in the whole complex system, later as outsiders and consultants, were the only ones who had seen this complex system, and there is evidence that more than 10 percent of the resources had to pay for the operating costs of these advisory firms. This is no longer the way it works today, thank God, because not only has the maximum use of resources been significantly reduced, but a simple system has been developed that virtually any municipality or any enterprise can solve for itself. [[15.30]] Obviously, this will also contribute to a significant acceleration in both the process of submitting and criticising applications, and contracts will work easily and quickly. So the system that was a hotbed of corruption during the socialist era today is a clean, open and transparent system, as the government has promised. It is no coincidence that the socialists are not participating in today's debate, because they have nothing to say in this area. What they have done in their period is the series of frauds, the crown of which is the 4th metro investment, where exactly 166 billion forints were stolen or disposed of, and as a result of which Hungary is currently under a 60 billion-dollar repayment obligation - which we hope we will be able to manage and reduce - who participated in such a series obviously has nothing to say about these issues in front of Parliament and the public. So, ladies and gentlemen, I wish everyone a good and effective debate, and I congratulate the government on this performance. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-210	Thank you, Mr Erik Bánki, President of the Commission. I now give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik.
u2017-12-04-211	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Secretary! Mr. Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard from Minister, on 27 March this year we last held a debate on EU funds in Parliament. We can see that in this, too, the government will keep its promise and allow legislation to regularly review the use of EU funds. The reckoning is justified, as we are in the middle of the seven-year development period that began in 2014, and thank God for what we have to look back on. However, it is appropriate to address the main challenges of the post-2020 period. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the government's objectives with regard to EU resources have been correct. First of all, the government's intention was clear, and the institutional system must be more well-founded and more purposeful during this seven-year period. As a result, all available resources were published by 31 March 2017. Secondly, we also set a target that by the end of this year, the level of commitments should reach 85 per cent in relation to the overall framework. This is a realistic plan, since at the end of September, we stood at 77 percent. Thirdly, in order to speed up payments, we planned to pay the beneficiaries HUF 2700 billion this year. This amount was HUF 1430 billion until 30 September. Thus, more than a thousand billion HUF will have to be paid by the end of the year, but the managing authorities expect that the amounts payable will increase in the second half, so that this goal will also be maintained. It is important to mention that we are at the forefront of the Visegrád 4 ranking, based on the figures of the end of August, in terms of the announced funding framework, the subsidies requested, the contracts concluded and the payments paid. Fourthly, last year the largest expenditure in the cohesion programme was HUF 1621 billion. This amount has become significantly higher than planned because the government has adopted a work plan, which has significantly accelerated EU payments. Thanks to this, last year, the amount of our deposit to the EU, HUF 295 billion, was repeatedly exceeded by the funds called. So it can be said that Hungary's net position, i.e. the difference between payments and transfers, was 3.3 percent in proportion to gross national income, with this value being the third place between the Member States after Bulgaria and Romania. Ladies and gentlemen, The future development of EU funds can be influenced by a large number of uncertain factors, including the detachment of the British and, in my view, the bad Commission planning generated by an ever-escaled EU immigration policy. Indeed, we can see that the exit of the British causes a serious headache to Brussels, since the withdrawal in the EU budget means less revenue than EUR 10-12 billion per year. So in my view, the main challenge of the negotiations of the next Multiannual Financial Framework is how to strike a balance between the shrinking resources due to the Brexit and the growing need for funding due to the new challenges. We must therefore expect a series of hard negotiations, since the net contributor Member States are reluctant to pay more into the joint budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is an even bigger problem than the previous ones that the European Commission wants to spend increasing amounts from the EU budget to deal with the problems caused by illegal immigration on a case-by-case basis. The best evidence for this is the draft legislation on the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy, in which the Committee proposes that Member States spend already on rural development resources for 2014-20 to alleviate the problems caused by migration. According to the Hungarian position, this is unacceptable. The management of the migration crisis should not affect the common agricultural policy envelope. Fortunately, the sources of the current cycle are no longer at risk because the majority of Member States have adopted the Hungarian position. However, the post-2020 funds will continue to face very tough struggles in Brussels, in particular in the debate on cohesion policy. The programme of the Hungarian V4 Presidency does not feature this as a priority topic by accident. For Hungary, therefore, it is a basic principle that cohesion policy should continue to meet the objectives set out in the Treaties, i.e. the catch-up of less developed regions. Cohesion policy cannot be confused with other objectives, whether migration or the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian position is supported not only by the V4 but also by EU Commissioner Oettinger himself, who stressed that the system of structural and cohesion money is not for retaliation, but also for the catching up of less developed areas. I believe that this is a snap answer for those who wanted to punish cohesion countries for dealing with the migrant crisis in a different way. In fact, the European Commission warned directly that cutting budget resources for cohesion policy after 2020 would undermine the unity of the EU. Ladies and gentlemen, There is no need to be a fortune-teller to anticipate the fierce fight between the 27 Member States from the middle of next year, after the European Commission has published its papers on its proposals for the post-2020 budget. Well, on behalf of the Fidesz fraction, I wish the government that the policies that are important to us will remain unchanged, and that all the euro that we deserve will continue to be given to Hungarian beneficiaries after 2020, as in this cycle. Thank you for your patience. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party has not given a keynote speaker, no one in the Chamber is on their side. I therefore give the floor to János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-12-04-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Madam Secretary! Mr. Secretary of State! One would think that such a parliamentary information and debate was typically initiated from the opposition side, a genre favourable to the opposition - left-wing representatives who are self-democratic are far from the debate, except for a single LMP representative. You might have something to say about this item on the agenda. I would like to start by symbolically assuming the question of how I wish to describe to you how the government got from Welt 2000 Kft. to Újvilág Nonprofit Szolgáltató Kft. with great difficulties. Maybe no one of us remembers it anymore, and the students of us certainly don't know it, so it's not unnecessary to recall that this is Welt 2000 Kft. it was the kft., which was dominated by a representative of a socialist local government in Kőbánya, and the good Hungarian state at the time entrusted socialist direction to this kft., this private company with all the knowledge of the European Union's use of resources at that time. [[15.40]] So they managed the IT system through which EU funds were used at the time. What kind of government philosophy is it when the most important instrument of government is EU funds - at the time, I note, there was nothing else; now there are budgetary resources for this, there are domestic budgetary resources for this - so the most important instrument is controlled and all-knowing by a private company? This can only be imagined if I want to take advantage of these resources - we can assume that too - or if I am so stupid that I do not recognize the means we have to implement my own non-existent government policy. The reason I don't think that the then members of the government were so sinfully stupid and indifferent is because other movements tell me that they have been interested in these sources and the use of these resources ever since. In the world in which we were learning about the use of EU funds, Klára Dobrev, the wife of the later prime minister, was the businesswoman and chief official who used to babysit the creation of this system. Today, it is the same person, the wife related to the former Prime Minister, who succeeds in reaching out to EU funds as a dominant member of the Altus Group, which the Commission supports. The really sad thing about this is not what they use the resources they receive, which obviously becomes private money from public money, and, of course, with private money, they do whatever they want. Politicians are asked not to give, whether they pay DK from these sources, or possibly from lawyers who are currently prevented from performing their duties, because they can do so. That's not the real problem. The real problem is that those who gave advice to the European Union, the European Commission, through studies, through the development of monitoring systems, on the future use of EU funds, who were as unsuccessful as possible in their own government periods when these EU funds were managed. Now, that's the real tragedy, the blind leading the blind [[Dr. István Apáti: They are not accounted for! That's the problem.]] that they are the people of the European Union who are monitoring from here [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] They're telling me they're doing studies. But I hope that the European Union will not be interested in the positions of the Altus Group after 2020, but rather in the position of the current Hungarian government. I agree with Minister Lazarus, in his exposé, that one of the greatest weapons was the recognition of the need to include the entire EU resource use in the centre of government. There is no system that the socialists have established that there is a government that acts as if to govern - to refer to Ferenc Gyurcsány here again, to his famous speech - and there is an almost independent force centre from the government, the National Development Agency, and there are all the exciting questions about what to use these resources for. [[György Szilágyi: How long did the NFÜ work?]] and how these resources are used. Mr Szilágyi, as always, will have the opportunity to comment, and I will listen with excitement. [[György Szilágyi: How long did the NFÜ operate under the Fidesz government? Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2017-12-04-214	Congressman Szilágyi!
u2017-12-04-215	Obviously, that's when we were able to liquidate the National Development Agency. [[György Szilágyi: How long did the NFÜ operate under the Fidesz government? Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] When it's our chance... [[György Szilágyi: How long did it last? Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2017-12-04-216	Congressman Szilágyi, they're not talking about Jobbik, they're talking about MSZP. [[Dr. István Apáti: We too!]] If you'd like to watch out. [[Noise.]] Go on, Congressman.
u2017-12-04-217	My fellow Members behind me say that Mr Szilágyi also quotes the absent MSZPs; I could talk about this for a long time, but he will do it. [[Noise.]]
u2017-12-04-218	Go on.
u2017-12-04-219	So I think it is an important weapon that the government has recognised that the system is not working, and that is why it has abolished the National Development Agency and has made the use of European Union funds the essence of government policy. And it's a successful policy, we've heard numbers in the ministerial exposé. I'll give you another number, which may not have been said, but today on the radio, Prime Minister Csepreghy... [[Dr. István Apáti: Careful!]] I heard from the lips of the Deputy Minister that when the European Union's use of resources worked successfully during the period of the socialists, when, let us say, the system worked somewhat, they were able to pay 4.5 billion funds in one week, now at an average of 25 billion. So that's how much the ability has changed. Obviously, this has to do with what I've just mentioned to you, that we've made it all a matter of government policy, and it's not something that happens in a power center independent of government. The government obviously wants to use these resources to achieve its own social and political goal, to support Hungarian families, to support Hungarian businesses. We want to make the Hungarian economy more competitive. We want the Hungarian economy to be on its own feet and not to be vulnerable to other power centres in the financial world. To do this, you have to use this money wisely and skillfully. I was a local government man when the socialists dominated this world, and of course we mayors and county presidents were happy when we saw that most of the resources were used by the state, including local governments, more than 80 percent of the state institutions used these resources. Sometimes they got to the right place, but overall, we knew that it was irrational not to invest these resources in the Hungarian economy, and then the Hungarian economy will produce those resources in the long term as a result of production, which can then be used for various public and municipal purposes. It was therefore obvious that this system had to be changed. Compared to the previous period, it is natural for us that the Hungarian economy will use at least 60% of the resources, at least according to the government's intentions. It was also a big change, and let me also bring this here, that the government also had the power or the opportunity to involve local actors in the distribution of resources to some extent. In total, county authorities and county-righted cities have over a thousand billion resources in the seven years to make use of the TOP system to be source users and source distributors themselves. This is HUF 803 billion for counties and HUF 425 billion for cities with county rights. Another innovation that I think is important, especially in the hope of long-term use of resources - by long-term I mean that I, along with the representative of the government, hope that there will be resources after 2020 and that those resources can be used in some way to develop the Hungarian economy - I would suggest that, to a greater extent, these will be resources, and then those that will be reimbursable resources. With this system, the government is already experimenting, not even in small amounts, with 700 billion resources as a reimbursable source for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises through the banking system to strengthen their own businesses through EU funds. Currently more than 600 Hungarian development banking points have been created by the government in the country. A week or two ago in Mohács we initiated such a development bank point through the OTP system, or the Savings Cooperatives are also part of this system. The point is that there are 600 borrowers in the country where EU funds and loans can be obtained in a uniform way, at very low cost, to support their own economic development goals. I think these are the cornerstones of important changes within the institutional system that give us the opportunity to use these resources successfully. As long as the previous EU financial cycle, which lasted until 2013, this government had to compete on it, it had to be interrupted if it was no longer able to break the framework of the system constructed by the socialists, and to use these resources more intelligently, to invest more in economic development, and less in the state itself; I note that the Orbán government has made an attempt to do so, but it is only because if it wants to carry it through the European Commission, then the system will stop for a year and we will not be able to draw all the funds down, so the government has chosen the lesser evil, and said that if it is already in the old order to distribute the funds, then we should be able to draw the entire source. [[15.50]] With this changed institutional structure, which I spoke about at the beginning of my speech, we were able to do so, and we managed to get all the resources from the Brussels register to Hungary. The aim of this cycle is clearly no longer to use all the resources, although I note that we are doing very well in this regard. In the first half of this financial cycle, we not only announced the possibility of all the resources to Hungarian businesses, but we have already paid for a very important part of them, which will be supported by numbers for the rest of the debate. The success of doing this is very much part of the current performance of the Hungarian economy. 2016 has been an exciting year for us, because it was the year of change, the country has already used the old resources, the use of new ones obviously had to be announced first, the system had to be put in place. So we can say that in 2016 there was little use of EU funds in the Hungarian economy, and - after closing, we know that - we were able to grow by 2.1 percent, which is more than the European average. Now, in 2017, towards the end of the year, we see what the use of EU funds means, and we see how good the use of these resources is in the interests and vitalities of the Hungarian economy. We have the right to calculate that the year 2017 will be closed by, among other things, smart use of resources with GDP growth above 3,8 or even 4. So what is happening in this area is a key issue, so as a pro-government representative - although I can say here that the opposition obviously does not think otherwise - I say that we have to recognise this government's performance. Obviously, this is not just a government performance, we also need Hungarian businesses that are able and willing to use these resources. But we all know around this horseshoe that this opportunity is a matter of government fights and wills. And in this Brussels delegated gentlemen, who were sent there by the good Hungarian people, apart from the people of the People's Party, are not only helping us, but against us. So not only do we have to deal with Brussels bureaucracy there, but also with Hungarian representatives from the democratic side who interpret their own thinking as being sent there to cross-patient their country. We hope that you will do this with the same results as you have done so far, because so far there have been so many results, although government efforts and energy are obviously tied down by the Members on the table. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-220	Thank you, Congressman Harghitai. I now give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-12-04-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This is not the first time we are debating the use of EU resources in the 2014-2020 cycle here in Parliament. When we do this again, it is worth looking back at the previous seven-year planning period, since the first full seven-year period took place between 2007-2013 and now we are in the second cycle between 2014-2020. It can be said that at the time of the socialist-free democrat governments, projects were meaningless in the face of actual development needs, and at that time the Fidesz opposition strongly protested against this. It was not a coincidence that very many people looked forward to 2010 because they expected the change of government to take place, and this was also promised by Fidesz and KDNP at the time. Then those who had this hope had to be disappointed, because the promised liability was not revealed, the scandalous cases were not revealed, and the subsidies were not reviewed, that is, the accountability on the part of Fidesz-KDNP remained an empty promise. On the other hand, there have been unthinkable institutional changes and economic operators have had to face constant changes in basic regulation. And if we look at how we can describe the use of EU funds in the period since 2010 and especially now in the 2014-2020 cycle, it can be said that Fidesz continued where their socialist-free democrats ancestors stopped, i.e. the use of EU funds remains a hotbed for corruption. So much has changed, that these subsidies are being given to a different circle, and for the governments led by the Fidesz-KDNP governments, Viktor Orbán, the primary aspect was that the companies and businesses associated with them received these funds. This overrides all other aspects. János Harghitai, lead speaker at KDNP, spoke about the social policy objectives of the government. In contrast to what he has said, I see that, and this is the opinion of the overwhelming majority of Hungarians, that if we talk about social policy goals, we can call it the support of some families, since Lőrinc Mészáros, István Garancsi, István Tiborcz and others can obtain these funds. And there has also been a change in the fact that you have perfected the system of corruption compared to the socialists, because this is how you operate the use of EU funds. The focus of prestige investments and projects that are useless for the economy remains. Here it is enough to bring up the example of the small railway on the ups and downs, or even the case of the 11 lookout points raised in a settlement, but we could give a long list of examples that support clearly the focus of visual investment and projects that do not serve the strengthening of the Hungarian economy at all in the long term, as opposed to the priority of job-creating, employment-enhancing investments. Let's look at the health care area. Here we can see that there are significant amounts of false studies and trainings, while substantial improvements have not been spent significantly, when in 2017 in Hungary we can talk about the fact that hospitals face infections every day. I would certainly like to bring the small hospitals here, even because I consider the issue of the hospital in Körmend to my heart as a Member of the Parliament of Szentgotthárd born in Körmend. In recent years, such as Körmenden, we have experienced the loss of obstetric gynecology and active internal medicine. We protested at the time, and we also collected signatures for the restoration of these classes, I also had speeches in Parliament on this matter, and we tried to take action in other forums. Of course, some improvements have indeed been made, and the same is true for other small hospitals, but overall, we can say that these institutions, such as körmendi, are no longer considered hospitals. By redesigning health care and placing the emphasis on central hospitals, there has been no positive change at all, since we are also talking about very serious problems in relation to these hospitals, the hospital in Szombathely. Returning to a more comprehensive study of the 2014-2020 cycle, it is important to recall that a very serious promise has been made from the government's side in the context that 60% of the money will be spent directly on economic development, but it is already apparent that this will not be achieved at the end of 2017. Which is a much bigger problem, however, if we look at who these subsidies are for. What we see is that only a narrow circle can benefit from a large part of these, the oligarchs and tellers that are channeled into Fidesz are those who are slumbering, while we can see that small and medium-sized enterprises that can be called outside the circle - but this is also the case for larger companies, if they do not have adequate orange connections - are unable to obtain these resources in substance. It is worth it, ladies and gentlemen, to also make an EU look at the fact that, when Hungary joined the community at the time, a serious promise was made that the differences between countries, between Western Europe and the Member States of Central Eastern Europe, and such a change will be made for each region. On the other hand, we can see that differences have increased over the last decade, and this gap has clearly deepened. It is recalled that at the beginning of the year, German Commissioner Günther Oettinger and German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel said in March that Germany actually benefits by paying into the EU register, because the improvements that will take place in our region, for example, will be made with the help of German materials and German machines, so that Germany will be able to get back the money it is giving as a support. Needless to say, this process is not affecting the strengthening of Hungarian companies at all. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Overall, if we look at the 2014-2020 development period, it can be said that there is a very high rate of corruption in applications; it is the buddies who are able to rejoice in these projects, Mészáros and his associates, who can first tell us how these funds have been used. It was not a coincidence that on one occasion I, at the meeting of the European Commission on EU affairs, told Minister Lazarus that it would have been a good idea for Lőrinc Mészáros to come to this meeting, and that he could also be here at the plenary session, since he could provide us firsthand with substantial information on how development resources were used in the period 2014-2020, and even some of his partners who could have increased their wealth in a similar way during the administration of Fidesz. [[16.00]] It is clear, therefore, that EU money does not serve the growth of the Hungarian economy, but the oligarchs. Thus, our country will not be on a course of development unless there is a meaningful change. That is what we trust and are working on, and in 2018 we ask for the support of voters. Because Jobbik will be characterised by a completely different attitude in this regard, namely an attitude that will mean predictability and planning for economic operators, and we want to focus on job-creating, economic recovery investments. The fact is that, for example, the operation of small and medium-sized enterprises is being made impossible by the government, and those outside the circle are able to obtain funds in principle. We, on the other hand, consider it extremely important to put them in a position. Our group leader János Volner has held a press conference on this issue on several occasions on what concrete ideas we have in this respect, and the issue of improving the situation of SMEs is also a priority in our election programme. [[István Ikotity is replaced by Loránt Hegedűs in the notary seat.]] I would definitely like to bring the R &amp; D area here, just because it is also an outbreak point. Even South Korea's example is worth bringing here that they could develop in this way by spending much more money on R &amp; D. It is worth looking at the fact that larger amounts are available in this area in 2014-2020 compared to 2007-2013, but they are not being used in the way it would be appropriate, although statistical data clearly show that innovative companies can increase their workforce to a greater extent. This is particularly true for small and medium-sized enterprises. A much greater emphasis should therefore be placed on this area. A fundamental structural problem, Honourable Parliament, is that there is no competition in the allocation of resources. The major projects of public actors are overpowered, the public sector has the most money, the state is essentially spending on itself, while the little ones do not have access to these funds. Here, let us say, the example of building energy renovations can be mentioned, where we can see that the large institutions have received money, but the smaller and the population have no longer been able to benefit from these subsidies. It is also worth discussing which settlements and the proportion of resources they have been able to obtain from the European Union. Well, it can be seen here that villages, cities with fidesz leadership have been able to obtain such money above their ratios, while settlements controlled by independent or directly linked city leaders have been able to benefit from these funds to a much lesser extent. We have met several times in committee with the members of the HEBC, the Hungarian European Business Council, and, of course, we have had our discussions with them on certain issues, but I fully agree that the creation of a country strategy would be extremely important. The Jobbik will do so once it's on the wheel. After all, the medium- and long-term goals and directions for development that can be decisive for the government on the one hand and predictability for economic operators on the other hand must be outlined. After all, we need to invest in Hungary that supports businesses and jobs where there is high added value, because this is the only way that our country's economy can be significantly strengthened, as opposed to what we can now see the legislation is constantly changing. This is what economic operators have to face, so it cannot be said at all that they would be expected to operate in a stable environment. I would certainly bring the areas of education, health and the social system here, because without them there will be no future for our country, no meaningful progress can be made. And when it comes to Visegrád's outlook, it is worth telling you that, in this respect, we are not only at European Union level, but also at regional level. So Hungary spends extremely little on education, health and social systems. Jobbik also wants to change this; and the currently outrageously high share of priority projects is almost 50 per cent, when the beneficiary has access to grants practically without competition. They're pre-played. Needless to say, this procedure increases the risk of overpriced corruption. It is no coincidence that Hungary takes a prominent position on the blacklists of OLAF, the European Anti-Fraud Office. Overall, it can be said that the systems are controlled manually in the service of individual interests. The priority projects are moving fast, as these are the ones that can reach the oligarchs close to you, which are channeled into Fidesz, the Orbán government, but on the other hand, SMEs are drowning in red tape, and public procurement is the most important means of moving EU money into private pockets. It is also worth mentioning the role of the prosecution, since we, the better Members and other actors in public life have made countless complaints over the past years, but the vast majority of them have been swept down, and there has not been any meaningful consequences. You can see that the D.A.'s office is under political influence. We also want to put an end to this, and we also undertake to set up an anti-corruption, independent prosecutor's office, which will investigate matters regardless of party standing, and that meaningful accountability will take place. What else can Jobbik promise as a challenger of Fidesz in the 2018 elections if the Hungarians give us the opportunity to rule the country? It means that economic development, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, improvement of the situation of R &amp; D, education, health and the social sector will be a priority, as this is the only way for Hungary to have a future. We want businesses to be able to compete fairly in our country, to obtain not only EU funds, but also budget subsidies, according to their merits. We want to create transparent, predictable and clear relations, setting out a vision that means lasting, long-term and sustainable growth, which Hungarians can feel on their own skin, and not just a small circle that can benefit from them, drawing out the country strategy already mentioned. In the longer term, of course, it is also very important for Hungary to be able to stand on its own feet without EU funds. There is a need to reduce the dependence of the economy, because it can already be seen, in the context of the EU budget for 2018, that cohesion funds will be further reduced. In any case, this is the direction of the processes, whether in the context of the Brexit or in view of the fact that there has already been a significant decline in cohesion resources in the. 14-20 development cycle. We can therefore prepare for an even worse situation in this regard from 2020. It is very important for Hungary to prepare for this, and we can take meaningful steps. I would also like to bring the issue of the Wages Union here, as Jobbik has already been able to find partners from the opposition in 8 countries in Central and Eastern Europe. This European citizens' initiative to achieve a substantial wage-receiving goal is to create jobs that ensure a decent living in Hungary. The Jobbik government will aim to establish a merit and value-based allocation of funds against the current interest-based allocation. We want to put an end to the suffocating atmosphere that has been on Hungary since the government of Fidesz since 2010. Jobbik will create a freer country if the Hungarians authorise us to govern in the 2018 elections. We wish to rule Hungary with a Hungarian heart, common sense and clear hands, raising our beloved country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-04-222	Greetings to my congressmen. A series of keynote speeches will continue. I give the floor to Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2017-12-04-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As an introduction, I would like to mention that this debate date was set up on the initiative of the LMP. The LMP has repeatedly submitted a proposal for a decision aimed at ensuring that the government reports regularly and accounts for the use of EU funds. What I am missing here on these debates, because now it is not the first time that we are very lucky, useful, and it would be good to have written information about the data, numbers, and not just here from the Minister's exposé. Obviously, hearing it makes it harder to judge. It would certainly help to improve the effectiveness of the debate day if we received an evaluation in writing from the government first. And now I would like to start by putting in a little place some of the government's slippings, or, to be precise, not entirely telling the truth about the EU's support. We've heard quite often lately that structural subsidies are our money. If we look at the details, there is no question that we are actually talking about the support of German, Dutch, Danish or English taxpayers and that Hungary is, in financial terms, a very strong net beneficiary of EU membership. This is the case even if some of the subsidies are carried out, they return to Western European countries as compensation for the assignments, through businesses, for example. [[16.10]] However, what we see is that if we make good use of the money, the result of this will remain in the country. What we see or understand is that this is difficult to understand from the fidesz side, but if we use the money well, then there are economic relationships that are good for both parties. And here I have to say that it is not only the European Union's well-conceived economic interest to have these European Union subsidies, but also its moral duty to help the most backward regions, including our country. This is how the EU will become an economic and social alliance, so that solidarity can manifest itself in the most specific way between individual Member States and citizens. That is why the government's barbecue, the demonisation of the European Union, is often repulsive because it actually wants to tear this relationship apart and make it look like the Orbán government is giving money to individual projects. A good example is that at a press conference, Szilárd Németh claimed that the government was receiving 1.7 billion for the social rehabilitation of the Star Camp, even though we know that one half of this was a VEKOP project partly funded by EU funding. And if the government is overemphasizing that it's our money, we're entitled to it, it has other meaning. It is also clear from this that the government does not want to assume the obligations of use, namely that it should not in principle be able to steal and deliver these resources into private pockets, but should always be used exclusively for the benefit of the public at 100%. I'll explain this a little later, with concrete examples. The other untruth, which you are very attached to, and the Prime Minister also proclaims, is because you believe that there is such a poor, but widespread view that the Hungarian economy is developing only because EU funds are available. On the basis of the Prime Minister's speech in September this year, he considers these arguments to be unstandard because the Hungarian budget is HUF 18 000 billion, while EU funds only amount to HUF 1000-1500 billion per year in net terms. Of course, one does not know the economy, but the problem is that in a centralised, essentially one-man system, such as today's Fidesz world, the main decision maker is moved by such mistakes. This, in turn, can be catastrophic. Orbán's statement is also contradicted by the studies commissioned by the government, carried out by KPMG and GKI. This means that the Hungarian economy would have decreased by 1.8 percent between 2006 and 2015, without EU funds, instead of a 4.6 percent increase. So this shows that EU aid is a very significant source of economic growth. Since 2004, I note that we have received two Marshall aid funds in the form of EU grants in proportion to GDP, and perhaps this should not be Bagatellized. Yes, unfortunately, the Hungarian economy is very critically dependent on EU money, especially since it is not planned to spend HUF 1000-1500 billion in 2017, but HUF 2200-2700 billion; and thus we have reached the biggest distortion, the activity that is damaging the national economy. The rapid drawdown and rapid spending of EU funds, according to the LMP, is not only a success that should be shown, but rather a major disaster for the economy. By the way, we see the only reason for the rapid drawing and forced splintering, because Fidesz wants to artificially turn the economy up to the 2018 elections in order to say that the economy is soaring and that there is a Hungarian miracle and hopes to win the elections in this way. Beyond the selfish political benefits the government hopes for itself, the negative effects are very diverse and profound. Forced dumping makes it very difficult to pay attention to indicators beyond the amount of money spent. In English, they have no idea whether the projects are useful or appropriate. And there's definitely no energy for a follow-up check. The result of this will be that despite the huge spending of money, we will not achieve the target, despite billions of training, the skills indicators will not improve, despite billions of energy efficiency, and efficiency indicators will not improve. And despite hundreds of billions of people going to catch up on rural areas, the fall of the countryside continues. To put it bluntly, output indicators are not seen, but are no longer measured. They're simply flying blind. That's why after the two Marshall aids, you still can't see the results. In addition, forced excavation drags the economy. The market economy is already cyclical, which is a burden on individual companies, since it is also necessary to survive a thinner period. The government's gonna put a shovel on this, not a shovel, but a lot of bags. In the first quarter of 2016, GDP decreased by 0.8 percent compared to the previous quarter. Industrial growth has stopped, investments have fallen by 9.6%, construction has fallen by 28 percent, below the previous level of one year. This was because the payments for the previous EU cycle were completed at the end of 2015. Well, that's all I wanted to say to the Prime Minister here about his idea that European Union funds are not really important in Hungarian society for GDP growth. Such rough fluctuations in demand and orders will put the economy and businesses on roller coasters and cause significant dysfunctions. In 2017-18, this roller coaster will be re-launched with forced scattering. There is a significant shortage of capacity and a shortage of professionals in the sudden rise, and the falling phase is burying a significant proportion of businesses. We know that the lack of capacity and expertise is now more pressing than ever before, the main concern of the Hungarian economy. Tens of thousands of maintenance workers, water, gas and electricians are missing from the Hungarian labour market and at least as many construction workers are needed. Of course, one of the reasons for this is poor vocational training and the other is migration abroad. But a significant part of the government is itself causing the problem with the restrictive effect of public investment. The problem is that the municipalities are in trouble because the projects they receive cannot be implemented. There is simply no professional or business to do it, and the previously calculated prices have also gone wild. And then we didn't talk about the simple people who couldn't find people for repair or service work. The demand roller coaster is not only a problem of construction but also of all areas affected by EU money. It is equally harmful, even pointless, to start mass training, re-training, to develop teaching materials, and then to stop after a year or two, because the money is running out, and this is the same in many sectors. Of course, what should we do? For us, it is clear that much longer-run, predictable applications should be opened, on which players in the sector can build, and that documents should not be drawn up in haste and bullshit. This would also create the background industry in each sector. Just an example. If a predictable energy housing renovation programme for 10-15 years was announced, which is part of the EU's money, it could increase domestic insulation material production and professional training in a few years, as it would create predictable demand. There is no such effect on the amount of unpredictable aid that has been rejected annually, but, as I said, the government does not have such long-term plans to create predictable, favourable conditions for the economy, especially for small businesses. [[16.20]] That is why we need a change of government, and that is why we need to use the remaining resources on the basis of whole other principles, in a really useful way. Allow me to say a little bit about the proliferation of corruption in EU money and how EU funds get into friendly pockets, how the government brings this to it, although there is actually such a huge development opportunity once in a century. There are two types of draining of resources. One is that they fill their own oligarchs, kissers with tender money, real or fictional forced projects, favour their favourite large entrepreneurs, their oligarchs, their political vassals and their stromes, or even their domestic subsidiaries of multinational corporations. They use grants for purposes that have no social usefulness, no social interest whatsoever. The other type is ordinary public-law corruption, overpriced, designated law firm and tender author, who have a defined high rate, and often completely bogus projects. Allow me to list some examples. For example, in the first type, I mention ESMA Advertising Ltd., the radio communication sensor network capable of controlling smart advertising boards received 244 million for research and development, István Garancsi's interest. Or DataMagic Kft., and this is the interest of István Garancsi, a system research, development, based on innovative sensor technology. These could be further classified. By the way, LMP typically does this every week, at the corruption information provided by co-president Ákos Hadházy. I would also like to give a few examples that, despite rhetoric, the government strongly supports multinationals in activities that do not involve any public interest. I'd like to highlight one of these, too. For example, Magyar Suzuki Zrt. the development and operation of an innovative network of suppliers and research sites, competitive, safe and environmentally friendly tested car prototypes, and the other, and the other, for 2 and a half billion forints. Unfortunately, there are certain cases of suspicion. I don't think that's what we're gonna say. We're gonna say that a lot. In conclusion, it is quite obvious that, in fact, the decisive part of EU funds is not used to put Hungary on a sustainable economic path, which can be the basis of a sustainable Hungarian society. I hope we get more information next time. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-12-04-224	Thank you, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, That is the end of the keynote speeches. Nándor Csepreghy has now indicated his wish to speak to him. You have the floor.
u2017-12-04-225	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Allow me to reflect on the views of the factions on the use of EU funds for a few reasons before we give the debate room for discussion, eliminating some misunderstandings on this matter. I would like to start backwards, because I think that is the more exciting thing that opposition representatives have mentioned. First of all, I would like to respond first, on the grounds of courtesy, to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, thanking indeed for the initiative that LMP has asked the Hungarian Government, and the government has also agreed to hold a six-monthly debate on the use of EU funds so that opposition parties have the opportunity to express their views on the use of resources and their utilisation to the public of Parliament. Madam Member has missed the written documents before this. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you must either fire your colleagues who manage your mail or manage your own mail more carefully, because the last time you received a summary report, which gives you a factual, statistical statement and a record of how Hungary uses EU funds, is for the sixth time at the end of November. All representatives of the Hungarian Parliament, all 199 Members, receive such reports every three months, this is a multi-page document. So far, no criticism of the content of the documents has been received, but it is very welcome if there are any such criticisms. And I guarantee you, Congresswoman, that if you sit through this debate, we can count on your precious presence, I will print out all the materials by 8:00 tonight, and I will give them to you again. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Tomorrow!]] It should not be that the LMP has not been able to properly prepare for this debate. The congresswoman wonders whose money this development resource is. There is indeed a great contrast between the two of us, or, if you will, between the LMP's and the government's point of view. We believe that this is indeed the money of the Hungarian people. Although, in a truly financial technical sense, if we subtract the funds paid by Hungary from the funds that Hungary can draw, then we see that Hungary is the net beneficiary of these resources. But I would like to see if, after the 2008 crisis, there would have been economic growth in Western Europe if the Eastern Central European market, which joined the European Community after 2004, had not been an area of growth for Western European businesses through which they could guarantee market growth. Indeed, you mentioned the study which, apparently, did not draw any conclusions other than its finding, according to which 1 paid-up euro flows back to net contributors as EUR 3 over two years. On the one hand, by the emergence of large Western European companies on the Eastern-Central European market during the construction period and, on the other hand, by the fact that the machines and devices to be installed at that time are largely imported into Western Europe, and, on the third, the additional revenues thus appearing in Hungarian companies also result in imports into Western Europe. She is indeed right that we do not believe in Brussels. We do not believe in an EU institution. We believe that the power of the European Union and of the European Community is made up of the power of 28 nation states, and we defend ourselves with the right to raise our voice in the face of the European Commission's rise against the Treaty against which the nation states are deprived of rights which Brussels has not been entitled to withdraw either at the time of the accession of the nation states or after that. I would like to point out to the Member that if she relies on and quotes from a study, in this case from the KPMG-GKI study, she should do this in full. Because indeed, the GKI study says that between 2006 and 2015 there would have been a 1.8 percent economic downturn without EU funds. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that the rest of the study shows this in annual breakdown, and it can be seen that the significant decline in the crisis years after 2008 and the prosperity that started after 2010-11-12 have balanced this ratio, judging growth for Fidesz governments and shrinkage for previous governments in the years following the crisis. So here it is not a arithmetic average to be drawn from these five statements, but to look at the fact that in the trend we have really only been able to improve the otherwise deplorable growth figures that could be experienced by 2010. The Council also talks about the EU's dependence, which should be clarified, because indeed, at the time of the 2010 change of government, the general experience was that 98 percent of public investment at the time was carried out through EU funding. Today, this figure has fallen to 60 percent with economic growth. So this proves that Hungarian economic growth is no longer exclusive and is not largely dependent on EU funds. With regard to growth indicators and with regard to criticisms of rapid drawdown, allow me to ask you for some corrections. It was not entirely clear that he criticized the government's use of resources too quickly, or, if I quote you literally, his problem was that we spent a minimum amount of funds to develop the Hungarian economy. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Too fast!]] So is it that we're using the money too slowly, or is it that we're using the money too slowly? - because both statements were made by the congresswoman. I'd like to make it clear which one you really believe in. She misses output indicators. Allow me to compare a very objective number system with those before 2010. Let's look at the budget deficit, look at unemployment, look at economic growth. These are the figures that, I think, perhaps, paint a realistic picture of the state of an economy regardless of political and philosophical beliefs. Before 2010, there was no year when the budget deficit was below 3 per cent; unemployment was one of the biggest problems of the economic picture in 2010 and, let alone, there was no economic growth and we talked about an economic downturn. [[16.30]] After seven years of governance, unemployment is below 4 percent, the budget deficit has been below 3 percent for years, the Hungarian state's debt has decreased by nearly 10 percentage points, and, as you said, there is already economic growth even when there are no EU payments, shows this year between the two cycles, when a 2.5 percent increase was exclusively due to the results of Hungarian economic operators. In this respect, I think that there is a need for some correction to be made in the analysis of the situation made by the Member. She also called on the numbers and the supported developments and the businesses behind them. Allow me to talk to you here about 130 thousand projects asking for support in the period 2014-20, so you asked for public or European Union contributions to your own development, 76 thousand of these projects actually won, and we are talking about about about 40,000 companies for 76 thousand projects. Those of you who are regularly referred from the opposition benches to the public of Parliament are five to ten businesses, I think, a fraction, less than a thousand percent of this winning number. But I would like to reassure the congresswoman that we do not think that these 40,000 businesses are all fidesz businesses, but we hope that they will vote for Fidesz in 2018, because this government is pursuing a policy of support that is favourable to them and that they can really believe that this government represents the Hungarian economic interest. In conclusion, in order to make your comment, allow me, on behalf of Suzuki's suppliers, to ask myself, when criticizing the government, criticizing the policy of support that is attacking, among other things, one of the four large automotive companies in Hungary, Suzuki, because Suzuki's support is not the support of a subsidiary of a multinational company in Hungary. This aid is intended primarily for suppliers who have been able to reach the world market on the back of Suzuki, among other things. In 2010, there were less than ten companies in Hungary that were first-line suppliers of the four large automotive companies in Hungary, and since 2010 we have been talking about dozens of them. The support to Suzuki has been provided to them, and the employment in Hungary is truly innovative, supporting high value added production - these are the goals for which Suzuki received support. It's time to decide for the Jobbik. That you agree with the goals that you set out, among other things, in 2014 or, in the heat of the political campaign, you basically let those goals go. In his closing thoughts, Congressman Bana spoke of common sense. Well, that's what I missed from your speech on Jobbik's slogans, because I see a lot of contradictions in your exposé. One of these, allow me to draw your attention in any case, is the same contradiction that Congresswoman Schmuck has been able to face, namely the participation in public procurements and various sources of tender for the companies you call incriminated. A politician, too close to Fidesz, has not been able to be called a politician; he has now prepared a research project by Klára Ungár, who says that the MGTS group - this is the Mészáros-Garancsi-Tiborcz-Simicska circle; the latter is likely to be familiar with the party's funding community, if not elsewhere. [[Dr. István Apáti: It wasn't nice of you!]] the support these companies received between 2008 and 2012. The truth, Congressman, is not always nice. I can accept that. In 2009, these companies had the highest prosperity. If you look to the right, you don't see anyone there right now, but if the MSZPs were sitting there, you could ask them how in 2009 these companies were able to split 4.3 percent of the public procurement at the time. [[György Szilágyi: By agreeing with the Fidesz. The MSZ and Fidesz agreed.]] Since then, this number has been much lower. Mr President, Mr President, the current government does not support small farms, among other things, with regard to farmers. Let me ask you, who does this hurt more, you or Lajos Simicska? In terms of rural development resources, this was the government that first made a decision to apply a degressive aid policy, which means that in the case of ownership of more than 1200 hectares, they are not entitled to the same level of support as smaller or medium-sized family farms. Mr President, in his speech, you have mixed it up regularly, so allow me to draw your attention to the difference between government decisions on supported projects and the decisions of contractors in public procurement. You know, in one case, it is the case that when the government decides how and how to use the resources available by the budget, the amount of areas to be developed is always greater than the amount of development needs, so a political decision must be taken in this regard. This is, let's say, about where the road is built, for example, about leading all the motorways of Hungary to the border crossing point of 2022. It's a political decision. However, following this decision, where there are only 2-3 beneficiaries of cases, the motorway operator, the NIF, the road operator, which are public operators, must carry out public procurement, where market players compete with each other to obtain a job. So I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a number of years of parliamentary experience behind you may not be proof of high professional competence to confuse support decisions and public procurement victories. We would like to answer the other questions raised by Jobbik in the rest of the debate with my colleagues. Mr Bánki mentioned the sources of economic development. Here two numbers speak for themselves: the 16 percent is against the 60 percent. By 2010 and 14 and by the end of the cycle, 16 per cent, and 60 per cent after 2014. I think that Hungarian economic operators do not need political campaigns, it is enough to look at the resources they have received since then. And these figures, and this policy of support, appear in GDP growth, in unemployment figures. Indeed, what is the biggest dispute with Brussels today, and which represents the biggest financial risk, are all cases that relate to the previous period. Metro 4 case. Socialists have stolen 166 billion forints; now we are in danger of paying nearly 70 billion forints in the Brussels register for what they have stolen. Or there is also the EMIR case, which was mentored by Klára Dobrev, the wife of Ferenc Gyurcsány as deputy president of the NFÜ; then, surprisingly, the consultants who then took part in the negotiations with the Commission at the turn of 2007-2008, representing the government, as they signed the documents, confirmed from the state, went out to the market and declared the aid policy system. This is in part a response to the question by Mr Szilágyi as to why the NFÜ had to be kept alive until the end of 2013. In 2010, the government had to make the decision either to stop about HUF 2000 billion in payments and to let it get stuck in Brussels, or to go down a road that we didn't think was right, no misunderstanding, but we had to go through the previous funding period with that institutional system. This is the same until 2020. So we signed a seven-year agreement on the 15th of 2014; in 2018, there will be an election in Hungary, but the basic agreements on the purposes and institutional arrangements for spending EU development resources can no longer be affected, as this is fixed for the seven-year framework. In fact, if the Hungarian government, which is to be elected in 2018, touches on this, with any color, it will cost approximately HUF 1000-1500 billion in failure, which would have reached Hungarian businesses. This is the answer to the question why we only touched the institutional system at the end of the 13th. Congressman Hörcsik mentioned the risks that threaten to draw EU funds, here he mentioned Brexit, among other things, so what risk is there for the British to leave the community. In our view, this risk is not a post-2020 issue, but could cause serious budgetary problems already in the current budget period, so Member States that spend these funds more quickly and effectively can avoid it; those that do not will take EU development resources away from them. Mr President, with respect, I wanted to add these points to the speeches by the speaker. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-226	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2017-12-04-227	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Secretary of State Csepreghy feels very well that this is an important issue, since both Minister Lázár and János Hargitai said how bad the system carried out by the National Development Agency was, because by pointing back to the socialists, how much better it is that the government has included in its own aegis the distribution of EU funds, and indeed Minister Lázár said that this was a hotbed of corruption. Please, you have kept this bad system, the hotbed of corruption, two-thirds of which were abolished for almost four years, until the end of the cycle, from 1 January 2014. How'd they get rid of it then? Because if it was a hotbed of corruption, then we can only agree that the people who worked at the National Development Agency would probably be muddled with corruption, because without their effective activities, it would not have been a hotbed for corruption. [[16.40]] How'd they get rid of the NDA? By having 350 people taken over by the Ministries, and 300 by the Prime Minister's Office from the NDA. Then these people, who have been corrupted, work in the same way with you and operate this corruption system. I'll ask how many charges have been made in connection with corruption cases at the National Development Agency. None. I ask you, when Jobbik discovered in six months that it had paid over HUF 30 billion to various offshore companies illegally, how many of this money was returned to the budget. None. Then what's changed? Nothing's changed. You're trying to sugarcoat the good work you've done with different statistics and figures. They did not do a good job, they did not reveal corruption, they did not take anyone to account, but took over the apparatus that has run the use of EU funds in corruption and is also used to operate EU funds in corruption. That's it. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-04-228	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck in two minutes.
u2017-12-04-229	Thank you very much. I would like to respond briefly to some of the questions that Secretary Csepreghy has answered to me and, Mr Deputy Minister, I am sorry. About the materials. Before the last one, I saw a material, but it was more of a propaganda taste, which is more for people. [[Nándor Csepreghy: You are also human!]] and not such an appropriate analysis for Parliament's debate day. I'm gonna look at this one, I'm gonna look into it, and if it's not the same thing, I'm gonna apologize. But I'll check it out. It is used too quickly. We are thinking that EU funds will normally run until 2020, you want to spend this money, the money until early 2018 - obviously in order to boost the economy, elections are coming, so that it can be said that this year GDP will be 3.84 percent. Here, let me point out that there is a very significant link between GDP growth and EU money. Minister Mihály Varga said in his speech at the meeting of the Economic Committee that the GKI's report has just been published saying that at 3.84 per cent of GDP, if there were no EU support, it would be 2-2.5 per cent. After all, Mihály Varga admitted that about 2.5 percent of them did the same. This immediately shows how much the use of EU money matters. Whose money? Well, you can argue that you're EU money or ours. After all, it doesn't matter to me. If our money and the Hungarian taxpayers' money were to be used more responsibly, it would have to be used more seriously in a way that actually uses and facilitates the development of the country. And then, finally, one more thought: you said that they only gave money to suppliers and not to Suzuki. This is, after all, indirect aid, because if suppliers did not receive it, Suzuki might have had to pay the suppliers more or otherwise. So that's one way to look at it. Thank you very much.
u2017-12-04-230	Thank you. Honourable Members, Statement by each of its representatives will now take place, as announced in writing by the factions. So I will give the floor to Congressman Tasó first.
u2017-12-04-231	[[The sound system doesn't work properly.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members present, As a representative of the 3rd Constituencies of Hajdú-Bihar County, I would like to comment on the debate. I would like to start by saying that it is obvious to everyone that the possibility of using EU funds is extremely important for the Hungarian countryside, and I think that, in contrast to previous practice... [[A hand microphone shall be placed in front of the representative.]] Unlike previous or previous practice, our current practice is clearly better and luckier for all settlements. Several of my fellow Members have mentioned the figures, which are always good to say, since in the house of the country there is HUF 1264 billion in county resources, land development, urban development, it is always worth talking about. It is also very important to me because, by examining the strength and capabilities of the settlements, I can say that surveys are appearing in a row that show that Hungary's rural settlements were in a very difficult situation between 2011 and 15 too. The last time I read a district analysis statement, in which it was made clear from the point of view of territorial capital that Hungary's districts are in a difficult position, and I have to say that in our region, Hajdú-Bihar county, there are five districts in the worst of the ten districts, in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, there are also five districts in the 12 districts, and I dare say that in the areas of North Hungary and Eastern Hungary there is still a very big problem and it is extremely important to group resources. It is good to say that, yet, what we can learn in recent years and what settlements can use in the next one or two years, those resources are of great importance in a number of settlements, they help to increase the retention force and clearly also serve the development of the local economy. We rurals aim to have conditions in every settlement and every region of Hungary that the community of the Hungarian population can choose as a vision and a future. It is extremely important to mention what investments will be made in the 3rd constituency of Hajdú-Bihar County, more precisely where I live, in the next two years. It is important to mention that in the county of Hajdú-Bihar, there was about HUF 36.5 billion in all the funds that became available to the settlements, with HUF 8.5 billion in the constituency for the next two years. In any case, it is good to say that we have been able to develop industrial parks in several settlements, we will implement a Green City programme, we will develop kindergartens, we will renovate health facilities, and it is naturally good to talk about them numerically. For example, it is important to point out that we are going to renovate an industrial park and strengthen it in Nyíradony, among other things. This will serve to bring capital-powered businesses to settlements that can find opportunities to operate locally. In the framework of the programme, which was open to urban-ranking settlements, Hajdúhadház, Hajdúsámson, Nyíradony, Brickás and Vámospércs were given the opportunity to renew several public institutions, among others. The municipalities everywhere in the settlements asked for the opportunity to modernise their institutions, there will be major developments in Bagamér, Philip, Hajdúhadház, Hajdúsamson, Létán, Nyírárrány, Teglás and Vámospérc. It was also extremely important to have the possibility of tourist development in the constituency, since in Hungary that region, that region, is not allowed out of attractions. Here, fortunately, several settlements - Hajdúhadház, Vámospércs - have been given the opportunity to develop tourist attractions and three NGOs will have the opportunity to implement a similar programme in the next two years. What is very important is that several settlements are struggling with internal sewerage shortages, which is why it is important that in Bagamér village, Bocsakikert, Philip, Hajdúhadház, Hajdúsámson, Nyíracsád, there will be an opportunity to start or continue in inland water canals. It is very important that the quality and opportunities of kindergarten care are opened in the municipalities. And it will be important for Sleepy, Bocskaikert, Hajdúhadház, Hajdúsamson, Nyírábrány, Nyíradony, Nyírmártonfalva, Újléta and Vámospércs to have the opportunity to develop kindergartens. It is extremely important that there will also be health investments in the constituency, Hajdúhadház and Hajdúsamson. What is very important is that overall, what is most depressing to rural settlements, is the current state of the transport conditionalities, which we will also have the opportunity to develop from TOP sources. This improvement will certainly also be seen in our capital strength. Therefore, it is important to point out that the road between Szerep-Sárrétudvari will be renewed from HUF 1 billion to HUF 200 million, from HUF 580 million, between Biharnagybajom and Berettyóújfalu, the road section will be renewed from HUF 468 million. And, of course, let us not forget in my constituency the 4904 road, which will be renewed between Nyíradony and Nyírábrára in the next year. What is important is that there is a huge shortage of capital in Hungary in the countryside, so I think that the current steps, which strengthen the economy in the countryside, will help us very much to maintain our ability. I trust that the implementation of the programmes in Hungary will strengthen a completely different region, a completely different Hungary, because Hungary can only be interpreted with rural settlements. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-232	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman János Volner.
u2017-12-04-233	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It is important to mention, first of all, the situation in which Hungary is currently in and what the role of this EU resource is in the Hungarian economy. Firstly, we have to face the fact that Hungary is a dependent economy whose performance depends essentially on external factors. We have not been able to produce economic growth in the past period on our own, and if we do not do anything about it, and this government does not seem to want to change this situation, it is still not up to Hungary's own power whether we can grow or not, but we will continue to be exposed to external factors. [[16.50]] What are these? In particular, think of the EU's resources. At a time when Hungary receives 4 percent of its annual GDP as a European Union resource, and we produce economic growth of around 3 percent, I have to say that we are a country with desperate economic indicators, because there is significant external capital intake, there is significant external investment in the Hungarian economy, compared to this, there is very little growth that we can show. Our other external exposure is foreign companies established here. The economic performance of these companies depends on the economic performance of these companies, and the Hungarian economy depends on it. The government does not praise the good work of foreign businesses, such as Mercedes, when there is a business in Europe and around the world, and more cars are sold, and therefore production is going better. We see that GDP is spinning, but prosperity is less. In fact, I reminded the Secretary of State of the way in which the savings of the population developed. Fewer and fewer people have savings in Hungary, although savings have increased in total, but less and less people have taken these money into their hands and pockets. Social inequalities have therefore not decreased but increased. And we also have an external addiction, which, thank God, helps the Hungarian economy to move up a little, it's the transfer of foreign Hungarians. On an annual basis, we are talking about HUF 1000 billion, which is transferred home by Hungarians working abroad. If it weren't for this money and it wasn't going to speed up consumption at home and thus the economy, we'd be in much, much more trouble. It is also important to see that at the time when the government had to take a position on what it was putting its focus on the development, then XX. 1st century and 21st century The difference between centuries of thinking has become clear. CHAPTER XXI In the first century, knowledge-based societies are being built by states and governments that are positioned towards competitiveness, but the Hungarian economy is not strengthening knowledge, and it is not using EU funds primarily to build infrastructure, i.e. to finance investments with much lower cost-effectiveness. Jobbik's Wage Union initiative aims to enable Hungarian companies to produce higher added value, to create as skilled a workforce as possible, and therefore the Hungarian competitiveness and the Hungarian future should look much better than at present. What can we say now? Today, in Hungary, besides the government of political cart camp thinking, pouring the country's future into infrastructure investment and concrete does not give us particularly rosy prospects. Think, ladies and gentlemen, that we are currently living in the age of sharing economy, that the future of Europe and the world is being redesigned by community-based technologies, higher level of cooperation. Compared to this, we are still at the point where, say, Fidesz mayors realize their dream by cutting down trees and shrubs - typically the city's main square - from the green spaces they have so far, by kneading down, building a fountain there, and reporting on how well the European Union's resources have been spent. We have a number of similar examples that show this. Instead, Article 21 is replaced by the following: Investing in the first century should move towards a higher-skilled, better-performing workforce. However, the facts indicate otherwise. Think of the results of the PISA tests. The performance of Hungarian education has never been as deep as 7.5 years after Fidesz government. You have destroyed education, not laid the foundations of a knowledge-based society in recent years. It is also a characteristic thing that I found just now speaking with my colleague György Szilágyi. A few years ago, as a congressman, we discovered that 74 offshore companies were financed with public funds and received state aid from members of your government. In this case, it could be seen that public funds were made available to companies registered in Seychelles, the Cayman Islands and various exotic offshore locations. There was no liability and, of course, the money was not repaid. Well, so much for having no consequences. It is also important to see why the implementation of large infrastructure projects is in the interest of both actors, the rich states of the European Union and the Hungarian economy. The words of the Commissioner responsible for the EU budget, Mr Oettinger, which said that every budgetary resource paid to the German economy for Eastern Europe would be richly repaid, have already been quoted by my fellow Member Tibor Bana. I would like to draw attention to the model that works here. What do we see in large infrastructure investments? There are large foreign companies, these are permanent players of the Hungarian economy. Strabag, for example, has never gone as well as under the Orbán government, which calls itself national. And these foreign large companies, as consortium partners, practically not uncommonly operate the market for large infrastructure investments with companies whose managers, that they do not, are friends of Viktor Orbán, one by one: István Garancsi, Lőrinc Mészáros, Szíj and similar - quote - I am thinking of businessmen. This is how the Hungarian economy works, ladies and gentlemen! And then, when we think about why in Hungary it costs twice or three times as much a kilometer of railway or one kilometer of highway as in a neighbouring country, precisely because of this model that you have designed and operated. By the way, the socialists were no better at this than you are at the moment. A significant proportion of these money goes to close-to-policy companies. It is also important to see that this is the basis for the system of national cooperation, as you call this fidesz, dogginating state model. With this money, Lőrinc Mészáros, Andy Vajna, Árpád Habony, István Garancsi, Ádám Matolcsy, András Tombor and others, the people who otherwise have nothing to do with independent and professional journalism. This press empire is created from these EU sources so that Viktor Orbán, like Putin, can be freely and independently - once again quoting - in the next governmental cycles, even at the cost of debauching the country's people. You should see that Jobbik would follow a completely different model in Hungary. We would break up major public projects by setting up a public project management organisation, and in a number of major projects, we would give small businesses the opportunity to sign with the Hungarian state directly, not just at the bottom of the sub-contracting chain, and thus strengthen them. It is also important to see that EU funds need to be transferred more and more to small and medium-sized enterprises. In the same time that a growth credit programme was launched at the central bank, this should, of course, have been transferred as a new loan to SMEs. Speaking of which, Deputy Minister Csepreghy mentioned the issue of the automotive industry, there is also a reason why the government has to blame it, because the government traditionally talks about the automotive industry as a success sector, but just as it was not possible to see it in other economic sectors, no professional programme has been launched for Hungarian companies in this area. There is no integrator programme in a sector, ladies and gentlemen, which you call a strategic sector, which employs 150,000 people, and which, by the way, would provide an opportunity to channel Hungarian companies to the otherwise well-scrambling German economy. No policy agenda has been made, and the government doesn't deal with it at all, but you're only interested in easy-to-discover money, and you're interested in similar projects. It is also important to talk about why it is important to introduce minimum professional wages. Simply because, until this happens and is linked to appropriate guidance advice, there will continue to be shortages in Hungary, because young people who can otherwise do these professions go to other areas to study and are not rarely abroad. [[17.00]] It is not a company that gives a net starting salary of 250-300 thousand forints, for example, to aluminium welders or CNC cutting professionals, but cannot find such a workforce, because the government cannot manage the production of a sufficient amount and quality of labour within the educational system that you have destroyed. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-04-234	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman László Szászfalvi.
u2017-12-04-235	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The European Union's money and resources are not charity donations, they are not a gift to us, and they are not a gift to us from the most fortunate Western European countries, states, but they are due to us as a result of the Treaty. It is therefore in our interest and our task to draw all available resources as efficiently as possible and, above all, to use them for the development and catching up of the Hungarian countryside. Following the 2010 government change, the Orbán government has made every effort to launch slowed, stuck proposals and to use the funds to the full. By transforming the support and institutional system and making it more efficient, we have achieved the important goal for everyone to call off 100% of the funding. Thanks to this series of measures, many, many billions of resources have been saved and used in all parts of the country. At the same time, the government has succeeded in developing and institutionalising the new EU budget cycle, seeing the problems of the previous cycle and introducing a transparent tendering system for the EU budget cycle 2014-2020. The focus has been on strengthening employment policy in the use of resources, business-friendly and population-sustaining settlement development, which will turn 60 percent of the total resource into economic development. Ladies and gentlemen, My constituency, Internal Somogy is one of the disadvantaged regions of the country. It is therefore of the utmost importance to make effective use of the resources of the development cycle for catching up in the region. Of course, these are not the only tools available to achieve these goals, as there were significant and important resources, there is also an EU resource, for cross-border cooperation, and, of course, domestic funds from the central budget are a key tool for catching up and developing the countryside. In general, however, it should be pointed out that EU funds are an extremely important resource for achieving these objectives. In comparison with the previous EU cycle, it can be concluded that more resources have been sent to my constituency in the first four years of the cycle, pro rata scale. So far, with the support of over 42 billion EU development funds in the constituency, 51 billion development funds have been or are in the process of achieving these objectives. I think that this is all the more important when we consider that the rural development programme was adopted by the European Commission only in the first quarter of 2015. There is also a dynamic increase in the number of successful applicants, as there are more than 672 successful tenders for EU funds so far. During the operational programme for territorial and urban development, the electoral district already received a HUF 9 billion development. In the area of EFOP applications, i.e. in the field of human development, a HUF 6 billion development was made or can be launched in the coming period. An important area in the field of GINOP applications, which supports and supports small and medium-sized enterprises, followed by a HUF 5 billion investment of more than HUF 9 billion, 107 applicants won these funds. In the area of energy and energy efficiency improvements, HUF 16 billion was won in these applications, with more than HUF 8 billion in rural development, and I mention the KözOP tender, which meant HUF 132 million. I think that the most important progress over the last few years has been planning and predictability, and I must stress the very important turnaround, change, compared to the previous EU development cycle, that a very significant advance payment has also been made, which will greatly help to achieve these calls as quickly as possible. Using these resources, the region's economic development, rural development, environmental and energy development, human development, regional and transport development can be implemented, and these tools will help to raise and develop the countryside. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, I am aware and we are aware that although these are very promising results in a few years, but of course we still have huge work ahead of us and big, big tasks ahead of us, but I think that now, when we put together a little bit of where we are at, we must say that we must appreciate what we have achieved so far, we must be happy about these progresses, and we hope that the use of European Union funds can continue to continue in the same way. I would like to congratulate everyone who has participated in many of the work of the last few years, governments, municipalities, economic operators, small businesses, farmers and NGOs who have worked a lot, and have done a lot to make this a reality and to start this process. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-236	Thank you. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat.
u2017-12-04-237	Mr President, Dear House, It was expected that this day of debate would be used by the government to enhance its own economic performance, but I would also like to protect you from distorting the truth and manipulating certain statistics. I am referring here to statistics on workers. It was said here in the hossanna series that unemployment is already below 4 percent. They did not add the impact of the emigration spiral, so the foot voting of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian workers has had on this indicator. But speaking of the number of employees, let us not hide how this government is forging statistics. Even the socialist farming era, which I did not respect very much, was not characterised by the fact that student workers were counted by tens of thousands of full-fledged workers in the same statistical line, where, by the way, workers working 8 hours a day and paying a lot of taxes are found. In the same way, some of the emigrated Hungarians - we are also talking about tens of thousands of people - can still be found in the statistics in Hungary. So here's the methodological background for you guys to do very, very well. Thirdly, we also see that, for public workers, a single statistical line is used, including, where appropriate, an entrepreneurial vegetable, a middle manager working at a multinational company, and a public worker is found in it. This is a frivolous, childish statistic, which mentions these actors in a single line. None of his work is worth more than the other in my eyes, but let us not say that if, in the case of public workers, one hour a week is enough to be on this statistical line, let us not say that, at the same time, members of the groups concerned can show willingness to bear public burdens. So let's not distort statistics, let's talk about the real conditions of Hungary, because it's the only way we can get to the solution. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-04-238	Thank you. Now we are going back to the regular list of speakers. I give the floor first to Congressman Manninger Jenő. [[17.10]]
u2017-12-04-239	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me say a few words in general, and then I would like to talk about the territorial operational programme. Indeed, we can see that the objectives set have been met, that until 31 March 2017, resources have been announced, and 106 percent of them have been announced to sources. For 82 percent of the 2014-20 cycle, commitments have been made, and even if you look at 2017 alone, the development policy goals will be met in HUF, since now HUF 2700 billion has been paid or more will be fulfilled. Therefore, the government will continue this year above the required performances in this respect. Of course, the numbers alone are still, you can say, very difficult to break down in some areas, but I think that the economic results are good, and EU funds are also involved. What have we heard from the opposition? I think they have a hard time admitting this, because we hear conflicting arguments a lot. If the government doesn't spend the money, then the problem is, if it spends it, then why is it so fast, if most of the developments are EU resources, then the problem is, but maybe it turns out that if developments contribute to GDP growth, then probably these improvements are not going to the wrong place. We have also heard that the problem is that these commitments took place too quickly. I think that, if we look at the EU cycle, there is no doubt that much faster than the previous term, but it is possible to reassure my fellow Members, the implementation and spending of this will take place in most cases after the elections, so there will be enough work for the coming years, and indeed the next government apparatus, managing authorities, will manage it; I very much hope that those who have proved it in previous years. If you look at the excuses, there are usually no specific objections to the programmes or specific investments. Here, a recurring element, I am now also moving to territorial operational resources, could indeed be a problem before 2010, not so much in terms of economic development, but rather in terms of building certain claddings. Well, I would like to inform my better fellow Member, who has once again said that I think it is very important to have a project that helps to rehabilitate the city in medium-sized cities. The so-called "Green Cities" programme has very strict requirements to increase the green surface ratio, and it is determined what the proportion of the casings can be, so it is specifically designed to green the cities, to improve the viability of cities, so that it can be better to live in the city. If you look at the regional operational programmes, you can see that within the framework of it you will be building 1020 kilometres of bicycle roads, 2100 hectares of industrial land, 17 750 crèches, 65 thousand people can participate in programs to help you get back to the labour market, the 439 km of lower roads, the drainage system will also be built 734 km, and what is very important is the renewal of 1465 basic health care services, so it can be said that almost every second settlement, if you buy averages, you can renew your doctor's office or health home. This is very important, and I have also listed it because we can see it from its objectives, so it is not only territorial programmes, such as industrial development and the development of industrial parks, that contribute to direct job creation. In the county of Zala there will be industrial park development in almost every city, but it will be specifically that working conditions and the approach to the workplace, as well as the re-production of the workforce, will be ensured in increasingly improved conditions. I also consider it very important for Zala County to do what is not in the TOP, that almost all educational institutions in the EFOP programmes are renewed and separate vocational training rooms are established, so this does contribute to making Hungary more competitive. Overall, and with this, I would conclude, if, for example, we look at the TOP programme in Zala county, we can see that there are 23 billion funds available for county municipalities, that is, the counties, and practically 19 billion forints have already been awarded. The demand was 31 billion, which is good, because it is always better to have more candidates. In practice, there were a sufficient number of applications for almost all applications, so it can be said that most of them already have their purpose in the context of the territorial operational programmes. So I repeat once again: these have contributed to a great deal, and of course we know that the most important ones are those that specifically support development and innovation resources, such as the development of the University of Keszthely in my constituency, and the innovation resources there are the most important, as is the case in my constituency. I think those who want to submit improvements for innovation can also find their calculation. Overall, I therefore think that the programmes will contribute to the development of the economy in proportion to the improvement of people's living conditions, and that, of course, more money could be spent, but these programmes will be successful, as the current figures show. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-240	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2017-12-04-241	Mr President, Dear House, We have been listening to it from the government for many times, here my colleague György Szilágyi and I have discussed how successful it is that they can involve hundreds and thousands of billions of people from the EU sphere, while it would be much better to boast about their own performance. There are, of course, self-investments, but until, let's say, there is a home-building or rental-building programme, because this has been sabotaged by the government for eight years, the certificate in this area is very modest. A few words about the construction sector would be worth talking about, because we see that both the applicants and the contractors are making a series of distress signals about the fact that, among other things, the crisis of the enormous shortage of workers left by the government has led to the enormous increase in construction work, the duration of the construction has become significantly longer than in previous years, so the Hungarian economy is now suffering damage at national level because the government has not transformed vocational training, has not built a college system, has not developed a system of service apartments, has not extended the rental scheme to mobilise the Hungarian workforce. We also see that, while most of the higher qualified workforce has almost left Hungary, there are very many people in Hungary who want to work in small towns and villages, and who could work in the region and in the region, as well, with adequate skills and mobility, but this is not facilitated by the government, and they simply refuse to respond to emergency signals. With regard to labour shortages, he acts as if he did not exist, boasting how low the unemployment rate is, while this does not change the situation that in some segments it is simply impossible to reach an affordable Hungarian workforce, and certainly not in the necessary quantities. We also see that the government is preparing for a time when there will be a massive roll-out of EU funds, and it is no coincidence that their draft railway development plans will be implemented, for example, through loans from the east. This makes only one sense: the government can maintain its economic policy ideas based on large investments, which are based on the fact that they can provide temporary jobs for four to five to six years in case of major infrastructure investments, say, for those living in the area in the case of a railway investment, and then, of course, because we are not talking about productive, long-term remaining jobs, these opportunities disappear, so the Hungarian economy will only have temporary positive effects and, finally, we will remain there once again that, in the absence of an independent leg, the Hungarian economy will be dependent on umbilical cords, some kind of external source, external influence. Of course, we could now take this whole debate in the direction of analysing how much crap EU funds have been spent in Hungary, starting with the dog fitness salon in Nógrád to the musical dairy industry, but obviously we should go back to the regnosing time of other governments, so during the socialists they allowed a lot of such madness, and since then I have seen some movement in this area. [[17.20]] At the same time, a hospital façade change or, where appropriate, the replacement of a decorative stone cover may also - perhaps we can agree on this - does not provide long-term jobs, so it can be treated as a temporary effect in terms of strengthening local communities at least, since the hospital's façade is not certain that the ventilator is still working there, and the doctor is likely to emigrated abroad. You can laugh about it, but I think it's a lot sadder than making fun of you. The fact is - let's leave this example - that in Hungary this government should have developed a concept of housing and renting for health professionals. In many cases, housing difficulties that together put him in an unmanageable position are placed on low pay, say the worker who wants to find his calculation from a rural town in Budapest would like to cover the cost of his livelihood here. It is not difficult for us to agree that this is impossible at this level of payment. However, speaking of dog fitness in Nógrád and other, once again, more of the madness of the socialist period, there are still one or two question marks. Let me just highlight two in the hope that a concrete Secretary of State will come to them. I was looking at it from press reports. The Hungarian Nature Walking Association, belonging to István Garancsi, can develop from nearly HUF 3 billion. I don't have a problem with the Nature Walking Alliance. My question is how can any Secretary of State justify the fact that the adventure of the Alpokalja project in the Sopron-Fertő region is worth more than HUF 461 million, and the roaming of the Bakony to Lake Balaton is HUF 430.8 million. I can imagine that these are meaningful goals, and I can imagine that they have some kind of uplifting power in the Hungarian economy, but these amounts are sobering when, say, we are looking at hospital renovations in Budapest, or that Óbuda is in the Margit Hospital, that a community solution model should be used in order to renovate and paint a wing. So I'm not saying that conflict of interest rules should be tightened up to the wall, but I'm saying that if there are economic operators close to you, at least make sure that, in the case of any of your direct interests, associations or organisations, the certain thing doesn't run so far and the horse's foot doesn't hang out. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-04-242	Thank you. Secretary of State Mr Tuzson Bence has indicated that he wishes to comment on the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-12-04-243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Looking at this issue from another aspect, it is very important to note how these EU funds and the use of EU funds can be used as a tool and what instrument Brussels intends to use. I think it is in no way appropriate to bring the use of EU funds into a context that makes them fit to be used as a penalty of a criminal nature, because if we are talking about the issue of immigration and the linking of immigration with EU funds, then it is a matter of two things that do not belong to the country, i.e. EU funds, which otherwise involve the country, precisely because Hungary has opened its doors to Western European companies, and this must be compensated for by the Hungarian economy, so that the balance can be maintained to create a win-win situation, that is why there are EU funds, not that Brussels can use this as a threat or as a sanction. We can clearly see that the threat from EU representatives is that either development resources or cohesion resources, or even agricultural subsidies, are being taken away on a regular basis. This also covers the period after 2020, but also for the current period, since a draft decision on agricultural subsidies has been drawn up, the essence of which is to withdraw EU funds and to reduce EU funds and to cover migration. Obviously, for Hungary, where the ratio is high, so the ratio that is around one third of all the EU support that comes into agriculture would be particularly painful. Fortunately, for the period before 2020, European countries have already decided - a majority in this respect - not to make such changes, but there is a risk for the post-2020 period, as even Jean-Claude Juncker stressed the need to withdraw some, even structural, funds from countries that do not support immigration. Cohesion funds after 2020 are already being planned, documents are being drawn up continuously, and it is a recurring idea to impose political conditions on individual grants, i.e. to say in Hungarian that they are trying to blackmail and punish individual Member States on issues, typically migration, which are not related to cohesion funds or the original purpose of resources. Obviously, it is no coincidence that the Soros plan will come back in this regard in the mind of many people, because it is precisely that the implementation of the Soros plan is taking place in Brussels in this point or in this regard, which must be resisted as strongly as possible. In fact, it is new news that György Soros believes that, as part of his attack, pressure must be put on the European countries in the budgetary negotiations, because now is the moment, the time of the trial, when pressure can be put on the issue of immigration to different countries, including Hungary. The time is short and we are facing a great deal of struggle, as you know that in May next year for the period 2020 the budgetary allocations will be visible, and by this time we will have to make a decision on this issue. It is a very regrettable fact that the representatives of the left are now completely absent from Parliament. This is a shame, as they are partners in the ongoing vote of his representatives, as allies of Soros, on initiatives to reduce EU funds for countries that are resistant to the Soros Plan. We can say with a calm heart that, for the first time in the history of the European Union, instead of lobbying alongside the country, the opposite is happening to withdraw funds from Hungary. That's where their lobbying takes place. This is a very regrettable fact, and this is indeed an anti-Hungary act, an anti-Hungary act in which together they say the same thing that György Soros says, so in this respect the action of the Hungarian left is parallel and the action of György Soros. They're in league with each other. There is no basis for this, ladies and gentlemen. You can't blackmail a country because it's not about charity. EU funds are available, supported by legislation, decisions of the European Union and the budget of the Union. There is no legal possibility, or at least no legal possibility now, to coordinate these issues with each other, and to resist any attempt to combine these non-linked issues with each other, because one of them is EU law, so budget support comes from EU law, but there is no EU basis for support for migration. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-12-04-244	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. State Secretary Zsolt Szabó has spoken. Mr. Zsolt Szabó has the floor.
u2017-12-04-245	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Some thoughts about the past and the future. If I may, I will start by saying that the primary objective of the European Union proposals is to develop all parts of Hungary equally in all areas. Some are industrial areas, some are transport, some are logistics areas, some are job-creating areas, some are not job-creating, but some are just as necessary. This applies to the use of EU funds in the previous period, and I refer here to the KözOp money, from which 404 kilometers of roads have been built, and the length of the developed roads, which have been repaired, is 624 kilometers. But I could refer to the 351 kilometers of municipal cycling trails and to the about 138 kilometers of smooth cycling trails developed by the NIF. And speaking of rail transport, there have been rail developments in all directions. The length of the railways renovated under the programme is 322 km, affecting 720 thousand people. [[17 .30]] I believe that, in closing the previous period, these numbers speak for themselves. The other area is IKOP, which is the currently ongoing transport development project worth HUF 1215 billion. The tender can serve both the international TEN and domestic needs in the first place. Overall, it can be said that all the tenders have been put out, tied down, and that, in order to add quantitative figures, some 208 kilometres of railway renovation will take place in the next period. In the Central-Hungarian region, road renovations for road transport and urban transport are carried out for a length of some 54 kilometres and so-called suburban transport for some HUF 125 billion in order to ensure sustainable urban transport. This includes the purchase of brand-new railway vehicles and transport vehicles. It is also important to mention the European Network Development Facility, the so-called CEF types of proposals. Hungary will use some 337 billion HUF of this tender package between 2014 and 2020. About 40 projects in the three rounds are committed to 100 percent of the cohesion framework, which is the sum of HUF 337 billion. In this respect, these programmes will also be implemented taking into account the investment value. Hungary is a success in this area anyway. It can be said that there is another government decision that strengthens the government's strategic foresight. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: The government decree requires the renovation of some 920 kilometers of road, which is proposed. In particular, two two lanes of highways and highways are built, primarily these two represent between 75 and 80 percent of road construction. The total development value is about HUF 1860 billion. Perhaps one of the most important things is that the economy and the country themselves, the Hungarian countryside, are developing the roads and railways. These numbers speak for themselves, and I believe that the government has taken important steps in this area. The other area I would like to refer to, and what is very important is that sometimes other types of developments produce the same result in farming, not just building jobs, but not just investment jobs. This is the operational programme for environmental and energy efficiency, the COHEP, which has already been set at about 112 percent. This means that we have applied for 1302 billion HUF instead of the original HUF 1161 billion. The proposals awarded represent 94 percent of this amount, and we follow two main directions: energy efficiency and renewable energy. In the area of renewable energy, Hungary's aim is to reach a minimum level set by the European Union by 2020, which is 13 percent. We have already reached the size of around 14.65 percent of Hungary's commitment. However, we will not stop, so it is absolutely important that we also serve Hungary's own energy supply for renewable energy. The other is very important for energy efficiency. It doesn't matter how much energy our public institutions can save, and they can use it for either operation or wage development, for example. In this area, HUF 760 billion will be invested, and as I mentioned, 94 percent of this has already been contracted and investments are under way. I think you can only look at this whole system in a complex, complete way. I would ask my fellow Members to see EU developments in this way, as there is no overall development without one element. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-04-246	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We're going back to normal speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Riz.
u2017-12-04-247	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county is a narrower country, and I would like to steer the development aspects a little further in the direction. Here, as in the case of the others who spoke before me, I would approach from the economy. Unfortunately, we know that Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county's indicators are not among the more developed regions of the country rather than among its backwards, but I would like to point out that this trend is already improving compared to the last few years. It shows an improving trend because those areas with growth potential, such as Miskolc County City and the cities of the Borsodi South Borsodi Industrial Axis, Mezőkövesd, Tiszaújváros, Kazincbarcika and now partly Ozd has started on a specific growth path. All over this area, existing companies are expanding capacity and technology, and secondly, they have additional staff requirements. The regional actors are very important in our county, as the state of the municipalities in the county and the infrastructure associated with them is decisive in terms of the quality of life of the settlements. Our county has HUF 93 billion to implement its own development plans within the TOP framework, while the city of Miskolc receives the second most in the country, HUF 35 billion. Borsod-Abaúj gets the most in this regard, by the way. The county is at 62 percent in terms of the aid granted at the moment and 61 percent in terms of payments. The city of Miskolc stands at 85 per cent in terms of the grants granted and 50 per cent in terms of payments, which means that it is not bad for the county, and even very well for the city of Miskolc. The other change compared to the past period, that while there was a lot of point-like, spot-like developments in the period 2007-13, which were carried out in isolation from each other, there was no real cooperation between regional actors, civilians, municipalities and businesses, so the distortion that has been affected to date is clearly visible. This has been an attempt to change during this period, partly by the government, partly by the regional actors and also by the organisations operating there. They are trying to build on each other as effectively as possible and draw development resources in this spirit. There are important players in this, such as the Széchenyi Programme Office, the rural development network, the chambers and the pacts that are established, for example, within the framework of the TOPs. However, civil society organisations that use the human resource operational programme in the first place to achieve their own goals are also important. The agricultural sector is also building on one another today, where the large integrators, i.e. the large agricultural operators who have developed either in the livestock sector or in the food industry, are actively looking for a range of small producers, medium-sized enterprises who can be considered for them either as recipients of services or as suppliers. Tourism is a typical driving sector in part of the county, so it is primarily the Tokaj-Hegyalja, the Zemplén part, but it also includes the area of Miskolc with the Bükk and the Aggtelek National Park as one of our largest national parks. Several improvements have also been made in this area in recent years. From this you can see that the city of Miskolc and the region also have a significant increase in tourism revenue, both in terms of the guest night and in terms of the forints spent here. Congressman Bana was concerned that municipalities which do not belong to the political family but are members of the opposition political family will not receive support. I would like to say that Ozd, which currently has a better management, has used 46 billion forints as development aid in the past period, is currently holding that... Sorry, the 46 million forints is a development package covering the 3rd constituencies, so I would like to clarify what was said earlier, while at the moment, focusing back on the city of Ozd, the direct or indirect source is 7.1 billion forints. I believe that this is somewhat contrary to what has been said about the fact that those municipalities are being pushed into the background. Even though the young mayor of Ózd has not been very good at voting the funds left up for regional actors, he did not vote for his own development resources as a member of the county assembly. All in all, as I said, it's over 2 billion forints. [[17.40]] Among other things, large investments that have been created in Ózd in recent years, such as the two institutions of the Hungarian National Digital Archive, such as the Erőmű or the Film History Experience Park, have been made partly by Congressman Hadházy and partly by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs over the past period. We disproved both of them, and yet there's still a rumor going around that this was an unnecessary investment. Now I'm going to tell you that in terms of indicators, both institutions can meet and even surpass the number of visitors. They are full of programs, they are waiting for them, and they are increasingly waiting for them from a further circle. I am happy to say that our county, including Ozd and its region, is destined for significant growth. One critical point in this could be the existence of the necessary workforce. My fellow Members, Jobbikos - I cannot appeal to socialists, because they are not here - as our fellow Members do, they know very well that most domestic companies have a labour shortage, which is why development programmes that help to catch up are important. Training programmes are also included as a component of the package, which will help to increase the opportunities and account for those who can be brought into the primary labour market of around 47,000 job seekers in the county. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-248	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2017-12-04-249	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On today's debate, like the previous debates on the subject, we had the opportunity to listen to the government's success propaganda, and in fact Bence Tuzson's speech we heard the name of György Soros thirty times, and after the lesson was cancelled, Bence Tuzson stood up and left. He's about as interested in development policy. So the government has triumphantly told us about how cleverly it has been to scatter the seven-year development resources over three years. Unfortunately, there has been no substantive mention of what useful, sustainable goals have been achieved from these sources, which can be assessed for the Hungarians, for all of us, although this is one of the essential issues. Another very important question is how much the European Union will eventually pay out of the billions given to its friends by the European Commission, i.e. the institution of the current government. According to the news in the press, our situation is grief-stricken. Of the 1700 billion forints paid by the government so far, the European Union has only accepted 100 billion forints. Disproportion stands out and stands out for everyone. So the troubles are big, someone's gonna have to take care of all these lost money. In spite of the government's efforts to conceal the truth, we must establish that the distribution of EU development resources in the 2014-2020 cycle is a rather miserable failure for the country. The cause of this failure is clearly the government actors who first destroyed both the institutional system and the regulators and then recreated it to serve their individual financial interests. Let's see the numbers that the institutional system has published on the official website for the past six months. In all operational programmes, the total committed funds were HUF 4262 billion on 26 March. Now, according to the figures of 26 November, this amount is HUF 6517 billion, so Madam Secretary of State can take a look at it. This is the amount for which an aid contract has already been concluded. In six months, the government has made a new commitment of HUF 2300 billion. The amount of payments is also included in the official website, so these data all come from there, which was HUF 1792 billion in the spring, currently according to the website data, HUF 3269 billion. The amount paid has almost doubled, but the statistics published do not include how much of this is paid in the form of an advance and what is the amount of the actual account-based payment. The distinction is important because there is no actual performance in the case of advance payments, and the beneficiaries have not yet started to implement the project. On the other hand, in the case of invoice-based payments, ex post payments are already made to the actual project carried out or to parts of the project. It refers to the disruptions of the system that, among the statistics published on the website, the amount of aid awarded by a support decision is lower than the amount committed under the current grant agreement. Logically, we might think that the first step is to make a supportive decision. This will be followed by the conclusion of a grant agreement corresponding to the decision. According to this reasoning, the amount committed by the grant contract should never be higher than the amount awarded by the sponsor. According to the information available on the website, for the GINOP economic development GINOP, the aid amount allocated by the grant decision is up to 351 billion - almost 20 percent - and 123 billion for transport development and IKOP - about 11 percent. The published data are either obviously flawed or the government entered into an illegal grant contract for HUF 473 million, which the EU will never reimburse, despite Hungary's submission to the Commission of an invoice for these developments. It is clear, therefore, that throwing huge numbers is a hoax, a diversion to the problems of substance and to the actual results, whether positive or negative, the government is trying to pay attention elsewhere. There is also a roar of propaganda in development policy, which we can see in the field of political struggles, preparing for the elections. But the main difference between party policy and development policy is that in party politics governments come and go, according to the electoral will at all times, but development policy determines the fate of the country and the people in it for decades. If in party politics one government is clumsy and unsuccessful, then the voters will replace it and vote for another. Clumsiness in development policy, on the other hand, has a heavy cost. The missed opportunities, the wasted resources, will result in a permanent breakdown of the country as a whole. That's what we're witnessing now. Our economic growth is lagging behind regional competitors. Hungarians are poor, more than 63 percent of society lives from one month to the next without savings. They also leave the country to an unprecedented extent and become forced to become economic refugees in the most fortunate countries of Western Europe. This is tragic, fellow Members. Looking at the history of the whole of the support system over the past nearly four years, we have to establish - without the slightest exaggeration - that the Hungarian development policy has fallen victim to government looting, hush-hushing and, unfortunately, corruption has become an area of fulfillment. We see systems that don't work, we see disintegrating institutions, we see overloaded or unprepared personnel, and we see that buddies' applications easily and quickly pass through this chaotic system, while simple Hungarian SMEs wait up to a year or more to make a decision. To all this, the government propaganda is just saying that we've distributed all the resources, that we're throwing all the money away, and that it expects us and the country to assist and applaud this dilettious work with a good image. How can anyone be happy that the government, which is being regent, is squandering the nation's seven-year development resources in three years, for purposes that are only in the interest of friends, not in the interests of the nation, not in the interests of the country? I am sad, ladies and gentlemen, because this is the fourth time we have talked about this issue in this Chamber, but unfortunately, the situation has not been changed in substance. And I'll give you examples of what you're saying, and you're saying it out loud. For example, the speeding up of the evaluation of proposals with the State Appraisal System. Well, the evaluation of applications, for example, in the rural development programme, reaches one year! So the candidates wait a year to decide, or even longer. The situation is not much better for R &amp; D applications. There are still R &amp; D applications submitted by SMEs in February 2016 and no decision has yet been taken on support or rejection. Another government propaganda, which is constantly being said, is that most of the resources are spent on economic development, specifically the SME sector. Most of the tender schemes that appear are priority projects where SMEs do not even have the opportunity to submit a tender. Hungarian SMEs will not be involved in the implementation of these major priority projects, as public procurement for the implementation of such projects will be won by well-known buddy companies, both from the immediate environment of the Prime Minister. Such overpriced projects significantly distort competition, drastically and adversely affect market conditions, making SMEs more vulnerable to this system than beneficiaries. [[17.50]] So we can conclude that the big speeches you have said about using these EU funds were all lies and horseback. We have to find out that you spent the seven-year development policy money over the last three years, and we should have used it a lot better. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So we've seen the government squandering the entire EU's development money and traipsing it away over the last three years, and I think it's a pity. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-04-250	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai.
u2017-12-04-251	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I should have taken a sedative during György Szilágyi's comment because I was quite annoyed by what he said. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks. György Szilágyi: I'm sorry.]] He practically lied to the public in this country about things... [[Intercoms from Jobbik: You have a bad nervous system!]] My nervous system may be bad, yes, that's right, Congressman Staudt... [[Dr. István Apáti: Take vitamin B! Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] Mr. President, I'm asking you to put them in order. Thank you very much. First of all, the Member before me spoke about spending money, and before him, the other two party partners also played similar strings. Let's start over. János Volner thought he said that the school system was so shattered that right now, and allow me to talk home, only 18 schools in our area are being renovated by the government, and four more have already been renovated, elementary schools and secondary schools. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] Of course, of course, of course, it's not important, it's not part of the school system to renovate the school, it's not important where teachers teach and children learn. Undoubtedly, it is a XXI. Education on the Internet is probably more important for the party of the century, but believe me, it also requires school and school benches. At the moment, all of our vocational training institutions in Bács-Kiskun County are renovated and developed by the government. So you're developing it. Dániel Z. Kárpát, President of the Commission, said that external thermal insulation is completely unnecessary to involve a hospital with new plaster. Please, all our hospitals will be renovated in Bács-Kiskun. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's not what he said! He didn't say that!]] But he said that, let's look back, let's listen back. That's what he said. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's not what he said!]] I think thermal insulation in schools is a useful thing. If Mr. Zsolt Szabó was here, would you verify [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] that the thermal insulation of our schools and the external thermal insulation of hospitals is so important... [[Noise and interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] Mr. President, please help me. [[The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Gábor Staudt: What about when you told me?]] I don't say anything like that, Congressman Staudt. The point is that in the speech of the honourable opposition, it is said that we have wasted the money on schools, hospitals, road construction, we have scattered it, for example, in my constituency, 535 farmers have received unnecessary AKG support, the development of their vineyards, orchards, ploughers and livestock farms will also be able to achieve and be supported. According to this, we have scattered these funds, worth nearly HUF 9.5 billion, in the southern part of Bács-Kiskun county. We've been throwing money away for pet farms, apparently, for buddies, but I know a lot of good buddies who are also happy to get support, and believe me, they see things differently what you're saying. You say we've wasted money on roads. Believe me, there's no point in talking about development policy without road construction. Trust me, it was useful. Believe me, it is a pity to hurt businesses that are engaged in development and have asked for support or capacity expansion, or have submitted applications for R &amp; D programmes or even jobs worth nearly HUF 10 billion in our area. I think it's a shame to accuse them of increasing the range of money-snatchers, and maybe they're corrupt, too, because they dare to take support from this government. It may have been unnecessary to spend 6 billion forints from the Human Resources Development Operational Programme and to support 54 institutions and schools; this is part of my 5th constituency in Bács-Kiskun County. I don't think that was a waste of money either. If someone doesn't know something, it's not a problem if they don't touch it, just don't tell and don't show it. It may have been unnecessary to put into environmental programmes such that, say, using renewable energy sources, they would provide the geothermal heat supply of a city worth hundreds of billions of forints. This is certainly unnecessary; and according to Mr Szilágyi, for example, in our settlements, where public institutions will be renewed from 5 and a half billion forints from the resources of the regional development operational programme. I don't think that's unnecessary. We have 1082 projects underway at the moment, and another two thousand to go. Nearly HUF 40 billion is being developed by the region's entrepreneurs, local governments, churches and any other institution that has applied for and won. I think they're all outraged when they're told that they're throwing money away and stealing it. We shouldn't be finding that connection. [[György Szilágyi: You stole it!]] Yeah, we stole it, that's right. [[György Szilágyi: Yes, of course, you stole it!]] György Szilágyi's world is very narrow, slightly one-dimensional in this debate. The other thing that is very important is that we mention in this circle that, however painful it is, believe me, most of the country is happy with its development resources. Developing parts of Hungary that fall or are richer, believe me, is a saving thing. And even if you no longer pay attention to the Expo of János Lazarus, 95 percent of the resources are certainly not in the controversial circle, which you explain to the 5 percent and extend to the full 100 percent. I ask you to respect your constituents so much that they don't say that they're corrupt bastards because they're hiring support. Every speech we have heard here today almost suggests that all the entrepreneurs of Hungary, our entrepreneurs, are scoundrels who took support. Believe me, it would be a big mistake to present an industrial development in such a way. There are still a number of projects that could be named by name, but I do not want to put entrepreneurs in a difficult position by mentioning names, because you will accidentally come at them, but what is certain is that Hungary is better off at the moment by drawing cohesion resources and regional resources than any other Member State in Eastern Europe that joined later, which is entitled to such a resource, and that should not be denied either. Believe me, school, kindergarten, hospital, business, roads, anything to improve is a great thing, and you'd rather support it than attack it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-04-252	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2017-12-04-253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've prescribed a few things for myself. My fellow Member from Bánya was very offended, let me say at the beginning of my speech when, during his speech, we spoke to what he said, but he did the same, by the way, under the rightful speakers. There's a saying they hang the executioner. So if you listen to your fellow Members in peace, you can expect your fellow Members to listen, and now you're on the phone, so you can't hear this either. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Anyway, let's get to the point, which is why we're here. Although I add, I am very sorry that only Jobbik appeared on the opposition side, although it is also true that we have had more similar debates in Parliament. I think the main aspect that we do not really get is when we will - and we will start with EU accession - take away the real balance of what we have given and what we get from EU accession. There is no simple amount to talk about here, as there have been numerous crimes committed by the MSZP, Fidesz governments during the accession negotiations and after accession, which can be quantified, but no one has quantified it yet, or has been described in scientific studies at most. Now I'll give you an example, only the immediate application of the interest-pays directive, and that we didn't ask for 7 years - there was a lot to ask for years of exemption from their application, we mostly signed everything, and we said that as we entered the Union, we would have applied them - well, these were hundreds and thousands of billions that had left the country, just because there wasn't a state leader, otherwise this was true of the Fidesz and socialist governments, who would have said, and we wouldn't have had to beat the negotiating table, but would have raised their hands and lived with the opportunities that were given to us, or that were open to us at the time of our accession to the EU. This is a prehistoric sin that this scale has not been withdrawn, so we don't know exactly where we started or where we're going. I think it is very deceiving when we throw numbers into the air that so many billions, so many billions, an area has received HUF billion for development, but how much it actually got there, how much it has benefited from the people living there, and if these resources fade away, then how much it can rely on them, on the investments invested there, and how much progress has been made in the development of the economy, well, we can't hear any statements about that either. The number war is therefore very dangerous in itself. [[18.00]] I also say that if the country's budget is opened, we will pay more than HUF 300 billion, well over HUF 300 billion from all our taxes to the EU register. This burden is borne by everyone, and this may come into the country about three times more often, and we can say at first that the Hungarian state and the Hungarian people will benefit from 1:3, but if we look at the fact that it is often wrong to set targets in the first place, and we lead to the fact that on the various corrupt systems, as far as public procurement is concerned, as regards the efficiency of spending, we will all break them down - we have done this in the previous debates, by the way - then I am not sure, but rather I say that I am almost certain that if we spent this extra HUF 300 billion effectively, then it might be worth more than this three times in a corrupt way, often not for good purposes, or if the goals are good, then spending on investments made at multiple prices. Building roads is, of course, good for the country, and it's even better for friends if they're built three to four times. Compare - a common example - the cost of building a kilometer of highways in Croatia, where viaducts, tunnels, viaducts, tunnels, have to be carried out about this, and interestingly, it is brought out of a fraction, just like in the Great Plain. If one can answer that question - no one has yet been able to, so I would like to draw attention to it - then we can move forward to how these spending can actually be used. And it must also be said that the control of these spendings is not only superficial on the part of the Hungarian State - of course it is superficial, since they usually give them to enrich their friends in the right way - but the European Union did not bother itself, although we could see that there were various OLAF reports, some of which were ordered by the prosecution to investigate and then closed them. Incarcerations are virtually and even sentences rarely found when we read the news. Therefore, we would expect that OLAF reports, which, by the way, bounce from the Hungarian prosecutor's office, would at least be made public. Moreover, the European Anti-Fraud Office did not do this either, so they are also interested in it, and we see that the European Union is also interested in making it a business for the elite, and that people or even opposition representatives cannot see these spending. I would add that we do not yet know what it is in practice, but the European Public Prosecutor's Office is forecasting progress in spending EU money. Even on a voluntary basis, he did not wish to do so, it seems that the Hungarian state, the Hungarian government, would join us for now, while this can no longer be understood as a system of education, as an extension of powers, but I think that it would mean a kind of transparency, transparency, or proof on the part of the government if we could join a similar system; I think that while the distribution system is what we can expect it to be. Then it is also important to say that if we are talking about EU funds, that we should also examine - and this is not mentioned - that it is okay, that certain businesses will win different amounts for one way or another, one way or another, but if we do not look very carefully and we do not determine very carefully what they are getting - and unfortunately in Hungary, improvements driven by corrupt goals and the preference of buddies do so - this can be incredibly market-distorting. After all, businesses who do not have any friends can very easily fail in government circles, we have seen many of these, because the other company, which is less efficient, pays lower wages, produces less added value, has a market advantage by receiving these amounts to a huge extent and ruins businesses who are otherwise trying to cope on a market basis without any connections. In this respect, these funds may have devastating effects, overall. We can't see statements in this either, so I'm gonna say it wasn't an accident. And when Jobbik brought up his Wage Union initiative, you said or asked me many times - of course not listening to the answer - how we think this is going to increase wages. On the one hand, it is not that Hungarian companies could pay EU wages or German wages from one moment to the next, but, for example, when assessing these applications, it could be considered which company pays its Hungarian employees correctly, and if they considered how many times 10 percent would slip on minimum estimates on corruption channels, if they could only be spent on labour increases, so that the money in the system could be channeled into an effective control and a good distribution system, then there would be a 10-20% wage increase. Not to mention, if they were given to companies that can produce added value, then these effects could be enhanced. So the use, we have to say, is not the best here either, and as long as the strategy of the money found or the attitude of the money found determines these development money - unfortunately it determines - there is no way to expect too much change from this. When asked or raised, when we talk about corruption and corruption goals, unfortunately, we are still leaders in rankings that indicate saved assets in the offshore direction, how much money the Hungarian economy is losing, in which we remain leaders. A few years ago, British research, quoted many times, was published - and it was not only in the Hungarian context that they were searching for saved assets - we were the 12th country in the world, not in terms of saved, stolen money per capita, but in terms of absolute value; otherwise, countries such as Ukraine, Turkey, Kazakhstan, are much bigger and more corrupt. Although if we look at this list, their reputation may only be more corrupt, but in fact the problem is greater in Hungary. A few years ago, it was conservatively estimated to be about 250 billion dollars, which had been pumped out of the country since the late '80s, and I stress that this is a cautious estimate. This is two and a half times the Hungarian government debt. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I am afraid that, by the way - perhaps in 2013, this estimate - has only gone up and down in the last four years, and as long as none of these sets answers who stole these funds, where they were responsible, did the governments do everything, the governments of nearly 30 years have done to get back from this, as long as the answer is no or no, we have to think, because the fact that these money has been stolen is that it was in fact a strategy, and that accountability has not been in anyone's interest or the governments so far. That's what we're working on to change that, and next year, we'll have a government looking into these funds. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-12-04-254	Thank you very much, Congressman. Good evening and welcome. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would like to inform you that the remaining timeframe of the KDNP Group will be transferred to the Fidesz Group. I'd like to ask you to redesign the time frame. Now, before we continue the debate with a two-minute speech, as the first speaker, Mr Szilágyi may hope, but he can only hope because, on behalf of the Government, Secretary of State, Eszter Zsuzsanna Vitalyos has applied. Here you go.
u2017-12-04-255	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Members, Allow me to comply with Mr Z. Kárpat's request and talk about the facts. When we talk about EU developments, we can talk about a lot of things, and I think that everyone is doing it in their own political interest, but I think that the most important things are the data: the number of proposals announced, the amount of funds, the number of proposals received, the number of proposals supported and the number of contracts, and the amount of payments. The figures of Hungary are impressive in all respects, however much you may not like it in opposition lines. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: How do you spend your money?]] There is no data that does not show significant progress, no data that does not stand up to international comparison. [[18.10]] In fact, I am proud to say that Hungary is among the first in comparison with the 28 Member States of the European Union for all important positive indicators. Not only do we say this because it would not be credible, but the European Commission also says and thinks so, and it confirms this at each of our deliberations. Last spring, we gave you an account of our work, our achievements. So here are the figures that I think we should be proud of, and you should be proud of, if they had no other political interest. The period since the previous political debate date and, as a result, the most important figures of the 2014-2020 cycle. 128 new calls have been launched, increasing the number of calls from 418 to 543. Overall, the announced funding budget increased by HUF 760 billion, from 8692 billion to 9453 billion, by 60 thousand projects increased, by 53 240 projects supported, by 52 802 projects contracted, and, most importantly, the number of projects with payment increased by 83 355 units. The latter figure means that the amount of payments increased by 1558 billion, with a total of HUF 3454 billion, taking into account only the resources of the 2014-20 cycle. I think these data speak for themselves, but it is also true that there is a lot of work behind good data, a job that obviously relies on the bad experiences of previous cycles. For example, we took part in the very spoiled design of the previous cycle 2007-13 by the MSZP-SZDSZ government and the start of the cycle. It was a seizure effort to bring back the previous cycle, because in 2010, when the government changed, we were faced with a huge loss of resources, and a loss of resources threatened our country. That was how bad it was to prepare and start the cycle. There was a huge institutional system with minimal results. Today there is the reverse: the much smaller institutional system works with much bigger results. What Congressman Bana said about the uncertainties of the transformations is simply not true. There was no uncertainty, both the institutional system and the beneficiaries were seamlessly adapted to the new set-up. I have to recall two very important data that perfectly supports the fact that the use of EU funds is indeed a success. Without a loss of resources, we closed the previous period of between 110 percent and 07-13, despite, as I said, forecasting a loss of almost 25-30 percent at the end of the cycle. You were the sinking ship we took over, by the way. Even though there was a vast system of institutions, among all the midwives, the child was lost. Even in 2015, even when closing was supposed to be dealt with, we launched calls for proposals in order not to lose funds. So we saved this sinking ship by the end of the previous cycle. The institutional system has been significantly modified, the tenders and payments have been accelerated as far as possible, the application programmes have been adapted in accordance with the interests of the country, and we have fought harshly against all claims to the contrary and we continue to fight corruption. We have eliminated the outsourcing of the tender evaluation, which is what we are fighting against the so-called "bag" people. Between 2010 and 2017, in the nearly seven years of the two Orbán governments, the amount of subsidies paid to beneficiaries now exceeds HUF 10 000 billion. This is all due to the fact that we have significantly simplified and accelerated the tendering process. There are already a third fewer data to be filled in during each application and everything is done on an electronic basis. We have also achieved that there is no need for expensive applicants. When we put together operational programmes for the new development cycle, our main aspect was what they have heard and will hear many times now, so that Hungary's competitiveness will increase, so that 60 percent of the funds will be allocated to support, directly or indirectly, economic development and job creation, and in particular to small and medium-sized enterprises. By the way, the professional press is constantly confirming that this is the case. We believe that the best possible investment in our country's future is to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. Otherwise, we had a broad consultation before all the calls for proposals were published in order to really support the areas that we really need to support. Mr Bana also mentioned that our country is on the blacklist of OLAF. Well, I must disappoint you. Just the other day, the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control listened to OLAF officials who said that in no way is an irregularity around the use of EU funds, neither in terms of number nor in terms of procedures. Unfortunately, the Hungarian policy uses OLAF as a tool, the number of private announcements is not by accident double the number of other Member States in Hungary. I would like to note, to Mr Szilágyi's concern, that the European Commission had just transferred HUF 201 billion to our statement of expenditure last Friday. This year we will send out a statement of expenditure to the Commission, and they promised that they will be reimbursed even this year. So, overall, I think that it is not the use of EU funds that is pathetic, but that a successful, well-functioning area is being set up to fail because of their own political interests. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-04-256	Thank you very much. A two-minute speech will take place, Mr Szilágyi, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2017-12-04-257	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, I've been listening very carefully. I thought I might get some answers. I didn't get it, and he even called in Secretary of State to help me. Then tell me: is there a proposal for research and development if you have accelerated what was submitted in February 2016 and it has not yet been evaluated? Is there one or not? Answer that. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: Van!]] Or is there a basis for what I have read about their website, the website that you are publishing, the information I have provided about the fact that the amounts committed under the grant agreement are much higher than the amount awarded by the sponsor? For exactly HUF 473 million, an illegal grant agreement was concluded. Is that right or not? Or are you saying, Madam Secretary, that you are doing 60 percent of the resources to go to economic development, to support SMEs. Madam Secretary, I'm once again giving you information about your website. Don't deny it. He says 60 percent. Based on the data published on the official website, GINOP funds, which primarily target economic development, only have a contract worth HUF 1901 billion, as opposed to the entire contract portfolio, which is HUF 6518 billion. That's not even 60 percent. That's not half of it. That's 30 percent, Madam Secretary. Is this data true or not? If it's true, you're exaggerating again. But I'll tell you more. It's also your data. In the area of payments, this rate is even worse, as GINOP payments amount to HUF 820 billion based on your data, while all payments are HUF 3269 billion. That's 25 percent. Given this, it is difficult to imagine whether their promise will be fulfilled, or if what you have just said is that 60% would be spent on this, is that fulfilled. These are your records. 30 percent and 25 percent. So either they slide, or they're not telling the truth, or maybe you should ask for more help, in case others confirm that these data are real. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-12-04-258	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State can reflect immediately. Here you go.
u2017-12-04-259	Dear Congressman, As I said, we serve economic development and job creation directly or indirectly. This does not mean that it will only be from the operational programme for economic development that 60 per cent of the aid goes for these two purposes, but that, taking into account all other operational programmes, we will serve these objectives, directly or indirectly, in total, I will say it once again. So a kindergarten development, a kindergarten development, also creates the economic development objective that we have decided. Anyway, you're not just gonna have to argue with me about this, because like I said, the professional press confirms that. They keep counting and confronting the institutional system [[György Szilágyi: And the 473 million?]] With these numbers. At present, they claim that we are at 48-53 percent to reach the target and say that by the end of the cycle we will have 60 percent. Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi: The 473 million?]]
u2017-12-04-260	Thank you very much. There will be a series of speakers announced in advance. [[György Szilágyi: Why don't you answer me, Madam Secretary?]] Congressman Sándor Farkas, Fidesz representative, please.
u2017-12-04-261	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I will change the line of debate a little, if I may, because I would like to say specific things that come from everyday life and concern the northern northwest part of my region, my constituency, Csongrád county. I have several meetings with mayors and city leaders at the appropriate level, and we have discussions on the basis of which I can say that programmes that have been formulated in the TOP, but also in other respects, have been largely heard and accepted through the tender. These are being implemented and are in the process of functioning. [[18.20]] These people, living as living people, living in settlements, are very happy that these development resources are at the disposal of these settlements. But not only are there leaders, but also many businesses in economic life - I spent the whole summer visiting these businesses, not only those that are trying to obtain funds through tender, but other businesses - convincingly demonstrate that these programmes are very helpful to their work and development opportunities. Madam State Secretary referred to the 60 per cent economic recovery programme - if I may put it this way - this will be very much confirmed in the discussions that, if my fellow Members were to conduct, I am sure that they would make their statements here in Parliament in a different tone and with a different tone. As a matter of fact, I would like to say that the programmes that have been announced - we know that in the TOP programmes, cycling routes are extremely important for the Great Plain because of cycling and transportation between small settlements, but I can also say that our municipalities also have significant development opportunities in the construction of various industrial sites, but there is almost no settlement where these facilities have not been used in the expansion or reconstruction of various nursery, kindergarten and school spaces. I note here that in a significant part of these settlements - the 22 settlements that belong to this constituency - are all actively taking advantage of these opportunities, and that it has enabled them to have access to this development resource, so that we know that the municipalities had a consolidation programme, which we have not heard here today: the difficulties, the loans and the negative figures that these municipalities had previously, all of which the government has taken on board, gave them the basis to allow these municipalities to start up and apply successfully. By the county of Csongrád there will be some HUF 29.19 billion in funding within the TOP competition, including some real and tangible developments from the settlements, such as flood protection developments, which are extremely important for strengthening flood protection charges in the Tisza line, and as a separate programme, very serious amounts have been allocated, and this is being implemented and will be completed in a short time. It was a very serious problem - this was typical of almost all settlements in the country - the issue of sewage, I can say, that in almost all settlements, this problem was largely solved through these programmes. This includes the drinking water repair program. We know that the high arsenic content of Artesian waters is also a serious problem in the South Great Plain, which, fortunately, has not killed anyone in the last 150 years, but these programmes will all be implemented in accordance with EU rules. It is an undisputed issue, or it is possible to argue that unfortunately not all programmes can meet a new challenge in terms of technical content, which we are trying to eliminate today, and hopefully all of these programmes will succeed. It is important to mention in the region, because there are many social institutions and old castles in which social institutions operate, that they are also able to meet a significant part of these castle-settling programmes, in these settlements there is the capacity for reception, the empathy of the local population, that these castles will not be able to live their lives in a family-married home after being treated in accordance with today's standards. It is also important to mention the Green City programme. Almost every city in our region has entered and won the Green City programme. The Green City, the better quality of life and the spending of leisure time in a cultural environment give these settlements another opportunity. Here I could name Csongrád, Szentes and the other larger settlements, but perhaps I would mention - perhaps this much in time - the Körös-tors are a priority project for Csongrád. The water city, the fishing town we call Csongrád, has a new opportunity that is unique in the country, the Körös-torok beach development, the Körös-torian milieu, which I do not remember, and what I do not know, I am sure will serve to a large extent the local population and tourism development. I could still list the active, important points, not abuse the time of my fellow Members. I am convinced - I say it very strongly once again - that not only the leaders of these settlements, their inhabitants too, appreciate the development they can make use of by the Hungarian Government and the European Union's support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-262	Thank you very much. Our next speaker is Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2017-12-04-263	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State! Dear House, First of all, let me begin by saying that I am very sorry that no more wallets will be represented in this debate, which would otherwise be responsible for very serious resources, with very serious operational programmes with significant amounts that they should be able to account for. Or they weren't in the debate at all, so for example, EMMI wasn't here in a significant part either. [[Tamás János Schanda: Here I am all the way...]] Yeah, well, hello, good. Forgive me, but you're not in your seat. However, the NFM is certain that a wallet whose secretary of state came in for a short time told me the hurrapropaganda text and then left, and how good it would be if he were here, even because I wanted to go to this wallet most of what I had to say. I would therefore like to talk about two operational programmes under the authority of the managing authority of the NFM. One of these is the question of proposals that were previously KEOP, now called "ECHOP sources." It was just today that I had the pleasure of asking an oral question to the Minister, and I received an extremely interesting answer. I'd like to give you a brief summary of the problem. In particular, the situation is that in the 2007-2013 financing cycle - but part of it already extended over the 2014-2020 period, since the amount of these investments had to be accounted for in many respects until 31 December - so in these investments we found that the net total cost of investments and the difference between state aids are virtually converging with zero, i.e. the state fully financed these investments per settlement in Hungarian, despite which the money collected from the population is hundreds of millions forints per local authority, where appropriate. Neither the local authorities, nor the municipalities, nor even the water utility companies in the role of co-investors want to be fairly accountable for these funds. I also asked this question because we have a lot of these problems in practically the whole territory of Hungary, and everywhere with the same type of problem, so that I do not say János Lázár, we may encounter a systemic problem, and yet the representatives of the managing authority do not wish to do anything to explore and correct this issue. In fact, today the minister said that he, who is the head of the managing authority, could not do anything. There is nothing they can do when they are obviously juggling EU funds, refusing to account for them fairly, and otherwise in the self-force contracts that the NFM has to conclude separately with individual municipalities in addition to the grant contracts, it is also stated that if there is any additional amount to finance the investment, the self-force must be repaid. Nevertheless, the head of the managing authority, who signs these self-force contracts, claims here in this House that there is nothing he can do for the people of this country. [[18.30]] I do not know if you are hearing what I am saying, Mr Secretary of State Csepreghy, even because your esteemed boss, János Lázár himself, has not once, but has often revealed that the population deserves to have a fair settlement, and that clearly, clearly, show them the basic data and figures of the investment, and if so, money will come back, then the residents will get back, per settlement, per property, what they have paid and by which they have overpaid this investment. But why don't you have all this money? Why can't the municipalities account for it? Because they spent it, yes, illegally, let's say it, so not according to the law, for other purposes. All that's left to hope for is that it was spent in public. But it may not be exaggeration to say that in many cases, looking at the operation of water utility companies, we should see that it has indeed been illegally spent. Therefore, there should be an authority in Hungary today, if the managing authority, if the NFM is already unable to do so, which can actually examine this issue and correct it. Because you are the ones who say, outraged that OLAF may have so much investigation into Hungary against Hungary, quasi-Hungary, and how many reports are coming from certain individuals in Hungary. But, please, with all due respect, there is also some understanding of a resident who, if he doesn't find his truth in the water management board, in the corporate court, in the managing authority and in a single ministry, is forced to turn to such a foreign authority. In fact, no one will do so with a good taste of mouth, but in this respect we should pour clear water. The other operational programme, also linked to the NFM, is the issue of IKOP. In this regard, too, it can be said that the head minister of the NFM was over, because at his annual hearing before the previous Committee on Budgets, he was able to say to all of us who listened to him not to ask him any more questions about the M3 metro, because he, I quote, was only responsible for his financing. I asked my question because we know that the HUF 137 billion that the state spends on this investment is far from enough, it would require nearly 25 percent more costs, but they refuse to give it up, so they are increasingly trying to shrink the technical content. And I'm going to ask the Minister, "Come on, tell me, what is the technical loss that will appear in the investment, and he said that he was only responsible for financing?" But then, with all due respect, to what does the Minister give the money, how do you know what kind of contract he signs if he sees only one figure, but doesn't examine the content of the contract itself and the technical content that is attached to it? I believe that the system also needs a very serious review in this regard. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-04-264	Thank you very much. Congressman Sándor Bodó, Fidesz representative. Here you go.
u2017-12-04-265	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, working with developments, giving an opinion on them is a very interesting and instructive thing, and I believe that it motivates all public actors and all stakeholders. Without going into the details of the previous period, I think it is important to establish two very typical facts about the period ending in 13-14. One is, in particular, that the process was carried out without loss of resources. This could be a simple mathematics, in fact, but I think that the attitude of government, the attitude of professionals, is certainly a good sign that this is almost unprecedented in the region. The second is that it is an important feature that most of the infrastructure developments have been made in the settlements, which, by the way, was a huge demand. Years, decades had passed earlier, with medical clinics, schools, and I could say that the old care system had barely been renovated, and this was an important feature of this period. I can give concrete examples from the 5th Constituencies of Hajdú-Bihar, for example, the development of the 100-rail railway section between Sayol-Püspökladány is certainly a significant development; there has been a network of waste water in the area in several settlements, Nádudvar, Kaba, Báránd, Tetétlen, Sárrétudvari, Biharnagybajom; but from an economic reviving point of view, tourism development has also appeared, for example, in the case of Hajdúszoboszló. He made money for landscape protection, for example, in the case of Hortobágy National Park. But let's look at the period 14-20, because that's what we're living in. The development of transport infrastructure is clearly continuing, and I have to mention again the 100th railway line, HUF 71 billion, from Püspökladány to Ebes, which includes the modernisation of several station buildings. Let's just say, come on. Yes, this is important, because there are still a lot of people travelling by rail, and the more standards will rise, I believe, the more people will. Now, obviously, it is not enough to have a raised platform, it is now a covered platform, it has to be provided with an accessible transport option, a possibility to go on and connect, so it is obviously a complex thing. And, basically, speed and safety are natural expectations. We can also expect significant results in the area in the field of environmental protection. In some cases, the construction of a sewage network is particularly important, since the settlement is relatively close to Tisza and the further construction of water management infrastructure is justified from the point of view of the region. There is also a damaged area in the constituency, for example, the Hortobágy wasteland, unfortunately, the former bombing ground, the restoration and remediation of which is a very important task. Sadly, even in recent years, he has claimed human life. Economic recovery projects and quality economic recovery projects are also present. Here, in the case of KITE complex, the development of a precision advisory system and the results for smaller companies are visible. These are important, and they are quality content. In addition, traditional projects are present. Here in our region, basically, food developments are characteristic, and this is shown in the form of applications already won in several settlements. And the TOP, which is obviously for every settlement, I believe is a very big opportunity. I am happy to say that all 15 settlements in the constituency have a winning bid, and the smallest settlement has received more than HUF 100 million in funding. I believe that they do produce visible results. These are the results of the tender, supplemented by domestic resources, which provide opportunities in the area of health conservation and in the area of priority tourism developments, and I believe that they serve not only the development of the region, but also the development of Hungary as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-12-04-266	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman István Apáti, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2017-12-04-267	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to speak to him briefly. I would like to talk about the time factor, namely the time limits and the payment deadlines very briefly, because both of them show a rather sad picture. I am glad that there are constituencies or areas where TOP applications have been evaluated relatively quickly, but this has been a year and a half relatively quickly, which I think is shameful and intolerable. But we know about a number of TOP applications, such as in the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county 5 constituency or other settlements belonging to the North Great Plain region, where applications were submitted in May 2016 and there is still no meaningful, supportive decision. It's been nineteen months. Not to mention the fact that we have to face an unusual environment here, that there may be a shortage of money. So, in many cases, you are taking advantage of the wealth of money in relation to corruption, but there may be a shortage of money here, because when last spring the settlements submitted this, they were not yet able to account for, or only slightly, the material price increases, which have been at least 20-30 percent since then, and could not account for a larger part of the expected excess labour costs due to labour shortages. These two impacts, the more expensive material and the more expensive labour force are both at the same time, so it significantly throws away and increases the budgets originally planned to be narrower. They may not be able to achieve much of the winning proposals. It's a real problem, we've signaled this several times, and you couldn't respond to that, by the way. It is likely that the cash register will start to empty, as these funds can be prepaid from the state budget or from international loans for a while, but sooner or later, these opportunities will run out, and if they do not transfer money from Brussels, there will be serious problems. Therefore, the time limits for evaluation are extremely long, and I think they are unrealistic and nothing better in this respect - respect for the exception - than, say, in the period before 2010. But the deadlines for delivery and payment are even more tragic. [[18.40]] I said here in the public procurement debate a few weeks ago that it is not possible to develop micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, to help the construction work, whether it is a type of work or a type of work in any segment of the construction sector, to perform the service, to deliver the goods, and then to pay for the goods, to pay the service and to pay the construction fee, not only within 30 days, 60 days or 90 days, but in many cases, to pay off half-year annual delays if they receive their money at all, while these entrepreneurs, mainly the sub-contractors with lower capital, have already put their own small capital into the material, paid the labour force, together with all their tax and tax burdens. So they put everything they could into it, and then they wait for it, with very big delays, these amounts. There may be exceptionally quickly evaluated application segments where, let's say, this is faster, but I encounter this problem in a number of places. An example of this, I have just said, the TOP, there are even problems with evaluation, but believe me, it kills the remaining small and medium-sized enterprise sector completely by getting their money much later than it would be legal. They're not getting any compensation, they're not getting any compensation or compensation, they're practically running for their money. This is one of the reasons why many people migrate from the construction sector, not only the two - handed workers, but also former entrepreneurs, have hung up on the lute and prefer to go abroad, because there is much less risk to take, much less stress, and there is no doubt that they can see their money. So, there's a lot to change, so besides the prognosis, think about it. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-12-04-268	Thank you. Here comes Congressman Zsolt Becsó, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2017-12-04-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I have long admitted that there is no unnecessary work done, and this is particularly true in a county that has been struggling with the process of social and economic catching up ever since the change of regime. Over the past 27 years, the county of Nógrád has received significant resources to alleviate its problems in many forms, such as individual government decisions or the priority support of the most disadvantaged counties, but the real problem was that in the time of socialist governments in particular, it did not even receive what would have been the minimum. The lack of support, the weak interest, the four-banding of road 21 by 2010, the lag from the investor map resulted in no meaningful progress in the area of the most important indicator, and the development scissors between the county of Nógrád and the more developed regions continued to open. In order to achieve our goals in the county of Nógrád, after the change of government in 2010, we have set ourselves three important tasks: once again to be on the development map of our country, to dynamicise the economy and to strengthen the county identity. Thanks to the Government's excellent attention, the acquisition of local authorities and economic life as partners and the change in the decision-making mechanism, we have finally put Nógrád County on a noticeable development path from 2011. However, the real breakthrough and the real historical opportunity were the possibilities of the 2017-2020 planning period. In this context, the four lanes of road 21 between Hatvan and Salgótarján are moving fast. By 2019 we will make transport permanently safer and faster on this 52-kilometer section, and we will connect the area to our country's economic circulation, and we will also be able to make a major renovation on both highways 22 and 23. Thanks to the government's decision to promote rural and catching up, the county of Nógrád received specific support from the highest regional development operational programme, which is more than HUF 41 billion, but the same can be said of Salgótarján, as it has received unprecedented support for its development ideas - HUF 9.2 billion. A generous agreement was reached between Salgótarján and the Prime Minister within the framework of the programme "Modern Cities" which includes a 21 billion-dollar tourism attraction development and the construction of the Nógrád brand, the renewal of church facilities, churches, parishes, prayer houses, brownfield rehabilitation, the establishment of an oncological centre, recreational development, investments in dual training and city centre, the modernisation of transport and road development. A free business zone can be our county's four walks, and individual government decisions have become easier to reach in our county. In addition, a significant school renovation programme will be launched in our county; the building energy renewal of several institutions of the Government Office and the Vocational Training Centre is underway; we will develop Hollókő and Szentkút; there will be improvements in waste water management and treatment in our county; we will implement higher education infrastructure development; we will renew lower roads; we will create industrial parks; we will build bicycle roads; we will support innovation, we will create job-creating investments for companies; we will create pig farms; we will launch countless social catching programmes. So, we're developing Nógrád County. Dear Parliament, No matter how much we move forward, we do not think that all our problems have been solved. Employment has increased, unemployment has decreased, but we still have plenty to do in the future. The volume of industrial production is getting better and better. Next year, there will be no free construction capacity. More and more guests are visiting our county, and the number of guest nights is rising, and even wages are rising significantly. At last, in Nógrád, we will live to see whether we will be able to make use of the opportunities. I have always been an optimistic person, and I do not think that I should change for the future. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-04-270	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman Ander Balázs, the representative of Jobbik is next. Here.
u2017-12-04-271	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In terms of infrastructure development, let me make it clear here: Jobbik is not at all against road and rail development. What we talk about and what we criticize about all of this is, let's say, if these developments are not done in a thought-out way, not complexly, or if those high-cost overpriced people knock out the insurance for all normal-thinking people who see that there would be a lot of work to be done in the country, but one of these overpriced projects can take away an entire county of side network development money. This is what we object to; this is something we should not allow, and I will give you examples of this if I have to. There was a county seat, Mr. Secretary of State, where the railway station was renovated from HUF 35 billion. 35 billion forints! Why am I bringing this here? Because the IKOP project list also includes the renovation of Western and Eastern railway stations. It's monument buildings, they're part of our cultural heritage, and it's very right to renovate them. However, if, in an unthinkable way, not rethinking the functions of the buildings, and instead of transforming them into a kind of community space, these renovations take place, but simply squandering the money, then it must be said that they will deprive the country of a transport development opportunity that would otherwise be desperately needed, such as the establishment of a main transit station in Budapest. You can push this around and leave it to the grandkids, but it's got to happen sometime. However, if these funds are made for such improvements, then these, fellow Members, will be nothing. Then, overpriced. My fellow Member has just spoken about the Bishop's-Ebes line, which is a 31-kilometer long line. The original project statement was 69 billion forints, then 75 billion forints, and who won the tender? Mr. Herr Oberstromanführer [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] The Upstairs Polyhistorium: 6 billion forints were added to the original edition. How's that? One kilometer of this railway costs almost 2.5 billion forints. We have talked about this here, my fellow Member Staudt. How is it that many times in Hungary are consumed by such a railway development project, let us say, in Croatia, or I could mention many, many countries here. At the end of these hogs, we should make a very strong point, because once again, I stress, we have a lot of development work ahead of us, and these resources cannot otherwise be drained of at this level. What we still need to talk about in addition to infrastructure, we need to ask you a few questions. How successful was the use of EU funds in the economic field? Only one figure is related to this: the net minimum wage in Slovakia will be one third higher than in Hungary as of 1 January. That's how the improvements were done there. You can juggle the numbers here and show how successful we are in drawing, but you can also put success next to them. That would be one of them. [[18.50]] The other is territorial development. With regard to territorial capital, Hungary is almost completely torn apart. If we look at the 263 regions of the European Union, how the seven regions of Hungary are included, then we need to see that four of the seven regions of Hungary are among the poorest 20 European regions. This is how we managed to make use of these funds, Madam Secretary of State or Secretary of State. Then another: is there an invitation to tender, because it is true to find something like this, when it is announced that they want to support small businesses. For example, GINOP 21.6-16 called for the development of exporting innovative products. They were small businesses. Under the terms of the tender, however, it was included that the small business should employ at least 100 people and have a net turnover of HUF 3 billion. What are we talking about? For what small businesses was this tender issued then? You are also talking about the need for broad-back, muscular cities in Hungary. Yes, we can fully agree with that - but what about the countryside? What about the small village regions? By the way, we notice that these are completely described by the government, many of these small settlements that have reached the end stage of their dying. We miss the integrated rural development programme from these EU projects. This should be the answer to maintaining the 1,800 settlements of less than 1,000 people in Hungary, which carry a significant section of our past, our culture. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-04-272	Thank you very much. Congressman Sándor Hadházy, Fidesz representative. Here you go.
u2017-12-04-273	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I don't know how well they know the central region, how much they don't. The fact is that nearly 30 percent of the population live in the central region. This is Budapest and Pest County. On the other hand, the level of GDP generated is, or perhaps, close to, 50 percent. [[Dr. István Apáti: What follows from this?]] This means that the central region is an advanced region and therefore has lost a lot of development resources. That's what it means. As a result, over the past period, we have had to estimate very much all the resources that were still available. This was possible from about two baskets, one from the KEHOP, the environmental and energy efficiency operational programme, and the other from the VEKOP, the competitive operating programme. This gave us the opportunity to invest in waste water, and in the local government sphere we were able to implement the thermal insulation and energy recovery of the institutions. The municipalities were very happy about this because they enabled the institution to be maintained. The other thing I'd like to talk about is that most of this little money was taken by the capital. And it hurts us, Pest County, that because of the overspending of Metro 4 we also fell from these sources. Only the amount of corruption stops at HUF 160 billion. I don't know if this is the end, by the way. We are also pleased that the Hungarian government has succeeded in creating a so-called compensation basket to remedy the existing problems from HUF 80 billion. The reason I said the money in the capital lost during the 160 billion HUF corruption is because it is exactly double the amount that we received as a compensatory framework. From this we try to address the most important issues, repairing inland roads, repairing the internal precipitation system, replacing the missing institutions, and so on. It is extremely important that the government supports the very important issues that are essential for tourism development, and we are pleased that the preparation of the EuroVelo 6 bicycle route has finally begun, and we plan to achieve this by 2019-20. This means a backbone network along the Danube, and the settlements can connect to it. And it is also extremely important that two new Danube bridges will be built in this context on the small Danube side. In addition, it is very important for us that the Danube region has regained its old role in tourism, and in this context the government has decided on a highly thought-out tourism development programme for more than 40 municipalities. The preparation of this is under way, and this can in essence mean progress for us. It is extremely important to note that over 300,000 people have moved out of the capital in recent years, whose problem has not yet been solved. We have a lot of work ahead of us, and we trust that EU funds will continue to be available and that these issues will be addressed. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-12-04-274	Thank you. It's time for Congressman Lajos Rig, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2017-12-04-275	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Lords and Woman, In my constituency, many municipalities were pleased to hear that proposals with 100% support and intensity could be submitted. However, there was also a little bit of wormwood in joy, as these calls were opened in 2015 and the announcement of the result itself went on to May and September 2016, and this caused an increase in costs for some municipalities that could not carry out those investments. There is a county assembly vice-president in my constituency - he is also my political opponent - who uses EU funds and public money for political gain by breaking even the rules. [[A voice from Fidesz: Report it!]] He's gonna be charged, I'm telling you now. For example, Halimbán published on 17 June 2017 on a web portal on Facebook: I handed over to the mayor at the end of the school year the tender decision to win HUF 45.5 million. They're gonna renovate a school out of this. That was June 17th. There's just one small problem, it was published on 20 September in the supported applications. This decision was taken in closed session, so this information could not have gone out until then. Even the mayor didn't know, let alone the Treasury. One more, Goghan tree. 67 million TOP application for the same mayor, precipitation water, ditch, sidewalks and medical practice. Three applications, one of which was also a decision of 20 September and delivered on 14 June. I would like to ask Mr or Mrs Secretary of State how logical it is or how regular it is that a supported tender decision is a laminated sheet. If we are so serious about the award of EU funding, then let us give him something serious and not give the Mayor a laminated card, so that this is a decision in a closed session. He couldn't have come out of there. The same news in Badacsony is 784 million, and the last of it was also released on September 20th. One more violation. I have a feeling we're gonna have to go to court for this. However, let's talk about Tapolca: Tapolca had EU funding, two out of 11 applications were won, the same application company. There was a TOP 3.2.1-15, which is an energy efficiency investment, and a CLLD application with a reduced amount of 250 million. I'm glad the Secretary of State of the EMMI is here. I would like to ask what is going on with the EFOP 1.5.2, as this would be built on this CLLD application. There are many municipalities waiting to take advantage of these opportunities, but the decision is suspended. Another call came out in October, and nothing's been made since then. So much about political gain, and now, unfortunately, the Fidesz people don't hide on the spot that Tapolca was the president of the local Fidesz, who was mayor until 2014, and then replaced Jobbik and now the regent economic director at Tapolca Hospital, placed a political position there, and on live television he said that the award of the tender money without the support of the local Fidesz is not possible. That's how it used to work, and that's how it works now. If anyone says anything else, they're lying. Is he lying to you or are you lying to me? I think that this is a political entry into this application system, because you said that the success of the application is determined by whether there is a source, whether it is a good tender that has been submitted, or whether it serves local interests. There is no fourth point in my opinion that local Fidesz support is needed. If that is the case, then things are going in a very bad direction, and they should have decided without party politics. Unfortunately, Ayka is the same. If you're not the mayor and representative of the ruling party, you don't get one. [[19.00]] So with these tender money, most of which are public money, campaigning is disgusting, it's not even legal, and it's against the law, I think. But in 2018, the electorate will decide on this as well. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-04-276	Thank you. Congressman Gábor Varga, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2017-12-04-277	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, With regard to the current programming period, active participation in the development policy area is a feature of the whole department of Fejér. During the previous programming period, infrastructure developments, which were implemented, mainly started after 2010, and achieved the objectives that served the development of the county as a whole. In this area, I would like to highlight mainly KEOP and TIOP applications, which have made improvements such as the establishment of outpatient centers in the small region, which have reported a completely new centre for Aba and Enying, and a renovation for Sárbugád. Waste water treatment and cleaning projects have made the lives of communities and residents more comfortable and livable. In this nine settlements, including the last one, which has yet to be left out of the sewerage, have been implemented, since we have implemented it in Enying, Premier, Mezőfalva, Kisapostagon, Baracson, Dégen, Lajoskomárom, Cecén and Kisláng. These infrastructure investments were very necessary for the development of the southern part of Fejér county. Despite these results, there was a certain sense of shortage in the southern part of Fejér county in terms of tender activity. For this reason, not only because I was a Member of Parliament in the region, we set the goal of encouraging institutions, municipalities and businesses in the constituency to become more active in the period 2014-20. As a result, 405 applications for aid from the 5th constituency have been received so far, compared to 311 from 2007-13. The value was HUF 43 billion, of which HUF 27 billion in the period 2007-13, of which 174 were already supported. This is a 43 percent success rate. The grants were estimated at nearly HUF 26 billion for the region. By the end of November 2017, this is 60% of the aid requested. GINOP, TOP and EFOP were among the most popular applications submitted. It is a special pleasure for me that local businesses have been mobilised, as demonstrated by the 141 proposals submitted so far under GINOP, with a total amount of about 9 billion. 54 of these projects have been supported with a 45 percent success rate and more than 2.9 billion have been allocated. I also managed to shake up the municipalities of the municipality, compared to the period of the previous programme, and here I can list the displayed tender activity. The TOP has so far submitted 122 aid applications in the value of some HUF 14 billion, 57 of which received funding, which resulted in HUF 8 billion for the constituency. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-04-278	Thank you so much for hearing this. Now, please, the thing is, Jobbik has two minutes and seven seconds left, and two minutes' speaking time. So we look forward to the technique of Congressman György Szilágyi - he was the first to press the button. Here you go.
u2017-12-04-279	That is why this debate is good so that we can control ourselves. I was wrong to say, for the record, 473 million I said forints, in which case the government concluded an infringement contract, in our opinion. I would like to improve this now, because the number was already wrong, and I looked at exactly how much, at the moment, it is 525 billion forints, on which the government is most likely to have contracted in breach of the law. Thus, the government has contracted for HUF 525 billion in violation of the law. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-04-280	Congressman Ander has a serious decision to make. In a two-minute speech, there is no way to say the remaining one minute 32 seconds - the house rule is not detailed now - as a normal speech, yes. [[For signal:]] Definitely. Congressman Ander has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-12-04-281	Thank you for your compliments, Mr President, and the floor. Mr. Secretary of State! Madam Secretary! The 2016 profit rate of the Felcsúti lobby in the construction sector was around 20 percent. László Szíyj, the ally of Mr Mészáros, was able to achieve a profit rate of around 34% through his Danube Asphalt. Please give me some rational explanation that such profitability can be achieved in the construction sector in grief, when we know precisely that construction is a tool-, machine- and human resources-intensive sector. Unless it all happened in a way that, thanks to the support officers, these state projects, these tenders, which some of them have won by virtue of being a beneficiary, were abundantly, brutally overpriced. They should answer that, and if you say that there has not been any overpriced activity here, you will run into the lie I have just outlined with numbers that these projects are largely very, very overpriced in Hungary. However, if they can't explain this in a sane way, then they admit that they are increasing their beneficiaries, their own oligarchs, with these public funds. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-04-282	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The Members' speeches are over, and the political debate is closed. In return, I give the floor to the representative of the government, who has a maximum period of 20 minutes, which is not mandatory. [[Defiance.]] Mr. Nándor Csepreghy has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-12-04-283	Mr President, I respectfully thank you for the floor on behalf of the Government. Allow me to begin by thanking, on behalf of the Prime Minister's Office and the Government, all parliamentary parties, I mean those who participated in this debate, for their participation in the debate. At the end of this period, there has been a slow movement of emotions, and before everyone is put in jail by the opposition, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a separate system of tasks of government, lawmaking and justice in democracy, which I propose to do. The rules in force must be taken into account by everyone, and I think that if everyone does this for themselves, then there will be no problem. On the one hand, the past period and the development of the previous development period have been discussed, whether it was really worth turning these development money into dog fitness or whether it could have been spent more usefully. I believe that the fact that the way, content and form of the use of resources has changed significantly in the period 14-20 compared to the period 2007-13 is not factually disputed by either party in any case. We have heard almost intoxicatingly many songs in this passionate debate. However, I would like to urge everyone that the definition of the development policy target system is the sovereign authority of each government, in line, of course, with the political programme for which they have received the mandate from the electorate. This is what the Fidesz government did in 2014 when, with a clear mandate, it decided to transfer funds from the state to the entrepreneurial sphere, and to allow entrepreneurs to use much more resources than they had in the previous period, and to make much less use of state developments, i.e. taking into account the proportions. [[19.10]] I would like to warn you all that, in the debate, several times, there have been calls for the implementation of political programme points on the current government that this government has never undertaken. For example, this was the proposal of Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, on behalf of the LMP, to ask for the allocation of funds following a territorial and time-proportional principle. I would like to draw the attention of the general public to the fact that the use of EU funds and their effective use is an opportunity that, if the government can make use of effectively, it will not preserve the difference between Western and Eastern Europe, but will help to reduce the distance between the Austrian and Hungarian economies, where appropriate, and that is indeed our goal; by quoting the poet, if you don't fly, but if you take an air balloon over this landscape, you will see the difference. I would also like to mention that what Jobbik is counting with one sentence is justified on the other side. For example, the inclusion of price increases in the construction sector as a market trend and, at the same time, as a direct consequence of corruption, is more than a deduction beyond political reasoning. I would like to expect you to behave in a consistent manner, which you expect the government to have at least one position of principle, which you represent, in which you will be accountable for the decisions of the government. I think that, as mentioned by the Secretary of State, Mrs Vitalyos, and the secretary-general speaking, the speeding up of the decision-making process, together with the existing problems, can all be legitimised. Here is a question of the fact that the involvement of EU funds as a source of development in the development of a settlement or, where appropriate, of a company, works within a much more binding framework than if an undertaking based such an investment solely on market or bank resources. If a person wants to use public funds in the implementation of a development, he will undoubtedly have to calculate a longer period of time than where he does it in bank financing or in his own funding. Why? Because government bodies that manage public funds, both for opposition representatives in Parliament and for the wider public, must always be able to account for the source that they are not entitled to handle, but that they must guarantee for a political, social and economic policy purpose. I think that this debate may have included a little more party policy and less policy in the electoral process, but I think it is important that this debate could take place for the fourth time, just because it gives voters the opportunity to know what Hungary they are dreaming of through the policy programme of the various parties. Perhaps this will help you navigate to the next elections in 2018. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-04-284	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 11 December 2017. I also thank you for your work today, all of you, and those who have followed our work so far, good evening and good night. Goodbye. [[The meeting ended at 7:13 p.m.]]
