u2017-11-13-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear House, The 19th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our dear guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, On this day in 1844, King Ferdinand V of Hungary sanctioned the second Hungarian language. It's an article of the law. This law made the Hungarian language official in our country, since then the language of the legislation and the laws to be created became Hungarian, in the offices it was possible to arrange matters in Hungarian and in public education teach them in our mother tongue. This law was one of the most important decisions of the Parliaments at the time of reform. In order to commemorate this act of public law, in 2011, the Parliament gave a decision declaring 13 November to be the day of the Hungarian language. The resolution highlights that the Hungarian nation's belonging is best expressed by our main intellectual cultural heritage, our national language, but at the same time states that we respect the linguistic diversity of our country and take responsibility for the right of minorities to use their language. This day is suitable to draw the attention of the Hungarian community to the importance of protecting and caring for our main cultural heritage, which is our obligation as well as our Fundamental Law. We are pleased that the day of Hungarian language has also become an official holiday in Romania since 2015, as the role of Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin is particularly important for the Hungarian language to strengthen its identity and preserve the nation. Ladies and gentlemen, This year we celebrate the 500th anniversary of the Reformation. Let us also remember today that the Reformation played a decisive role in the completion and preservation of the Hungarian native language culture. Reformers mediated the credit in the language of the people, held the services in Hungarian, and their translations made the Bible widely available. They have thus contributed to the development and preservation of the common language and the literary language. Reformed creators and thinkers have enriched our culture with new elements. Sándor Márai tells us that we always live as much as Hungary lives. Hungary will always live as much as our Hungarian mother tongue feeds it. So let's love him and take care of him. Dear Parliament, Starting our work, I will speak first to Mr. Bertalan Tóth, the leader of the group, who has made his statement before the agenda, and let us bring justice. He's going to say it with a title. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Football is loved by a lot of Hungarians, I myself and it can be said that it is not very polite to criticize Hungarian football, it is somehow a taboo theme, but I cannot go past the fact that last week he suffered another historic defeat from the Hungarian National Team of Luxembourg. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: You're happy, aren't you?]] Because while the government spent hundreds of billions of forints of Hungarian taxpayers' money - we have now learned that from the Tao money, 330 billion forints went to sports, and a significant part of it goes to Hungarian football - it spends on this football, while hundreds of thousands of Hungarian people do not have a home doctor anywhere near it. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: How does that relate?]] They don't have access to the right medicines. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Everyone gets it!]] They don't have access to proper care, and they need to be terrified of hospital infections. And this immeasurable injustice in itself puts people's health and mood at risk, especially so that we can see that this result could have been achieved for free. Instead of billions poured into gold legs, stadiums, it might be a much better place for this money than hospitals, groomsmen, nurses and doctors. Today there is a huge injustice in Hungary, because we do not work and pay taxes to spend that money on the hobby of an otherwise not very successful soccerist Prime Minister. We don't work and we don't pay taxes to make it a stadium instead of a proper health care system. Because Hungary cannot be allowed to be the last in the European Union in terms of early deaths. It is not normal for non-performance football players to be taxed by low earning doctors and nurses. It is not normal that when the Gunnery Stadium is completed, the per capita seat will be more than the hospital bed in this country. It is not normal that a quarter of the annual deaths occur because there is not enough money and there is not enough professionals in health care institutions. Your seven-year governance has led to the fact that the Hungarian healthcare system is in ruins and that Fidesz spends less on health than it did in 2010. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: That's not true! That's not true!]] There's propaganda, but there's no Ministry of Health. There are billions of consults, but no hospital cleaning. Today, more people die from a hospital infection than in a car accident. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Dissemination of news!]] There are hospitals where whole classes close because there are no professionals. Today, three doctors and two nurses leave the country every day. In emergency departments, specialists are required to take care of first-time residents instead of specialists. Patients arriving at the time often have to wait several hours. They're promising a new super-hospital while there are institutions where there's no heat. There are some where the bandages and the blood pressure gauge are missing pencil batteries. Those who have money in Hungary today will receive care in private clinics; those who do not have it will sometimes have to wait months for life-saving surgeries. It is unacceptable that our parents and grandparents over 75 years of age do not receive funding from OEP for modern cancer medicines. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Finance!]] They may already be a burden to you. This injustice must be eliminated. That is why we need a change of government. Because we need more money for health to reach the EU average at least in proportion to GDP. You have to help young general practitioners with money, apartments, cars, because hundreds of thousands of people are not allowed without care. A long-term pay-receiving programme should provide young doctors with career prospects, perspectives. The waiting lists should be reduced and the risk of hospital infections excluded. My fellow Members, I understand that football is your first priority. For us, the health of Hungarian people - for our common future, for a just Hungary! Thank you for your attention.
u2017-11-13-2	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-11-13-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Obviously, it is possible to argue how Hungarian football performs, but that the MSZP performs even weaker than soccer, I think; this is confirmed by the voters from week to week. Remember the performance of the Hungarian Socialist Party on health care. They did not reach them alone, they received help, especially from Brussels and New York, when a month's wages were taken from all Hungarian health workers on a proposal from the IMF and the European Commission [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Past eight years, Mr. Secretary of State!]] a month's earnings were taken from all Hungarian nurses [[Anita Beringes intervenes.]] and all Hungarian doctors were deprived of a month's earnings by paying even the higher personal income tax. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] And there was no family discount. Thus, the Hungarian Socialist Party and the Alliance of Free Democrats took one month's salary from the pockets of all 95 thousand Hungarian health workers. And let us not forget that 16,000 beds have been removed in Hungarian health care. We didn't make 16,000 beds in 2010 compared to 2002, he wasn't there, there were no patients on it who couldn't heal. And let us not forget that 6,000 people were sent from Hungarian health care. Are you talking about needing more nurses? Then why did you send away 6,000 nurses under your own government? So it wasn't an important question? [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Past eight years, Mr. Secretary of State?]] You were talking about pharmacists, Your Honour. You let the drugstores slip into the hands of financial investors, and you let it happen that's why the small-town drugstores have hundreds of them. [[Nándor Gúr and Ildikó Borbély Bangóné intervene.]] - 100! - lock me up. On the one hand, they allowed privatisation without barriers, not for pharmacists, but for those who had money, to buy a pharmacy and make money from the pharmacy; on the other hand, where there is a small settlement and does not bring a luxury profit, it is safe to close it. And it took Fidesz-KDNP seven years to reverse this harmful process, and now the pharmacists are majority-owned pharmacists; those who want to deal with pharmacists are the owners of the drugstores, not the various financial investors that are networked. What means forints spent on health, honourable Member, was indeed a reduction, since during your time the money we spent from the E-Fund, the Health Insurance Fund, was reduced from 1700 billion forints to 1500 billion forints for the healing of people. These are numbers, these are facts. Then we not only recovered what you took from the Hungarian health system, the 200 billion, but a much bigger amount, and now the amount of the Health Insurance Fund will be increased from below 1500 billion to over HUF 2000 billion in the next year's budget; we have raised much more than you have taken. If I add up the withdrawal that you have done in several years, it was a total value of HUF 600 billion. [[13.20]] Honourable Congressman, With regard to hospital infections and waiting lists, your strategy was not to find out exactly what is going on in Hungary. They didn't measure either, they didn't have a single number, because they said if I didn't follow the hospital debt statewide, if there wasn't a state register of waiting lists, if we didn't have to send in data on infections, then there wouldn't be a political problem. And we said that the health care of Hungarian people was worth a sincere confrontation first, which is why we compiled a national waiting list register - there were 70,000 people on it in 2011-12, and now there are less than 28,000 people on it - because we were only able to solve the problem if we could face it first. I'm asking you to stop this propaganda based on false news so that someone over 75 years of age or over 75 years doesn't get any cancer medicine. The budget for this is increased from HUF 130 billion in the area of cancer treatments to HUF 180 billion in the budget, precisely so that everyone can receive the medicine they need to heal. As far as practices and GPs are concerned, honourable Member, there is also a task for this government and for the next governments in the next cycle, as GPs are getting older. That is why the government has launched the practice competition and the residency application, in which a general practitioner now has the right to go to a place where, say, five years ago there has been no general doctor, but has been a replacement solution, he receives a non-refundable grant of HUF 20 million for his establishment, and also HUF 4 million for the purchase of the practice - HUF 20 million! The government's program has finally reached its maturity, it has been running for several years, we have been able to load empty practices in the hundreds of sizes of this program, but this year, when we significantly increased per capita subsidies, fortunately, it was not enough to add HUF 1 billion to HUF 250 million, but we had to add another HUF 1 billion. This is a joyful news because at last more and more GPs choose to heal people in long - unfulfilled areas. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] This is the way we see health, and we're not building on restrictions like you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-4	After seven years of governance, I give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Szél, who will be the leader of the LMP Group, with the title of hope-slim promise. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We are at the point that some people here are pitiful to both the Austrians and the Swiss - and let's really look inside ourselves. Why do we want to live like an Austrian doctor or a Swedish programmer? Why is the standard of living of a crushed Finnish baker or even a Swiss math teacher such an example for us? From the point of view of the quality of life, they are just a bad example for us Hungarians, who, of course, live so well. I derived this conclusion from the speech of Viktor Orbán, the current Prime Minister, at the meeting of the Hungarian Diaspora Council, because the Prime Minister said a number of interesting things there, for example, that according to surveys, people in Hungary believe that the generations that follow us will live in a better country; that is not true, and that we will come back to that. Now, at this point, the Prime Minister began a very confusing explanation that while the citizens of the economically better countries no longer have hope for a better life, there is hope for people in poorer countries. Now, as I understand it, that means that the Prime Minister thinks it's good that we're poor, because that way we can still hope that it'll get better. Now, beyond the fact that this is a small Hungarian absurd or a strange mixture of stand-up comedy that Viktor Orbán said there, we need to ask why it would be better for us. Is it because Viktor Orbán says so? Well, he's said a lot of things. He is also fundamentally mistaken about how the Hungarian people judge the situation of future generations. The Prime Minister's favourite university has prepared a survey of what people think the lives of the generations that are growing up are going to be like. This survey showed that nearly 60 percent believe that it is the same or worse, or much worse. So the reality of the Prime Minister's statement is that here in Hungary, young people who live expect that they will have a worse fate in this country than they have now, and to a very large extent. Now, this gloom is not surprising to me at all. After years of long and hard work, the government has talked about Fidesz's desire to create the honor of work, it has actually created a wage-based society in which work, performance and knowledge are practically impossible to cope with. In this country, who works eight hours of honor, it is not certain that he can make a living. 1.2 million working people don't even have a minimum salary. The current Prime Minister always tells us how pleased he is that there are 4.4 million taxpayers in this country, he only forgets to add the price at which he achieved this: at the cost of taxing minimum wage earners, practically robbing small-time earners, removing 134 billion from the mouth of the lower three quarters of society, and giving 500 billion to the top 10 percent. It's called perverted redistribution, and it's called a people's tax system that you introduced here in this country. The sight of your government is that we are here 27 years after the alleged change of regime, and the minimum wage still does not reach the minimum wage this year; it does not help you to put it in ucas, so that there is no minimum living in this country. At my former workplace, people can have a tough life, and I'd really appreciate it if you'd leave the statisticians alone, and it would be nice for you to care more about government performance. And then there's this other buzzword that the Prime Minister uses, this economic policy that builds factories. What is the result? The fact that half a million people have now left this country, not only to the North and West, but also to the V4 partner countries, because wages are already 30-40 percent better than in Hungary. So for my part, I can tell you and the Prime Minister that what he says is not true, nor is it true that we do not need other people's money. You have received two Marshall aids from the European Union, and I say that you are, because you are the ones who spend it on all kinds of nonsense and steal it instead of investing it in productive investments. We at LMP have a completely different way of thinking. We want to be based on the country's own strength and ability, and everyone who is now angry because they work in this country from vision to blindness, and they don't come from one to two, can be certain that they will find their calculations with us. With us, in our tax system, who is on minimum wage, he gets 24,000 net from the catch, and the average wager is HUF 37 thousand. Our policy is completely different even when it comes to supporting companies. We are based on the fact that small and medium-sized enterprises will be strategic partners. Let's just say the corner baker is going to be the strategic partner and the hairdresser and the mechanic and the shopkeeper, because they're the ones who have a lot of fun with us, and they're the ones who can create and maintain a lot of jobs in this country. I would also like to tell Fidesz that the enemies invented by the government are not real enemies of the Hungarians. The real enemies of Hungarians: deprivation, poverty, fear of slipping, the fact is that parents are not sure that they can buy winter shoes for children. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Propaganda can't feed you, gentlemen. Today is dedicated to working poverty, and we present our solutions here in the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you.
u2017-11-13-6	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We're listening to you here week after week. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's our job!]] And if we had to learn from your description what country we live in, we wouldn't be in a good mood. The left talks about Hungary and Hungarians who have practically nothing to build on, have no results, and have no future in this sense. The reason for this may be that they are trying to project their own dispersal and their own hopeless situation throughout the country. We ask you, too, and the other opposition parties, not to do so; it is not because, although the left is in a huge pit, the country can still have important results. Allow me to give you a few examples, say, ten. Let us start by saying that there are many more people working in Hungary than in 2010, and there are 741 thousand more people working in Hungary today. As far as poverty is concerned, the proportion of people at risk of poverty has decreased by 730,000 since 2012. In the meantime, the economy is growing: up to 4 percent of this year's economic growth is possible. There have been years of left-wing governance when the economy has fallen by almost 7 percent. Meanwhile, wages are rising: along with the January increases, the minimum wage will be 88 percent higher than in 2010 and the minimum wage for skilled workers will double. Meanwhile, we managed to protect the value of pensions, and this year pension supplement, pension premium and Erzsébet vouchers will be added to pensioners as last year. Energy prices have been reduced by the quarter, and if it were up to you, you would have given the right to set prices to multinationals or Brussels, which, as we know, means price increases. [[13.30]] To the seventh, a well-functioning home-building program has been launched, which you regularly attack, a program that has helped 60,000 young families so far. Let me also tell you that more than 300,000 children eat for free in Hungary. This is a measure which, in principle, has not even occurred to the socially sensitive left. You didn't figure out that 85 percent of students would get the textbook package for free. Because the goal is not to have any children in Hungary who do not go to school because their parents cannot cover it. You may secretly acknowledge the importance of 40 percent more marriages than 2010 while 20 percent less divorces. Wagging his head doesn't make any sense. It is also important that the number of crimes in Hungary has decreased by less than half, certainly thanks to the fact that since 2010 there have been 7,000 more police officers on the streets. And to close the raging register: we managed to protect our borders in the meantime, even though there was a day in Hungary when 10,000 people crossed borders illegally. If it were up to you, that wouldn't be the case right now. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, Dear Members of the LMP, These are just a few examples that we may be able to talk you out of extending your moods from your own situation to the whole country. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and More jobs, gradually increasing wages, more support for families and enhanced security - these are our achievements and we want to protect them, including from you. By the way, it is not the Hungarians' fault that left-wing Prime Minister candidates fall in line. And I would also like to tell you that no one has said, no one is saying that what we have achieved is enough. Not because we do not see the end of the work yet, there is much more work ahead of us than there is behind us, but I am still asking you not to deny that Hungary is moving in the right direction with rapid steps. Because if they do, they question the work of millions of Hungarians [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] They ignore - please don't shout - and the work is underestimated by many things, but not credible left-wing politics. Mr. Bertalan Tóth and you, please do not listen to Ron Werber, do not root against the Hungarians. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-8	Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, on behalf of Jobbik, has applied for a pre-meeting speech: a government agreement or truth? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-9	Mr President, Dear House, There is indeed a question of pact governance, as Fidesz-KDNP is doing, or will the ladies and gentlemen concerned be willing to move towards justice, as it is outrageous that, as long as thousands of families are struggling with their foreign exchange debt, evictions are still taking place - [[Dr. Pál Völner:]] Don't smile, because you know very well that it is so - they're trying to get a hero and his family members out of their property once again next week, so to get rid of the property, and I really hope that there will be a fidesz representative there to face the people that this tragedy is happening. But while all of this is happening, according to the latest data, the profits made by credit institutions in 2016 are generated by a record income of HUF 456 billion, and after achieving HUF 175 billion in the first quarter of this year, the banks that you claim to have been accounted for, allegedly included in the scope of public burdens, can expect a further massive mass of profits. However, the fact is that of the banks concerned only the OTP banking group achieved consolidated profits of nearly HUF 80 billion in the third quarter of 2017, which is 14 percent higher than the one year earlier. So it seems that in Hungary, the commercial institutions involved are achieving record profits on Hungarian customers. I would like to say that according to Jobbik, healthy economic circulation requires well-functioning commercial banks, normal lending under the rules, in a much more extensive way than now, but in no case should profit or free robbery be allowed at the expense of customers, especially according to the fact that Viktor Orbán has previously stated that banks should be more seriously involved in public burdens. On the other hand, while this was happening in the communication space, what happened in the space of reality? The government reduced the rate of the bank tax to 0.21 per cent, i.e. more than half, or completely abolished the credit institution's allowance, and only in the period under consideration resulted in a budget loss of 100 billion, which could not be spent to improve the situation of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit, but could be fully credited to the commercial banks concerned. In what environment is this happening? In a medium where the number of enforcement procedures peaks. The number of 900,000 is known, of course there are company cases, there are cases involving individuals, but it is undisputed that it is a huge number that breaks records, and more than a third of these are cases that are actually backed by irrecoverable claims. It doesn't matter if it's real or untrue, because there's no collateral to enforce all this. We also see that, meanwhile, Fidesz-KDNP has renounced foreign exchange credit victims, made a pact with the Banking Association first, and then in February 2015 with the EBRD, where it promised at the highest management level that it would not impose any additional burden on the affected banks for the benefit of the victims. But even this self-rewarding promise was doubled, as in the light of the above figures, the commercial banks concerned were awarded and assisted with hundreds of billion-dollar items. And last week, the outrageous situation arose that the executive branch itself, some of its leaders, announced that they were thinking that the right to walk might help certain debtor groups. Where there's really nothing left to collect, to take away from people who have been eliminated, at least let them go free. Jobbik has been saying for years that, let's say, in the case of a private bankrupt institution, conditions could be facilitated to create a system for that unfortunate debtor to be released as a free man after a few years and no further debts. At the moment, we are saying that Fidesz-KDNP is the only barrier to this, and you alone are not willing to negotiate even the right to walk, let alone introduce all this, at all. We see that, while there would be room for budgetary manoeuvre to improve the situation of credit victims, only after restoring the original public burdens of the banking sector, you will not show any openness in this direction in a cosmetic way - which I am otherwise in favour of - the moratorium on eviction will be announced a little sooner, I would like to stress that, in the meantime, the stakeholders will be working on it. They intend to leave the house evacuations in bulk after the election. At the same time, we will not assist, we will not watch this without pure action. I must state that Jobbik would restore the half-percent rate of bank tax, and we will naturally return the credit institution's allowance after the government has been formed, but right now it is up to your conscience whether or not more families can be destroyed until the elections in Hungary. I don't want that to happen. I look forward to your substantive response. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-13-10	Mr. Secretary of State Pál Völner has the floor.
u2017-11-13-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I was very surprised that you used the word "supplier," because the last time in the political force, it was the Simicska-Jobbik pact that revolves around the most. That, as a representative of such a party, under pressure from an oligarch, foreign exchange credentials are being embraced, this is merely a political catch. It is well remembered that last Monday was a full day of debate on the question of foreign exchange credentials, who were interested in it - except, of course, the MSZP, who, as the triggers of this case, did not bother to appear in the Parliamentary Chamber - they may remember that I mentioned to you that this issue should first be discussed in the benches of the opposition, and then there is only one thing to do to acknowledge the efforts of the governing parties in this area over the last seven years, taking into account the requirements of the Hungarian legal system, the Fundamental Law, the European legal system and the way in which the decisions of the Luxembourg court, the Constitutional Court and the Curia have been taken. But what were these steps that you didn't vote for most of the time? We remember very well the question of the exchange rate barrier, where we were able to limit the amount of repayments at a fixed rate, the institution of the end-payment, where we were able to free more than 170,000 families from the imprisonment of the foreign exchange loan, and we remember the creation of the National Asset Manager, which saved 36,000 families from those who had no chance of paying off their debts. We continued to secure their housing by buying these apartments from state resources, where they could continue to live there for a reasonable rent. So all the allegations that the government didn't do anything are lies. [[13.40]] Not to mention that we did manage to get the banks to account, because the unfair profits of the banks resulting from exchange rate conversion, bank charges and interest rate increases had to be reimbursed to the debtors, and by doing so we were able to ease the burden on families by hundreds of billions, with a total of HUF 1000 billion, and help the situation of foreign exchange lenders. The phrases that are related to this are completely uncredited. The introduction of the exchange rate barrier and the help of foreign exchange legitimists were not supported by the vote of your president, Gábor Vona, or the Jobbik fraction; and the MSZP fraction, of course, did not support it. Debating that it would have helped the debtors is simply a lie. The LMP did not vote in favour of the establishment of the National Asset Manager and neither the MSZP nor the LMP voted in favour of the final repayment. Only because of what you have done in the last seven years, when you could have helped those who were in such a vulnerable position with at least one push of a button: in 2013 only 9 representatives from Jobbik's 43-member group, while 6 out of the 48 MSZP fraction voted for the extension of the eviction ban. In 2011, the majority of the MSZP fraction did not vote for this extension, and 25 MSZP representatives did not care about foreign exchange credit families. 16 Members of the LMP did not vote in favour of the amendment of the law at the time, and in 2010 when we started the introduction and extension of the eviction moratorium, 27 socialist Members did not consider it important to help those concerned in this way. I think that you should first discuss why you did not support these actions against the ruling parties. As far as your comment on the banks is concerned, a banker did not exist before. The bank tax was an exceptional story when the country was in a vulnerable economic situation and it was able to stabilise the country from the excessive deficit procedure. Moreover, there is no link between the situation of foreign exchange lenders and the stabilisation of the budget. It is just to be recognised that in such a vulnerable economic situation, when the IMF, the European Union and everyone were sitting on our shoulders, we practically wanted to regulate Hungarian economic policy, we were able to take on an independent policy, and despite their bans, we were able to help this vulnerable person with over 1 million currency credits. And with the forinting, hopefully, we have managed to close this issue in a way that will lead things in a sufficiently good direction. That would be more of a compliment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-13-12	On behalf of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Gergely Gaal has applied for a speech entitled 'A destructive moment'. Congressman's got the floor.
u2017-11-13-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, It is always depressing for a growing community that has a clearer and clearer role in the world to have members who do not identify themselves with the plans and visions of the community as a whole as a result of a need to comply with low faith, selfishness or external interests. So it is a great community, also in the case of the nation. There is an emerging political group in Hungary, the Momentum Movement, which defines itself as a new political generation, whose first major action was to collect signatures against the Olympic Games in the capital of their own country. The selfish goal of small faith and rapid entry into national politics at that time was, unfortunately, enough to break the momentum and prevent it from developing spectacularly in recent years, and today Budapest, which is one of the most beautiful cities in the world, is now united by international public opinion to host the 2024 summer Olympic Games. This act, in itself, shows the spiritual status of a movement, which in this case means that anyone who wants to do something will find a way to do it, who doesn't, will find an excuse. Their attitude toward excuses has taken away the possibility of making a great dream come true from their own nation, once again confirming the truth of the old claim: it is always easier to destroy than to build. Dear House, We have heard about this company again these days, as the Curia has decided on a new referendum initiative for Momentum, in which civil society law on the transparency of organisations funded from abroad was challenged. According to press reports, they're gonna start collecting signatures on this case in the next few days. As the possibility of national cooperation has been weakened by the Hungarian Olympics, their current action threatens the security of Hungarians. The civil law which they have challenged is due to the transparency of the organisations that support migrant policy and immigration in accordance with the principles of the Open Society Foundation established by György Soros and recently supported by $18 billion. On the other hand, the Hungarian government has been making very serious efforts for years to respond to the labour shortage and demographic crisis, not according to the recipe of Western Europe, but by strengthening Hungarian families, and in the long term we can preserve our culture, identity, faith and country. In the previous national consultation, it was also apparent that 99 percent of the respondents supported Hungary's defence, so Momentum's current signature collection action also goes against the will of the majority of Hungarian people. To put it this way, you might as well be able to support a real national case, and if you were able to find a way in this direction, you could easily find a case that might be involved. Here is an opportunity for this: last week the Hungarian Permanent Conference took place with the participation of Hungarian organisations from abroad and the parliamentary parties from the motherland. The final declaration of the MÁÉR supported the European citizens' initiative to protect the rights of indigenous minority communities in the European Union with the unanimous support of the participants. The goal of the so-called Minority SafePack is to ensure that not only official languages and dominant cultures, but also indigenous minorities, are fully members of European society. The final document of MÁÉRT encourages representatives of Hungarian organisations to provide as much information as possible on the importance of the initiative. It is a matter that can have a major impact on ensuring the rights of Hungarian and other indigenous minorities living in the countries of the European Union. With the support of this real European and genuine national issue, the emerging momentists could testify that they are willing to stand up for matters that are truly important to the Hungarian nation as a whole. If you really want to win the trust of the Hungarian people, you should support this real national issue, and in this you could have a calm conscience in your password: now let's go beyond it, now let's get into it. That's how you end a destructive Momentum. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-13-14	Once again, Mr. Secretary of State Pál Völner has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, Dear House, It is assumed that the desperate action of the Momentum, which you have just presented with this signature initiative for the referendum. No more than a move to protect the Soros György network, since the subject is clearly designed to protect organisations called civil society that do not want to make their farming transparent, they do not want to reveal their background abroad. It is clear that the Momentum has a political interest in preventing transparency in the functioning of pro-immigration organisations. On the other hand, Fidesz is in favour of publicity and transparency. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] Organisations operating in an opaque form in Hungarian public life should not be allowed to take part in the class of which foreign financing is not known. The migration crisis that has hit Europe as a whole has also brought about a new situation on this issue. Hungary stopped migration through border fences, but the Soros organisations took action to prevent Hungary from protecting its borders, thereby endangering the safety of Hungarian people. In spite of the fact that around 1.7 million Hungarians and 99 percent of respondents made it clear that the operation of Soros organisations that actively support immigration should be made transparent at the latest national consultation, the Action Plan to protect the Momentum Soros network will be implemented. As always, the Hungarian government is on the side of the Hungarian people, who have the right to know which organisations receive significant support from abroad, and this is particularly true if these organisations attack the domestic democratically elected government and its actions for political purposes. [[13.50]] Today, transparency is more necessary than ever, as you, Congressman, have pointed out, György Soros supposedly helped out the Open Society Foundation with $18 billion. It is more than likely that they will use this substantial financial support to support pro-immigration organisations, which are also provided for in the Foreign Funded Organisations Transparency Act. By the way, this $18 million could help more than 500 thousand people per person, counting the HUF 9 million proposed by George Soros, and how useful it could be to spend it in the countries from which immigration moves towards Europe! You may not have thought of that yet, but we are very happy to provide you with this idea, whether through Momentum or other organizations. The migrant organisations associated with the name György Soros operate out of untraceable foreign subsidies, they want to bring migrants into Hungary, and they are also working with all their might to influence Hungarian public life, including the coming [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Hungarian parliamentary elections are also intended to intervene in our internal affairs. It is impossible for Hungarian political life to become a playground for foreign power factors, and I believe that every voter must have knowledge of both the operation of these organisations and the activities of the Momentum. I very much hope that Momentum can only be included in the Hungarian Parliament during such speeches, and we will have virtually only moments of memories that such an organization has ever existed, and most of the Hungarian voters will know who is behind them, why they manipulate the Hungarian public, and why they are trying to use this referendum to clear them or keep them in a blur, whose open intervention can be detected in more and more cases, can be documented with cases, and they always react with terrible sensitivity to it in both the Hungarian and foreign press and to accuse the Hungarian government in all foreign forums of its non-democratic desire to tolerate only transparent organisations in the country. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-16	As the last member to speak today, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Gulyás, the leader of the group:, Is it now Verhofstadt's turn? He will address his speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-17	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Last week we learned that the leader of the liberal faction of the European Union had a very specific idea of the operation of the states, since Verhofstadt thought that the President of the European Parliament had the right to enlist a Hungarian ambassador, and he thought that he, the Liberal faction, had the right to speak not only about the Hungarian national consultation, but to try to prohibit it. I believe that, if we look at the case of immigration and the events of the last two years, it is not by chance that the liberal faction has a fundamental problem with any proposal of a nature that would call for the opinion of voters in this matter, because what they have been representing for a long time on this matter would only be held in a dictatorship and only in a dictatorship. Wherever democratic elections were held, the vast majority of voters even in Western European countries rejected immigration policy that would allow unlimited freedom, and under the pretense of freedom it would actually create anarchic situations that we all experienced in 2015. We see that nothing is expensive for Guy Verhofstadt and the liberal faction, that European liberals are willing to trample Hungarian sovereignty even with their feet in order to interfere with Hungarian internal politics. We believe that the national consultation is a democratic opportunity for expression. If you don't like it, don't use it. However, we call on everyone who disagrees with the need to tell us from Brussels what immigration policy Hungary should conduct, to take a clear position on this issue, and to make clear by returning the national consultation sheet that it is opposed to the Soros plan and behind the Hungarian government on the issue of immigration policy. Unfortunately, we cannot say in Hungary that there would have been a national unity on this issue, although if we looked at the opinion of the voters, the opposition would also have an interest in having a national unity on this issue. Nevertheless, the European Parliament representatives of opposition factions repeatedly vote in favour of decisions that would result in a resettlement quota without a ceiling, vote in favour of decisions that would punish countries that are unwilling to participate in the distribution of immigrants who have arrived illegally in Europe, and see that the opposition supports all steps in Brussels that would undermine and weaken the powers of the nation state in immigration policy, and that they would be passed on to the European Union. Once again, we draw the opposition's attention to the fact that it has not yet gained anything by reporting Hungary to the various institutions of the European Union, it has been a political loser of its position against Hungary and the Hungarian government at all possible forums. That is why we have today come to the conclusion that there is not a change of government atmosphere after more than seven years of Fidesz governance, but a change of opposition atmosphere. It should be said that it is possible to argue that there are people who want a change of government, some who do not - according to opinion polls, they have roughly the same camp as those who want the government to remain, those who want the government to leave - but there is full agreement in Hungarian politics that Hungary deserves a better opposition, that the opposition should be replaced, because the opposition is fundamentally unable to perform the task that opposition parties and opposition factions should perform in a democracy. One of the main reasons for this is that they are not willing to support the Hungarian position in national matters where, by the way, voters have reached full agreement with each other. For example, the issue of immigration. Not only do Balliberal parties have serious debts here, but let us not forget that Jobbik was one of those who thought the amendment to the Constitution, which they also thought was right, was not voted, supported, and thus the constitutional limitations of immigration policy, the expanding powers of the European Union, were prevented here in Parliament by the votes of Jobbik. So we are calling on everyone once again to stand in favour of Hungary in European fora. We see that the procedure under Article 7 is being prepared. The outcome of this procedure cannot be any result, everyone knows precisely that the procedure can no longer be successful in the case of a veto of a single Member State, and everyone knows that there will be a Member State that vetoes in the case of Hungary, so there is no point in another attempt by the opposition's representatives in the European Parliament to desecrate the Hungarian government and, through it, Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-18	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If we want to summarize what has happened in Brussels over the last few weeks on the quota programme in one sentence, we can say that the resettlement programme has also started to be in concrete in a legal sense. The first step is indeed the committee vote in the European Parliament. Here too, in this House, it has been decided to implement a mandatory permanent resettlement procedure without an upper limit, in which all countries, i.e. Hungary, should participate. It is no longer voluntary, it is not a matter of taking into account the views of national parliaments, because if that mattered, there would have been no such decision. It is an aggravating fact that family reunification would also be facilitated, and if that were not enough, they would also want to introduce a separate legal procedure to target immigrants from third countries, such as Turkey, including Hungary. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] This is a codecision procedure, which means that, in principle, several EU institutions, such as the Council, the Commission and Parliament, will take the final decision together. Yeah, but the problem is, he's doing it in a procedure that's almost completely behind closed doors. If this regulation is double-crossed, this also means that we will not be able to change it later. Dear House, In these circumstances, a decision is taken on a case that affects the lives of all Hungarian and European citizens. This is a gross mockery of all the common European values that exist. Friends of the resettlement programme, let us say they are called, pressured by various methods to give in and start receiving immigrants. There are legal blackmails, financial penalties, as the Head of the Group said, the instigation of Article 7 and the usual disdainful classifications. These include the invaluable verbal amok run by the liberal leader, Mr Verhofstadt. [[14.00]] In its statement, the European Economic and Social Committee adopted its opinion on He referred to the darkest chapters of the century. Well, that's what we're reminded of when people are forced from one place to another by quotas based on Excel tables. It's a lot, but it's not humane. One of the attempts to exert pressure is the re-organization of a hearing on Hungary in Brussels. Here, a number of Hungarian organizations will be given the floor, they will be invited, which are otherwise funded from abroad, and which regularly report Hungary and weaken the country's defence capabilities on immigration. Now we understand why these organisations do not want to register themselves and admit how much support they receive from abroad. The third method of break-in experiments is of a financial nature. It is clearly stated in the regulation approved by the European Parliament that the financial resources of countries who reject the resettlement programme would be maimed. And the fact is, Mr House, that in all of this, the opposition has a very unworthy role, because here they deny the resettlement plans, and then they are voted slylyly in Brussels. It was voted by MSZP, voted by LMP, and Jobbik approved these plans on a commercial TV programme. On behalf of you, Mr Niedermüller voted in favour of this regulation on behalf of the opposition and voted in favour of the left. And listen to his interview at Clubradio, he's made it clear that he thinks it's the right thing to do. Well, we don't think so; we don't think so. 'Cause the thing is, we're not gonna watch a garbage can shake hands on a case this big. There is still the possibility of giving weight to our opinion. This is the way for as many people as possible to participate in the national consultation. If other EU governments had taken a deep breath and asked citizens about immigration, we would not be standing there now that Europe is practically the only part of the world that leaves its gates wide open, freeing itself from a bunch of problems and not solving any. We need to come out of this situation. We have something to lose, which is why the government is calling everyone to act and stand together, because our freedom and security have been too expensive to lose them for anyone's sake. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-20	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2017-11-13-21	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Sándor Bodó, Fidesz; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; György László Lukács, Jobbik; István Ikotity, LMP; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik. On Tuesday, the following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda: Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; István Ikotity LMP; Dóra Dúró, Jobbik; Rózsa Hoffmann, KDNP; Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz. On Tuesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Nándor Gúr, MSZP. No one came forward after the agenda on Wednesday. On Thursday, he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dóra Dúró, Jobbik.
u2017-11-13-22	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, It is up to you to discuss and decide on the immunity case. I would like to inform you that the Békéscsaba District Court is the 14th B.222/2017/5. In his order No. 13, Ákos Hadházy applied for the suspension of the immunity of Parliamentary Representative Ákos in a private charge. I gave this to the immunity committee to examine it. The immunity committee is H/18353. Mr Ákos Hadházy presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. I ask the honourable Member if he wishes to speak first. [[For signal:]] Yes, you wish, I'll give you the floor within a five-minute time frame... apologies. Excuse me, Congressman, I apologize. I should have given the floor first to Congressman Harghitai, who will speak on behalf of the committee, and then you will receive it. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2017-11-13-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The immunity committee discussed this ominous matter today, which took place on 11 January 2017, when a statement by Congressman Hadházy appeared in the Békés County Newspaper, and Mr Simonka considered it slanderous, and therefore filed a complaint against the Member. The story is already common: Mr President, he perceived violations of public procurement or lawlessness, and Mr Simonka thought that he had been slandered in this case. The point is, and I didn't say when this was happening by accident; it's happening at the beginning of the year, it's the end of the year when we're discussing this case. This shows that something slipped with the authorities who had to deal with it. I'd like to get back to that. The report is sent to the Central Detective's Attorney General's Office by Congressman Simonka, who appreciates what's in the report, and they say they don't consider it a public case, so they determine their lack of jurisdiction and transfer it to the Gyula District Court. Having examined the case, the Gyula District Court says that they are not competent, they will be transferred to the District Court of Békéscsaba. Well, that's where the cases slip, Békéscsaba, because the Békéscsaba District Court only deals with this issue in August, if only it hadn't, because the Békéscsaba District Court invites the parties to a personal hearing. Both Members are in this procedure. It is clear from the filing documents that this is a matter of Members of Parliament, but the court secretary who conducted the proceedings did not consider this to be a problem, he continued the proceedings according to their order and manner, and informed the parties that the court would notify them by setting a hearing. At the time when the question comes into the hands of the judge at the district court, he perceives that there has already been a violation of the Member's immunity by establishing this personal trial and submitting the documents to the Parliament. So the immunity committee has determined this court's violation of Congressman Hadházy's immunity by not immediately sending the documents to Parliament in order to suspend immunity. However, the Committee also stated that Mr Hadházy did not comply with what he was supposed to do under the parliamentary law, because in 2012, when the Act on Parliament was drawn up, Parliament laid down very clear rules, and I would like to say this here, so that we can all learn from it. In such cases, if the authority initiates proceedings against us, the Member - the law says - must declare that he is a Member of Parliament. This doesn't usually happen. There's only metaphorical references here, though I'm telling you, it could've come out of the documents. If, however, the authority initiates proceedings against a Member of Parliament in such a case, the Member shall immediately inform the Speaker of the House, as the law says. Mr Hadházy, on the other hand, did not do so because he was probably unaware that his immunity had been violated. At today's session, the Parliamentary Committee, following its unbroken practice, has decided not to suspend Mr Hadházy's immunity and to ask the House to support this motion. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-24	Thank you, Mr. President. And I now give the floor to Congressman in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. But I'm asking Parliament to suspend my immunity. So I'm asking you to release me. They say I can't, but I'm asking you to suspend my immunity. I am deeply appalled by Congressman Simonka's procedure, especially the procedure they do in the vicinity of Pusztaottlaka, but I am deeply disturbed by this charade. You can sue me, you can say you're suing me, but you know very well that the immunity committee and immunity will protect me, and I'm not the one who's hiding, and I don't want to hide behind my immunity, but he wants to hide behind my immunity. I really wish we couldn't do that. The case is amazing: the company of one of its family members received HUF 20 million in EU money for melon and pepper tasting. He did a public procurement - a quote-marked public procurement - rather a family procurement, because he hired another member of his family to taste melon and pepper. From these and other cases, it was possible to draw the conclusion that I drew and the opinion I gave in the Peaceful County newspaper. To my surprise, one or two of these appeared. [[14.10]] So once again, I certainly don't want to hide behind my immunity, but I want Congressman Simonka not to hide behind my immunity. I'm very happy to go to Békéscsaba, I have grandparents in Kunágota, Medgyegyesháza, it's amazing to go there, it's amazing to go there. I think everyone's doing very well to be there as much as possible, and then you'll see what the Simonka family is doing there, and what the D.A.'s office noticed. When I asked Péter Polt whether Simonka's family members were involved in an investigation involving arrests, I did get a positive answer. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-13-26	I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Members of Parliament Ákos Hadházy. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has not suspended the immunity of the Member by 22 votes in favour, 117 against and without abstention. We now move on to interpellation and immediate questions at 2:10 p.m. Dear House, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Why did one of the leading centres of child diabetes care have to be liquidated in Miskolc? ! It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2017-11-13-27	Ladies and gentlemen, This year... [[General noise.]]
u2017-11-13-28	And the rest of you, please pay attention.
u2017-11-13-29	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In the spring of this year, in the spring of 2017, Miskolc was formed a super-hospital. I'll put it in a subpoena that it's a super-hospital. It's a post-op. This hospital was founded at Semmelweis Hospital and County Hospital. The reasons were that it would be better for the workers, reducing the burden on the workers, as they could better rationalise the processes. The other reason was that it would be better for patients, because they could get better care faster and better. Well, half a year goes by, we don't see too much of these two yet. That's it. I'd like to make a simple finding. The principal of this hospital is Sándor Tiba, brother of Fidesz Parliamentary Representative István Tiba. A lot of people say there are no coincidences. We don't know why the situation has turned out this way, and why it's not better if it's already... [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] And why isn't it better that way? What are the first steps? What's happened since then? The Children's Health Center has been terminated. It was removed, and its leader was removed. His contract was signed by 2020, it doesn't matter, it was removed without justification. A 40-year-old institution founded by Professor László Velkey was liquidated and terminated. While they say they were having a super hospital, they basically eliminated educational, scientific work, research, medical background, base. While they were giving birth to a super-hospital, they knocked down a bulge of pediatrics, an icon that produced for 40 years. While, as I said, a super-hospital was born, while the child's diabetes institute ceased to exist, it ceased to exist as a base for professional supplies. National educational, research base has been eliminated. Doctors are on the move. Residents aren't coming. Residents who applied 7-8 in the previous period now have their application numbers converging to zero. Why did one of the leading institutions and centres of paediatric, diabetes care have to be liquidated? Why are they destroying even what has worked excellently over the last decades? Thank you very much.
u2017-11-13-30	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Perhaps the only benefit of your comment is to learn how the socialist fake news company works. In the case of the hospital in Miskolc or the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Hospital, there is indeed a process of changing the text in which the Child Health Centre is renamed the Center for Children's Health. The reading of this is, therefore, based on the current socialist rhetoric, that the Children's Health Centre will cease to exist. Honourable Congressman, It doesn't go away, it just gets a new name, it gets the name of the center, and you try to perform it here in Parliament, as if full child care were to cease in Miskolc, it would cease in this new unified super-hospital. Of course, there is no such thing, since the same people can continue to work for the benefit of children in the same place. In addition, the transformation, which concerns management, management technology, but not medical operation at all - I say, only with the expressing of the centre, is changed - this transformation has been made in full agreement with the president of the Hungarian Pediatrics Society and with the agreement of the Medical Faculty, and in essence there is a change of structure and renaming from the centre to the centre here. He, who was the former head of this Children's Health Center, continues to carry out the tasks of Deputy Director of Science and Education for the entire large integrated hospital, working as head of the department. There is no reduction in care for infants or children, in the same number of hours per week, there are the same experienced doctors who have so far, neither the care of children, nor the professional level, nor the accreditation of the institution, only a change of name that you are leading here as an end. The other sentence is, you said here that 7-8 residents had applied before, and now there are zero residents here. Honourable Congressman, Zero is 17, because in addition to the 7-8 residency applications you mentioned each year, 17 residents continue to work here. You're here in Parliament interpreting this as zero people. Thank you very much for the conscientious work of those who do so either as residents or as specialists. But you've got plenty of hospital closure in your criminal record. Remember the Children's Hospital in Svábhegy, which was, but no longer exists; the National Psychiatric and Neurological Institute, OPNI, which you closed; the Szabolcs Street Hospital, which you closed; or the Schöpf-Mere Hospital, where you could help families with a lot of difficult births. It was a national institution, and many babies owe their lives to being born in Schöpf-Merei. You have closed this institution, which is an irreversible blow to Hungarian health care, because there was a medical team there that could cost years to reassemble. I would also like to mention, honourable Member, that the residency support programme will continue to be applied because we have planned for HUF 8.2 billion. That's why there are residents in this number, either at the hospital in Miskolc or elsewhere. So you've done enough to really call you the government of hospital detentions. But contrary to the closure of the MSZP, Fidesz-KDNP was building renovated hospitals and new clinics. We've renovated 77 hospitals all over the country, and you've only heard about closures. We've renovated 54 clinics and built a new practice in 23 places to bring quality care closer to the patients. 30 new rescue stations were built, while you didn't buy an ambulance in your last years, we built 30 new rescue stations, and by now the number of refurbished rescue stations has exceeded 100. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It was 97 a month ago, and now it's 104. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-32	I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-11-13-33	Thank you very much. They ransacked health care, whatever he says! [[Defiance, noise in the ranks of the governing parties.]] What they did, they were able to do because of the eight years before the present eight years' bid money. It's not a new name, no, and then you're gonna have to look into the process a little bit more carefully. It's irresponsible, what you're doing! It's a crime they're committing to children in terms of the eradication of diabetes. They can't build, so at least don't destroy it. The only thing that matters to you in this world is the man and the child. It doesn't matter. All you care about is yourself, and all you care about is the amount of money that's stolen for your friends in terms of redistributable resources. By the way, what you're saying about the residents, you know, I was talking about the applicants' residents, whose numbers are down to zero, they're converging to zero. So, compared to that, you're going to accept what you're saying, and you're going to have to think about what you're thinking and what you're saying. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I can't accept that answer. Thank you very much. [[14.20]]
u2017-11-13-34	The lesson from this, Mr Secretary of State, is that if you do not commit the inexplicable act of replacing a Hungarian word with a foreign word, then this interpellation will not take place today. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What is it?]] I ask this House whether it accepts the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 112 votes to 26, with no abstentions. Now it's time for Jobbik's representative. Mr. Tamás Sneider has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Lack of resources, lack of space, lack of labour - is this what the social sector is worth and deserves according to the government? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-35	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We have been doing this for a long time and it is time to see that the social sector is facing huge problems. In the county of Zala, the Red Cross sought the assistance of the state for the further operation of the signalling home assistance. The answer was that the amount of aid will not change next year. If the Red Cross can't operate it, they'll find someone else. We'll be wondering who's gonna be able to do the Red Cross's work at the same level. Here, I would just like to remind you that Jobbik has been proposing for a long, long time to build a national signalling system so that we can provide the elderly with much better living conditions. Meanwhile, the social waiting list included nearly 30,000 registered persons in September. And the actual number of people waiting is estimated to exceed 41,000. Based on the data, the elderly fill the waiting list. Three quarters of the waiting population want to be included in a service of elderly care, and more than 90 percent of all waiting needs apply to residential institutions. The sector is suffering from an increasing shortage of workers in addition to those who are provided and the crowds in need of care. This is an increasing problem in the area of human health and social care. According to October data, there are over 7,000 unfilled jobs in this area. In the absence of adequate material and moral appreciation, this will increase in the near future. Understandably, in Germany, Austria, there is a minimum monthly net salary of 1500 euros for almost half a million HUF. In the meantime, the minimum wage for social workers and workers in Hungary will be around 90 thousand forints. Is this the social career model? You think that's what helpers deserve for their sacrifice? Unfortunately, it's clear that you don't care. They refuse to notice that both basic and specialised care are suffering from a huge lack of resources. They refuse to deal with still humiliatingly low sectoral wages. They repeat it as a mantra: workers in the sector are valued, sectoral payments continue to rise. Dear Secretary of State, What would it take to deal with the wage structure, service development and expansion of social and child welfare areas that have so far been treated as step-by-step? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-13-36	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government's goal is to make everyone feel safe in Hungary, feel safe either in terms of public security or in terms of social security. And if he needs it and his family doesn't have the opportunity to support it, then he can count on the state, because that's why he paid his social security contributions for the rest of his life. That is why we have also tried to help in recent years - although it has indeed been in a difficult situation and the sector is still clearly not in a fully satisfactory situation - from many, many directions. If you look at this, honourable Member, for example, regarding the number of professionals taking care of elderly people, disabled people or otherwise in need, you can see that while in 2010 the state paid 85 thousand people to help those in need, this has now increased by 93 135 people, i.e. 8,000 people who care for those in need of social care. If you look at those with professional qualifications, so not technical workers, but those who are really there, if not next to the sickbed, but right next to the person in need, their number has increased from 67 thousand to 77 826, so the number of people who already have a professional education has increased by 10,000 to help those who need it. You were talking about people waiting in nursing homes to get a seat. On the one hand, we have also tried to improve the quality of care in nursing homes by modernising 3,000 seats out of HUF 8.9 billion and creating 300 new, modern, modern seats as a surplus. And if you look at how the size of the items spent on caring for elderly people in residential institutions in a very difficult health situation has changed in the budget during our administration, then you can see that this figure, when we started our governance, was HUF 55 billion, and now HUF 95 billion. That's how much we've increased the amount of money that can take care of old people. That the 95 billion could be further increased? Yeah, maybe. However, the rise from 55 to 95 is a good number, and we have finally been able to do this with the strength of the Hungarian economy. If you look at how much space available to the elderly has grown during our administration, and in the meantime how much the number and proportion of pensioners, the number of elderly people have increased, you see that although there is such a waiting list, not as much as you said, but less so that multiple applications have to be accounted for here, but about 21 thousand people are actually waiting to be in elderly care, so while the number of pensioners in our period has increased by 8 percent, the number of residences is 11 percent. So when we governed, there was a greater increase in the institutional population of older people than the increase in the number of older people. This is the path in which you can actually serve the goal you have set, not only in words, but in actions. Of course, this required additional resources. And if you look at the case of home assistance, which you've been referring to here: here the number of caregivers has increased by 40 percent, from 75 thousand to 107 thousand, and in addition to the quality of care, it should not be that 5700 people have provided 75 thousand people before, and now the same 5700 people provide 107 thousand people, so we have increased the number of caregivers, but to a much greater extent than the caregivers, because here we have raised the number of caregivers from 5700 to 13 400, we have more than doubled the number of caregivers, while the caregivers have only increased by 40 percent. Nevertheless, wage development is a very important issue, honourable Member. But he was here to vote on the budget. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The possibility is that you will support this, as we will increase the wages of the people working here by 65% overall, this year by 5 percent, and next year by 5 percent. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-13-38	I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2017-11-13-39	Dear Secretary of State, I can't accept this list at all, because there is a number of things that I would be able to disprove here at once, but it's only gonna take me a minute to get this question, but I'm looking at the data from 2000 to how the number of seats changed, for example, in the case of residential elderly care. [[He's showing me a document.]] It's a fraction of what you've done in the last eight years compared to the numbers of the previous period. That's what you've said, practically misleading your own representatives and public opinion. It's not true at all that we're talking about a raise. You are raising surrogates, honourable Member; there is a huge difference between the two. Please, you may not get a replacement, you don't know the difference, but you can always take the extra. Just to see if you're here, I'd like to see how much social workers make today: $119.000 is the average salary. I'm just looking at one: a cobblestone worker, a craftsman earns 556 thousand forints now. Is that how it's going to be in the social sector? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] How many do you think will leave the social sector like this? Thank you very much, I won't accept it again. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-13-40	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the House whether it accepts the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 111 votes to 21, with no abstentions. Erzsébet Schmuck, R. Benedek Sallai, and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development. It's an address. I give the floor to Congressman Ikotity.
u2017-11-13-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, [[14.30]] Hungary is a place where people who are forced to live exclusively from their work will most likely spend their lives in poverty. Workers' poverty in today's Hungary is not an exception, but a rule, and as long as it is so [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] No government can claim to be doing a good job. One of the main causes and symptoms of poverty affecting the masses of workers and pensioners is also what experts call energy poverty. According to relevant statistics, 30-40 percent of Hungarian households live in energy poverty. About four million of our compatriots live in a way that in the winter months they are forced to get cold for financial reasons or disproportionately burdened by the payment of fuel, and take money away from the medicine or even food, or force them to accumulate debts during the heating season. As you know, a heated home on our climate belt is a vital necessity that is a prerequisite for ensuring our fundamental rights guaranteed in the Constitution, above all the right to a healthy environment. In other words, the state has no freedom of choice in helping people to do so. If it creates relations that millions live in energy poverty, then the government violates this fundamental right and rights of millions of Hungarians. You have spent years with a delusion called a reduction in costs, while the share of people living in energy poverty has not changed to a demonstrable extent. Many people who did not need it, including themselves, but who did not solve the problem have their energy bills cut, and the poorest third's vulnerability has not been reduced. For example, the price of fixed - line gas has fallen, for example, when the lowest incomes do not heat with fixed - line energy carriers, and the prices of coal and firewood have increased sharply. And in vain, it is written on the accounts with colourful graphics, how good it is for us to prevent Hungarian families from keeping their heating costs down permanently, in a sustainable way, through the diversion of meaningless criminal taxes and EU subsidies, by replacing homes with windows, modernising heating and renewables. So please, the resiliosung [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What a beautiful Hungarian word!]] If you don't mind answering the question, do you think that only the rich have the gays and will the government accept that 3-4 million Hungarians will spend this year in the cold, or will do something for those who, for example, have not achieved their steps in the category of political advertising, by accepting the LMP's social gas tariff proposal? I look forward to your honored answer.
u2017-11-13-42	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-43	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You are constantly questioning the result of the reduction of the rent, constantly questioning the government's energy programme; you, who have neither supported nor supported the reduction of the rent today, because you do not support Paks II. the construction of the building, which will allow the maintenance of the reduction in overhead costs. If it were up to you, there wouldn't be a firewood program either, because you're a green couple, and on the advice of your advisor - but I see you've only increased your uncertainty - you don't know whether to support the firewood program or to protect the forest. It is clear from his every word that you agree with those who played the Hungarian utility companies, the Hungarian power plants, into the hands of foreigners, and thus served the Hungarian families. Foreign utility companies, I just want to remind you that over 1,000 billion were taken out of the country. From January 2013, the government reduced the consumption prices of electricity, natural gas and district heating from what you call a fraud. With this, he left 170,000 forints a year with the families. Just what that means: it means what you don't appreciate is that the price of basic energy sources has been reduced by 25 percent. The Hungarian families saved more than HUF 1133 billion between 1 January and 17 October. If it's nothing to you, if it's a hoax to you, then please don't listen to your advisor, because he's giving you bad advice. Moreover, the reduction of the overhead costs also had a positive effect on the reduction of debt previously accumulated. As a result of the reduction measures, we guarantee an affordable supply of energy to the domestic population, as not only the overhead costs have decreased, but we have not increased the service charges either. Hungarian families and pensioners are protected during the coldest period. You know very well that through the application for social fuel, local authorities provide substantial assistance to those in need, those in distress, and those in crisis. In the framework of the firewood programme, 3 billion HUF is available last year and 4 billion HUF is available this year. We consistently strive to ensure that domestic consumers continue to obtain energy at affordable prices. Official price regulation guarantees stable final consumer prices for Hungarian families. The government is pursuing a family-friendly economic policy with national interests in mind. As a result of tax cuts and wage increases, more money remains with families, the economy is growing, Hungarian consumers are safe, Hungarian families are safe. In the unexpected case, if you do not accept my answer, I ask that the Parliament do so. Thank you, Mr. President, for your attention.
u2017-11-13-44	I ask the Member if he will accept the reply of the Secretary of State.
u2017-11-13-45	Dear Secretary of State, You are fully aware that the reduction of the overhead is also a fraud because energy prices have fallen on the world market and have not followed it at all, even in its proportions the change in energy prices in Hungary has not followed this fall. These represent hundreds of billions a year, which increase the extra profit of Fidesz-near companies instead of staying in people's pockets or investing in energy efficiency investments if they hadn't diverted these EU funds. With regard to the firewood programme, Mr Secretary of State, the firewood programme does not work. They do not receive sufficient quantities of wood from municipalities, and if they receive, it is also poor quality, fresh cut, wet wood. Eurostat has already shown that there has never been such a high level of wall theft in Hungary and that burnt, low-quality, wet firewood poses a very serious health risk [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I mean, he's got a lot of smoke coming out of him. I don't accept your answer, Mr. Secretary. You can't be serious about accepting this.
u2017-11-13-46	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 110 votes to 24, with no abstentions. Imre Vas, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. If the interests of György Soros need to be protected, then Hungary is subject to different deadlines in Brussels, or another manifestation of double standards? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As is known, the 2017 LXXVI on transparency of NGOs supported from abroad. In July 2017, an infringement procedure was initiated against Hungary in respect of the examination of the compliance of law with EU law. On 5 October 2017, the Commission received a reasoned opinion, which brought the infringement procedure into a new phase. It is common practice that Member States have two months to prepare a response. In contrast to the Commission's usual practice, the Board required a month to express the Hungarian position, so they should have received a reply by 5 November 2017 instead of 5 December 2017. Following George Soros' visit to Brussels, this is not the first time Brussels has applied a static procedure against Hungary. The two-month time limit for replying to infringement procedures in three cases has been shortened by the EU seven times in total, in six cases one month and in one case two weeks. As a result, Hungary had to make its comments in parallel on three particularly complex infringement cases - quota, transparency of civil society organisations and amendment of the national higher education law - with unduly short deadlines. All three cases are clearly related to György Soros, CEU is affected by the Higher Education Act, the civil society law aims at transparency of NGOs it supports, while in the quota case, the government sought to prevent the introduction of the Soros plan without any cap. [[14.40]] On this basis, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what the Hungarian Government can do to eliminate the application of the double standard applied by the Commission to Hungary. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-48	Mr. Secretary of State Pál Völner has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, As is well known, the European Commission announced in July that it would launch infringement proceedings against Hungary on the basis of the Foreign-funded Organisations Transparency Act. Unlike the two-month deadline in accordance with the general practice, the Commission has once again given a month to prepare the Hungarian response. From the outset, the government's position is that Brussels is also attacking this law under the pressure of the Soros organisations, so they want to put pressure on the Hungarian government to implement the quota decision and let migrants in. We are confident that the Brussels procedure has also started to be politically ordered on the Foreign-funded Organisations Transparency Act. We stand by the law because the transparency of foreign-funded organisations in the immigration crisis affecting Europe is very much needed. These organisations are at the forefront of supporting migrant policy and immigration. Hungarians have the right to know which NGOs receive significant support from abroad. We also find the procedure particularly outrageous because the Brussels Commission has repeatedly set much shorter deadlines for replying to the proceedings, adversely affecting Hungary. It's a double standard that we reject. Hungary, with due regard for the principle of loyal cooperation and trusting in the effectiveness of the constructive dialogue, has, so far, kept extremely strict deadlines for replying to the issue. Each time we made a request for an extension of the deadline to the Commission, which souvenirs rejected it without valid justification. In our view, this is arbitrary pressure, which clearly violates Hungary's right to a fair trial and defence. In view of all this, the Hungarian Government has decided to send its reply to the reasoned opinion to the Commission with a two-month deadline in accordance with the practice of the decade, until 5 December 2017, which properly ensures the informed preparation and finalization of the Hungarian response letter according to the usual rules. Hungary is committed to continuing the dialogue, but expects that its right to defence will not be undermined. The Government would therefore like to demonstrate that it does not agree with the Commission's practice that has now been developed, because this violates fundamental rights of defence. Brussels must therefore accept that there is no discrimination between Member States. And perhaps you should also explain to the Commission why it is precisely in these three cases, which have a clear political motivation, that it has used this statarial instrument and why it does not provide the time limit that has been set by the well-functioning practice so far, which has provided the opportunity for professional discussions to be carried out, for the various legal precedents to be revealed by professionals and for professional responses, and not to reply to letters sent to political orders. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-50	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2017-11-13-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I accept Mr Secretary of State's reply. I think they did the right thing when, according to decades of tradition, the answer will be given within two months, since we did not read either Hungarian law or a procedural law in foreign law, when there are those who have so many deadlines, there are those who have more deadlines to do the same procedural act. I, too, believe that the principle of equality of arms applies to Hungary in order to be able to develop its position sufficiently and to defend itself in the given procedure. Thank you for your reply, Mr Secretary, and I accept it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-52	Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Have the five points of the State Secretary been fulfilled? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2017-11-13-53	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, It cannot be said that the secretary of state for health taking up office would have made a lot of effort to outline a long-term concept that would change the state of health, instead identifying five points. He didn't care much about the fact that there was a debt of the patient and of the healer; he didn't care that there were huge differences in the provision of care; he didn't care that there was a large exodus among doctors and professionals; he didn't care that the debt of hospitals would continue to grow, nor did he particularly care that more than a third of all health spending now comes from legal or semi-legal private pockets, an otherwise free or unpaid health system. Instead, he had five points. Just to remind you of these: be chancellors who control the spending of the otherwise little money with iron hands and also care organisers, be a super hospital - and we would be pleased to have the heating in the hospital sometimes - and care more about the general practitioners - for whom we have just put administrative burdens on them - otherwise we need to obtain information about the patient and his relatives' health and history from a data protection point of view, and these included the creation of programs. I would just like to point out that health care, after the Semmelweis plan no longer exists, does not have a valid health document on development. So, that's what the Secretary of State wanted to do. He retired most of his points, by the way. In public, he argued that he did not wish to be exposed to the opposition's attacks by, say, eliminating chronic beds in hospitals where those sitting there have only one sin: not only are they old, but they are even sick. So I think that asking what has happened to these points is a minimum justification, even if they have not affected the essential health problems - because they have not been affected. It is appropriate to ask why the Secretary of State, who has not dealt with the main health problems, has not been able to make progress in these matters, has given up on it and why. So what about the general doctors, what about the super-hospital, why do we have to kick sick and old people off chronic beds, what happens to the general doctors, who have just been burdened with new tasks, where are the valid medical documents, why don't we care about emigration, better organisation of hospital capacity, why don't we care about the gratuity money that poisons relations in health? And I could tell you more. I'd like an answer to that, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-13-54	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We don't have to go back so far that we don't remember the points of the socialists regarding health care: visitation fee - pay the patient - hospital daily - pay the patient - hospital safes - it's good for the coalition partner - withdrawal of HUF 600 billion - because we need other money - debt to hospitals - we'll have to pay after 2010 - closure of hospitals, dismissal of 6,000 medical workers. These were the points that the socialists implemented during their own health governance. One of the most important tasks for us was to increase wages in health care; because wages have been artificially low since the 1950s in Hungary, then from a worldview punishment, and after the change of regime, it was not possible to get into a better position from this not-good position, and it could not change the merits of any previous government. [[14.50]] Therefore, only this year's budget - which you did not support - contains HUF 82 billion as an additional resource, an additional resource for health wage increases. And if I look at how much more we are going to spend on health next year than we spent last year: overall, 402 billion is a surplus of health spending, and most of that is precisely a health wage increase. As a result, a health worker whose basic salary was 106 thousand forints in 2010 will have a gross salary of 226 thousand forints by 2018. And if I look not at the basic salary, but at the full action, i.e. including the mobile wage elements, on duty, other over-work expenses, then this can go up to HUF 340 thousand, while in 2010 it could only go up to HUF 172 thousand; it's a nurse. If you look at a specialist who has 19-21 years of work, while he had a basic salary of 197 thousand forints in 2010, this HUF 197 thousand is now 510 thousand. Let us not forget, you have reduced the health wage, since a month's earnings were taken from all Hungarian workers, yet the basic salary is now increased to HUF 197 510. And if I look at the amount of the earnings, so the various on-call fees, additional work, mobile wage elements are on it, it may have increased from HUF 364 thousand to HUF 855 thousand if someone is on average duty in the healthcare sector. These are very big advances, and we will certainly continue to do so, as you know that the wage increase in nurses is not for a year and not for two years, but for four years we are constantly raising the wages of nurses, first by 26,5 percent, then by 12 percent, and later by 8 percent, so that we can say that between 2012 and 2019 we have doubled the wages of Hungarian workers and Hungarian hospital nurses. In addition to this, it is important that the program is launched, the development is implemented in 25 co-hospitals in Budapest and Pest county, a new super-hospital is being built in NewBudapest, only this year we will spend 40 billion forints on hospital development in Budapest. Part of this is planning, part of it is buying instruments. It is also important that we devote 14 billion forints to the development of child emergency and child accident care at national level. The waiting lists were reduced from HUF 17.2 billion, with less than 28,000 on the waiting lists instead of 70,000. These are important achievements, perhaps the most important, which are reflected in wages. The socialist government could never achieve this in Hungary, it could only cut wages and squeeze me into health care. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-56	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2017-11-13-57	Dear Secretary of State, I know that your Corifestes are very fond of filming George Orwell's 1984, especially the pages that are being studied that the past can be changed. I am telling you this because I would like to remind you that we have reduced wages by making a 50 percent wage increase in the public sector in a unique way. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] And you're happy to turn those pages from this book, where the password is "Ignorance is strength." Because it takes some amazing ignorance, Mr. Secretary, to tell a system that doesn't work, that this is the best of all worlds. Secretary of State, more than 50 percent of your voters are dissatisfied with the operation of the health system. [[Peter Cseresnyés: How do you know that?]] It's more than opposition, but that's irrelevant. Therefore, to say that everything is fine here and that the results are enormous, that is ignorance, Mr Secretary of State, I do not want to call it anything else. Mr President, I do not accept the answer.
u2017-11-13-58	Congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 96 votes to 23, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development:. Does institutionalisation make sense? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2017-11-13-59	Mr President, Dear House, We have to say that the car society in Hungary is exposed to forms of scarring that have been raging the nerves for years, but since 2010, it has not been seen to be a systemic change in order to alleviate these repulsive processes. Not only are we thinking about the traffic taxis, we are not only thinking that it is possible to call off at the State Secretary level if appropriate, so that petrol prices can change - at least that is what the press reports are about, let us not discuss this in more detail - but most of all, that the situation with regard to parking, parking supervision, parking regulation has developed in the big cities and the capital. Emphasising a metropolitan district: find a private car park company with hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue and, if any, billions in volume, but in the municipal register all this appears in about zero ways. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Thus, there is no substantial municipal revenue from the fact that a parking company, which, once again, I stress is in private hands, carries out various charges and tributes, with or without justification. Therefore, the whole system would need to be revised. And Jobbik, of course, shares his points in this regard for many times, for which there is no meaningful answer. Therefore, I would like to point out three, roughly yes or no questions, towards the replying Secretary of State. If you answer that in a minute, you'll still have three minutes to fire the usual political lounges. So I don't want to take away your bread or even the minutes needed for the performance on which the premium is based, but we have to say that we should have a yes-no question on three points. The first of these is clearly whether the government is open to reviewing the whole parking system and opening the gate, so that the municipalities take responsibility for the organisation and supervision of the parking system into their own hands; therefore, where there is no need for it, they should eliminate private companies which, although pulling down the car society by billions, do not enrich the local government, nor really anyone within the members of the Hungarian society except themselves. The second very important issue is the examination of the traffic control efficiency of paying parking as a whole system of institutions, because where it has no traffic control or traffic improvement results, the question arises on what basis car parking is to be paid to motorists in Hungary or in large cities if they do not receive any compensation for this. Obviously, this is a professional debate that needs to be held, but at least let us open this debate. Thirdly, I would like to hear from the State Secretary concerned how many hundreds - much more necessary - would be for P+R parking in large cities and Budapest: how many thousand - parking places they wish to set up in the next one or four years, since we see that they are two cycles behind, actually making the life of the car society unlivable. These specific questions therefore require concrete answers, without delay. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-13-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will answer the interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-13-61	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, No, no, no, no. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Honourable Congressman, Your question is similar to when the one-time man received a call from the IRS that it was his last call and he was pleased that the IRS had ceased. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]] Parking costs money all over the world. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Not everywhere! Interviews from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Moreover, its rules are also imposed in Hungary for an area and period where the average number of seats suitable for waiting for vehicles exceeds 70 per cent during that period. So this is also regulated to this extent. By the way, regulation is a district and capital competence, and it is fundamentally determined by law, in line with the general European regulatory principles, and its review is, to the best of my belief, not justified at the present time. Honourable Congressman, I think, more than that, I am convinced, that if you have to do such definite questions at the master's command, then I ask you to look for another subject, because this subject is not suitable for causing harm. The current parking system, what is more, the entire road use system in Hungary, I believe that it is exemplary for road users to get to the road they use under favourable conditions, helping traffic to move to safe and faster motorways. [[15.00]] According to all surveys, the current vignette supply is exhausting road users' needs. I would add that 70 percent of these revenues come from foreign users, so basically it is not the Hungarian road users, as you say. This is true of the parking system, but certainly also of the toll system. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the area, more commonly known as county sticker system, whose success proves that people are willing to pay if they are provided with a safer and faster means of transport. The rate of the waiting fee is regulated by the local government regulation within the framework of the legislation, as I mentioned. The municipalities concerned form the tariff districts according to the traffic conditions in the municipalities and the size of the public areas that can be designated for waiting, so that, while we are talking about the capital city, they differ from each district and within the district to a completely justified extent. I would like to ask you to evaluate these when considering the acceptance of my answer. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr Dániel Z. Karpa if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2017-11-13-63	Mr President, Dear House, We've known Mr. Secretary of State as an elegant man, but at least his various pronouncements are calling this into question. Secretary of State, you have received specific questions, legitimate questions on a legitimate professional front. We question whether the current parking system, where car drivers are pulled down by billions, fully plays its role as a traffic controller. If you're saying you can't open a debate on this, you're not telling me, you're referring to the car society. I didn't talk about motorways and track stickers, but I'm guessing you got some answers to that in your pre-written file. When people are forced to buy for 10 days without a 24-hour track sticker, it does not mean that they accept this burden because they want to, but because you force them to pay for an unused service, Mr. Secretary of State. And I'm sorry, but it's unworthy of you to speak of a master and a master's command. You have made a deal with the EBRD, the Banking Association, you are working on an external order, and in this case again you are not willing to open a debate against the interests of the Hungarian people, I repeat, on a professional question. Shame on you for the style of the answer. I don't accept your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-13-64	Congressman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I respectfully ask the Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member Mátyás Firtl, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. What are the experiences of the Workplace Protection Action Programme, how has it helped in the last five years? It's an address. Congressman Mátyás Firtl has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-65	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The legislative amendments to the implementation of the Action Programme for the Protection of Jobs were adopted in 2012. The action programme was submitted by the Fidesz-KDNP government to the Parliament to help the economic recovery by using effective tax policy instruments that contribute to the achievement of the objectives by protecting and creating new jobs, as well as by strengthening the role of predictability and simplicity in the tax system. The package of measures set out in the Action Programme can be divided into three main groups: tax incentives for employers with regard to employment, new forms of tax available to businesses, and measures to support the financing and administration of businesses. The first group consists of a targeted reduction of the employer's tax burden. The action programme offers benefits here in the groups of workers where the level of employment in Hungary is significantly lower than in the European Union. These groups are 15-24 years old, 55-64 years old, low-skilled and women with small children. The action programme also supports the location of long-term unemployed beyond 6 months. The amendments to the legislation relating to the implementation of the Action Programme for the Protection of Jobs also provide a significant degree of social contribution tax and vocational training contribution to employers of workers who are disadvantaged from the point of view of the labour market, to the preservation of existing jobs and to the creation of new jobs. Dear Secretary of State, In the last five years, the Fidesz-KDNP administration has, of course, continuously revised the system, depending on experience and economic performance, and has modified it in light of this. The action programme has facilitated the employment of 650 000 employees in the first year, and employers' costs have decreased by nearly HUF 100 billion. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State what the experience of the Action Programme for the Protection of Jobs has helped this area, this sector, in the last five years. Thank you very much and I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to Mr Cseresnyés Péter State Secretary will be on the question of interpellation raised by the Member. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-13-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary has taken serious steps towards full employment over the last seven years. As a result, the number of people employed exceeds 4 million 450 thousand people. The Hungarian employment rate is now higher than the average of the European Union, while the unemployment rate is the fourth lowest in the ranking of the 28 Member States. Since the change of regime, KSH has not measured such high employment and such low unemployment in Hungary. In the domestic competitive sector, 560 thousand more people are currently working than in the period before the change of government, as in 2010 Hungary was still the driving force of Europe in terms of employment. Domestic employment success is essentially due to the introduction of government measures that at the same time stimulate the demand and supply side of the labour market. Economic policy measures have created conditions for growth, while domestic employment policy has placed the targeted support of the most disadvantaged sectors in the labour market at the heart of the measures. No programme has so far provided as much support for keeping and creating jobs as the job protection action, which has reduced the burden on employers by more than HUF 570 billion since its introduction in 2013, and is now constantly promoting the employment of over 900 thousand disadvantaged workers in the competitive sector from the point of view of location. But not only in terms of maintaining existing jobs, but also in terms of job creation, this support scheme provides differentiated tax incentives for individual target groups. The largest proportion of the supported population is almost 40 percent of those over 55 years of age. On average, after the employment of some 350 thousand workers over 55 years of age each month, companies used the tax reduction. The second largest group is made up of unskilled people with 350 thousand, while the third is young people under 25 years of age. In the first eight months of 2017, businesses used the support on average after some 165 thousand young people. The number of young people supported has increased by more than 50 percent since 2013. The results achieved speak for themselves. In the case of the unskilled workforce, the employment rate of those with eight general staff improved from 7.8 per cent to 17.8 per cent, from 20.5 per cent to 30.8 per cent for those with eight general staff, from 19.3 per cent to 28.1 per cent for young people under 25 years of age and from 45.1 per cent to 59,6 per cent for workers over 50 years of age since the change of government in 2010. [[15.10]] After these figures and figures are presented, I would like to confirm that domestic businesses will continue to be able to rely on tax incentives for the job protection action in order to increase the number of jobs and improve their competitiveness. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-13-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Mátyás Firtl if he will accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. The figures in the economic policy of the Fidesz-KDNP justify the implementation of the Christian Democratic and Christian social values, which are largely put into practice in the economy, in the economic results that have been created in Hungary. It has also contributed to the creation of a work-based society. Ladies and gentlemen, It does so in a way that in recent years it has been constantly giving and not taking away. This is the economic policy that the Fidesz-KDNP administration is carrying on, and we must continue to do so as the Secretary of State has said that we can expect it in the future. Thank you for your reply, I accept that. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-13-70	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck and MEP Ákos Hadházy, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: When will the Ministry's secrecy be over? It's an address. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-71	I don't know who's gonna answer. [[For signal:]] I don't know, Secretary of State? Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, the LMP has had to deal with a number of corruption-related issues involving the odds of disadvantaged workers, including social cooperative networks with criminal issues. The most serious problem with these is that this form of co-operative was mainly used to network off EU funds, from which we can often think if we only look at the name of the cooperative. There are always Tennis Social Cooperatives, there is Hungarian Sailing Social Cooperatives, Fraternity Nimfai Social Cooperatives, Applied Research Development Social Cooperatives, there are independent Language Teachers Social Cooperatives and Energy Efficient New and Used Opening Finals Social Cooperatives. In the framework of one of the TÁMOP applications, the Simonka empire also appeared, and three co-operatives linked to Pusztaottlak could not lose, among them the Co-operative of Workers also timed the formation in July 2013. From tourism development to callcenter, they have undertaken everything in the applications for producers in the region. So it's been written that they want to help producers in the region, and they want to create call centers, and the paper can handle everything. From April 2013 until the end of 2016, we also looked at how the activities of the social cooperatives, which multiply in mushroom mode, developed: business advice for 984 companies, i.e. those in disadvantaged social needs, worked in 984 companies as business advisors, and employment loans were reported to 869 companies, which of course have nothing to do with the most important of the cooperative principles, i.e. the direct employment of local residents, so it is suspected that tax fraud, the statistical data of which we asked about in vain at this portfolio. Mr Tallai State Secretary, we do not know on what grounds he refused to respond to our request for data in the public interest. It is also interesting for the cooperatives of the network that they typically do not have any revenue. By the way, it is easy to create employment by having members in these fake cooperatives. Dear Minister or Secretary of State, Has it been investigated what has happened in this area, which should have increased employment opportunities for disadvantaged regions instead of being abused? In the light of the Mengyi, Simonka or even the Czeglédy case, before the introduction of a new type of pensioner social cooperative, such investigations would have been justified in our view. We don't know why this didn't happen. Thank you. [[Erzsébet Schmuck applauds.]]
u2017-11-13-72	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the honourable Interpeller that only the Secretary of State who sits in the horseshoe from that purse can answer. Because you should know that according to the house rules, the answer must be from the horseshoe. Accordingly, the question will be answered by Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-13-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Let's just say the government doesn't want to interfere in any court case, doesn't want to give an opinion. But you have no influence on the work of justice when you are trying, on a political basis, to push your party into Parliament for the next parliamentary term. I'm thinking of you, because you're the one who's been flooding Parliament, the public with half-intel and fake info from week to week, which turns out they have nothing to do with the truth, the reality. And I'm sorry, it's not true that I refused you any answer. I answered you within 11 working days. The fact that you don't like this because your political goals weren't my answer, and I'm sorry, you can't say I didn't answer that. So I don't think that's true. Honourable Congressman, The general conclusions on the aid schemes are found to be unfounded. With the creation of social cooperatives, the government aims to provide jobs for disadvantaged registered job seekers and public workers and to receive additional benefits compared to the employment replacement allowance. I would like to say a few sentences about the TÁMOP call mentioned in the interpellation. Based on the information provided by the EMMI, the call for the development of the social economy, convergence in the regions, will help to strengthen the economic activity of social change, support the development of human resources for social cooperatives and increase employment opportunities for disadvantaged people. New and functioning social cooperatives can apply for the call. I would also like to say that the government wants to give jobs to all people who want to work. The fact that we work well and the Hungarian people want to work is exactly what the numbers show. Every month, there's an increase in employment. During the July-September 2017 period, the average number of employees was 4 million 451,000, 60,000 more than a year ago. The employment rate of 15- and 64-year-olds rose to 68.7 percent. The average number of unemployed people decreased by 38,000 to 189 thousand compared to a year earlier, representing 4.1 percent. Congressman! As regards its comment on the creation of pensioners' cooperatives, as there is a shortage of labour in the labour market in some parts of the country, it is necessary to introduce and operate a new and, where possible, a variety of instruments and a regulatory model to help address employment and social policy challenges. The public pensioner cooperative indirectly contributes to ensuring that the knowledge, professional experience and life experience of persons receiving old-age pensions are not wasted, but are used in some way in the economy and services. It also provides an opportunity for older people to find a new form of self-realization, the exploitation of their knowledge and professional experience, as well as complementing their income as they complete their active careers. With all due respect, I ask you to accept my reply. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[15.20]]
u2017-11-13-74	I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-75	Thank you very much. Of course not, for he did not reply again, as he did not reply the other day. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: Neither! Not last time.]] I didn't know who was going to answer because you didn't answer my very specific questions the other day. What we call an answer is obviously possible to think about. I asked you very specific information about how much NAV, the NAV you control, has opened up in these cases, how much do you think the damage that has been caused by tax evasion, and you said, well, we're doing our job - that was the answer. And if I can answer that, I can answer that, I won't answer that, and you're a drunken, stupid man who doesn't know what he's doing there. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But that's not what I'm saying. 'Cause that would be one answer, but that's not what I'm saying. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, including Dr. Bence Rétvári: Disclaimer immediately! Unacceptable!]] I'd rather list some social cooperatives in the family... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]]
u2017-11-13-76	Congressman, according to the house rules, I am obliged to warn you of this remark and to draw your attention to the seriousness of this. I suggest you apologize to the Secretary of State. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: Now! Ron Werber! Shame!]]
u2017-11-13-77	We have, of course, filed a complaint against the Secretary of State, who is constantly not responding. Of course, I didn't say he was a drunk, stupid man, I said I could have said that... [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic. A statement from the ruling parties: Shame on you! A statement from the opposition: Guard!]]
u2017-11-13-78	Congressman, you did not indicate whether you would accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2017-11-13-79	That's what I said, Mr. President, that I wouldn't accept it.
u2017-11-13-80	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats and try to follow the speeches with a smaller voice. The Member did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I respectfully ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-11-13-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, at the time of the change of government, we unfortunately faced the fact that the pension system was on the verge of collapse. Former governments have put people's pension savings at risk, squandered them, forced payments to private pension funds in foreign hands. As a result, the deficit of the Pension Insurance Fund grew and increased. Between 2002 and 2008, pension adjustments have been made to a smaller extent every year, while in 2007 the real value of pensions has been significantly reduced and in 2009 there has been a strong impairment. Thanks to the above, we inherited a pension system that endangered the payment of both the then and the future pensioners, and the pension lost its value year after year. The socialists left behind an unfair, opaque pension system, which, if we hadn't transformed the pension system, would have collapsed within a short year. Fidesz-KDNP values and respects Hungarian pensioners against previous policy. We are working to ensure that the Hungarian pension system is safe, stable and predictable, and that the value preservation of pensions is ensured. We assure the elderly that this government will do everything in its power to preserve this country for Hungary, as the generations before us have preserved it for us. We do not want the safety of everyday life to cease, we do not want grandchildren to grow up and inherit in a country where security, our values, our culture will become uncertain or disappear. We consider it very important for older people to feel respect and respect in everyday life and live in physical and social security. The basic condition of this is a predictable, secure pension, which does not lose its value. Dear Secretary of State, I'm asking you how we value pensioners. What can pensioners expect this year? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-82	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: I wouldn't be Retvári right now!]]
u2017-11-13-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Hungary, our country, is a multi-generational home, where we believe that it is our duty to ensure the safety of old age, even out of respect for our parents and grandparents. We remember what the socialists did: they took away a month's pension from all elderly people. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Which you have not returned!]] And when they asked their prime minister, Gordon Bajnai, why they had to take a month's pension, he replied that in order not to take two, that was the justification of the Socialist Prime Minister at that time. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] We have undertaken, out of respect for the elderly, to preserve the value of pensions. We managed to keep this commitment, and more, because pensions have increased by 23.1 percent in recent years, if I look at the numerical value of this, which is 9.5 percent in purchasing value. So while the Socialists took a month's pension, Fidesz-KDNP increased the purchasing value of pensions by 9.5 percent. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the MSZP, among other things: 3000 billion were managed to be stolen!]] It is also worth a comparison - Eurostat comparison, coming from Brussels, so even the socialists cannot doubt - how much people's pensions are worth after they retire from work. This is called a substitution rate: what percentage of the pension can replace income, what percentage of the average pension is average income. Well, in the worst of times, during socialist government, it was 52 to 54 percent, today it is nearly 70 percent. So when a person retires, he gets nearly 70 percent of what he received as a salary. This is even higher than the EU average; 57 percent in the EU and 10 percent in us are higher, so retirement in Hungary is less than the average in the EU. We can also remember that only the Fidesz-KDNP supported 40 in Parliament, neither the MSZP, Jobbik, LMP, nor the independents voted for this. 206,000 people took advantage of this opportunity. If it weren't for the Fidesz-KDNP, this 206 thousand people couldn't have lived with 40, and couldn't have helped their child raise children and cousins as grandmothers and grandfathers. It is important for older people to reduce the costs, since besides reducing the VAT on basic foods, this is another expenditure reduction item that can provide the safety of everyday life. The Erzsébet programme has allowed 210,000 people to rest since 2013. This means that out of the money that three French companies took out of the country, 210,000 pensioners were able to be taken away by the government during pre- and post-season or to some sort of medicinal watery place. It is good that 210,000 Hungarian pensioners enjoyed this, not the ownership of three French companies. Retirement cooperatives are also a new opportunity for everyone. The following year, the pension increases by 3 percent. The pension correction will give Hungarian pensioners about HUF 12,000. The pension premium also has a value of 12,000 forints. However, the Hungarian economy is already strong enough to benefit pensioners from this additional performance, not only those whose salary increases by up to 10-12 percent in a year, but also pensioners, and the government has decided to deliver a HUF 10 000 voucher to all pensioners in Hungary. Today we have discussed the job protection action, which will help thousands, tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of pensions before retirement by keeping their jobs, so when they calculate the value of their pensions, they can charge a higher value. But since my dear socialist fellow Members have honored my speech by yelling at me, [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Where is the 14th month? What are you talking about? Sit down.]] Let me read among you the names of those who have taken a monthly pension from all Hungarian pensioners: Gergely Bárándy, László Botka, Sándor Burány, Zoltán Gőgös, Nándor Gúr, István Hiller, Lajos Korózs, Zoltán Lukács, Attila Mesterházy, Gyula Molnár, Tibor Szanyi, László Teleki, József Tóbias, István Tukacs, István Ujhelyi and László Varga. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What about the 3000 billion? Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mrs Mónika Dunai whether she accepts the State Secretary's reply. [[15.30]]
u2017-11-13-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply. Your reply also revealed that when Fidesz-KDNP talks about support for families, it not only talks about support for children, not only about support for parents, but also about support for grandparents, elderly people and pensioners, and it does. I think that the governance of Fidesz and KDNP is a guarantee that pensions really preserve their real value and even increase their economic performance. It is also the government's guarantee of reducing costs, keeping the prices of medicines at a low level, reducing the VAT on foodstuffs and paying the Elisabeth voucher and the pension premium. I accept the answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-86	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congresswoman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Member László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congressman László Cook has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, This system is not working, at least in terms of funding, health care, as we now see every year, at the end of each year and at the end of every budget debate, that you are financing health care with small entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, knowingly underdesigning your budget, and every year it creates a deficit of between HUF 110 and 120 billion in health care, and then at the end of the year, mud wrestling begins between government and healthcare suppliers. It was Minister of State Sombor who first received the task of fighting a deficit of 110 billion forints, a debt of 110 billion forints, 60 billion forints, and then, later, 65 billion forints, and obviously the government tried to abuse its dominant position, and only half of what these institutions actually owed you - because they are underplanning their budgets. It's no different this year. They're talking about 40 billion forints this year. They now hold up to 40 billion forints for entrepreneurs who have financed health care beyond their powers; they have delivered even if you have not allowed these institutions to pay; they have done the job even though they knew that you can expect to get their money sometime in February or March. This is how the debt of the Honvéd Hospital has already been raised by three billion and six other institutions, so this is a systemic problem where you really refer only to the lack of prospects. The financing and budget of hospitals is not well thought out, and the situation is that there is not enough not only medicine, but not only in quantity and quality - there is no hand sanitizer and gloves, they do not have access to this. There's a lot of hospital infections, Mr. Secretary, which, by the way, you're going to treat very dearly; of course, you have to treat it, but how much better it would be if you could prevent it! Every year this series goes through, every year you have hundreds of billions of Hungarian entrepreneurs financed, who you say you are very, very observant of their interests, and then leave them to beg for these money. And I would also like to ask Mr Secretary of State that, if he has said the mandatory past eight years, you should give yourself time to answer the three simple questions I have here. When are you planning to review the healthcare funding system? When will they eliminate the situation that suppliers will not receive their billions for several months? When do hospitals finally deal with a lack of means to kill people? Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-11-13-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-13-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If there is a malfunctioning system in Hungary, it is the Hungarian Socialist Party itself. [[Dr. László Kács: Only we don't cure patients! Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] which has a candidate for Prime Minister who has already failed before the campaign; I think it is a global political record to give up before the starting field. The first thing we hear about you is the infighting and how Ferenc Gyurcsány takes control of this system that doesn't work. [[Attila Mesterházy: Talk about health care! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Was that the question?]] Besides, if it comes to Csaba Czeglédy, you're not willing to clarify your role. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] At the same time, honourable Member, you have had several words of eternal value in your three-minute speech. One is that there are not only hospital infections in Hungary, but even the government spends billions to prevent this. [[Dr. László Kács: No, you didn't hear me right! Nándor Gúr: We shouldn't have talked while we were talking, but we should have watched what the congressman was talking about.]] That's one of them. And the other is that you said that hospitals are in debt, and the government will pay for it at the end of the year. Honourable Congressman, What happened to the missing funding for hospitals when you were in the government? They didn't really follow this system. You didn't pay for it. It was their simple solution. It was a prerequisite that it was not registered, and if it was not registered, it would not be paid. At that time, the municipalities were the hospitals, and they told the municipalities to deal with it as best they could. What did the municipalities do? A bond has been issued, a loan has been borrowed, and it has been replaced [[Nándor Gúr: The Fidesz municipalities!]] I'm sure at the beginning of the year, there was someone who, at the end of the year, was sure to be in the hospital budget for what was missing. You have continued ostrich policy: all maintenance debt has risen to HUF 1200 billion in debt to municipalities [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] This was due to underfunded social, health and education systems, you did not pay for it, the municipalities could not pay for it, so you covered it with bank loans and bonds. That was the ostrich policy you were pursuing. But at some point, it had to be paid, if you didn't pay it at the end of the year, then Fidesz-KDNP had to, and it cost taxpayers 1,200 billion forints to repay these bonds, these loans, which were actually created earlier. In 2016 and earlier years, the government paid for these items, which was HUF 60 billion last year, of which HUF 45 billion could be used for debt settlement and HUF 15 billion for programmes that prevented future debt generation. In 2014 we provided a surplus of HUF 70 billion in hospitals, and in 2015 we will pay HUF 38 billion, and this year we will also pay for the costs of HUF 54.6 billion for all hospitals that they could not pay. This is the difference between Fidesz-KDNP and MSZP, because health spending has decreased, while now, if you look at the budget, you will find more than HUF 181 billion on the health line next year, and more than HUF 220 billion on the health line next year; not a hundred billion cuts in your time, but HUF 181 billion this year and HUF 220 billion next year as a surplus. There are also innovations that try to make hospitals work as predictable as possible. In-patient care, the increase in the new fixed fees applied, the introduction of new fixed fees, the funding of overnight benefits with a TV-free factor of 1.1, the wage increase this year, the inclusion in funding, the public health product tax, the introduction of a chip tax, which fully serves the health wage increase, we spend all our resources on it, and we try to increase it as much as possible, and we have managed to do so. Or in drug financing, in the new structure, patients paid billions less for the same medicines as they did in your day. These were real modifications. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr László Szakács if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2017-11-13-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, If he hadn't talked while I was asking the question, he probably would have heard the question I'm asking; I don't think he would have answered it anyway, because he didn't normally, he showed me the mandatory past eight years, you can see that, and let's face it, he wouldn't even be a political analyst. But that wasn't really the questions, that's all you answered. I didn't say that he spent billions on government prevention. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's what he said.]] That's what I missed, but he wasn't listening, he was talking; he wasn't listening, and then he thought so. At the time, it was the municipalities who, by the way, were responsible, of course, the owner, thinking about his maintenance responsibility, maintained the hospitals and otherwise financed the problems. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Credit.]] Now it's financed by credit, by the same token, and it's financed by bonds. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who?]] the small entrepreneurs you don't pay [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We paid everyone.]] companies that receive their money by more than six months' delay. I don't accept the answer. Thank you.
u2017-11-13-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. [[15.40]] Dear Parliament, Member Sebestyén Vácsó, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, how do you think it could be a worthy celebration of the Day of Social Work? It's an address. Congressman Sebestyén has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, November 12th is Social Work Day. In order for the government to celebrate this day in a dignified manner, it should, in particular, ensure the predictability, sustainability and livelihood of workers in this area. Unfortunately, that cannot be said today. The complex system of substitution means only uncertainty and unpredictability, and it also gives the feeling that it can be taken at any time, and does not even increase much in the category of payments below the bottom of the frog. The increased guaranteed minimum wage can only cause you to work on the track in a very high category or many years to meet the rating and this amount. This is also a source of additional wage tensions. It is no wonder that many people are using the sector as a stepping stone or fleeing abroad, where they can earn ten times their wages here, with much less work, much less supplies in many cases. It is understandable that no one undertakes that 40-45 years of work, both physically and psychologically, after a hard time working on the basis of his salary and payments, he has to suffer as a minor pensioner. Certain sectors, such as child welfare services, have been redesigned, and the necessary expansion of tasks is planned. Of course, I am not saying that these are not justified and unreasonable enlargements, for example, it is not the minimum that they wish to make school social work general or to strengthen the child protection warning system, unless we look around at what is going on with child welfare services, what is going on with child welfare services, then in many cases this is in conflict with each other. The majority of employees in the system work with multiple cases as a result of the vacant statuses and can do anything, the managers, the sectoral leaders, are unable to compensate for the labour shortages due to the above-mentioned reasons. Dear Secretary of State, On the basis of the problems described, are they finally willing to introduce the long-promised social career model, or have they finally given up, in order to ensure sustainability, predictability and livelihood? I know, I'm gonna get all the answers I've always had on the payouts, and of course I've been talking about it in interpellation, that's not an explanation. I will get the answers to the various measures you call welfare measures, but they are not enough. Let them finally see that the workers in this sector are struggling, their salary is unfortunately not enough to make a living. There is only one solution: the introduction of a social career model for a decent and normal living. Are you planning on doing this, or are you giving it up for good? I ask that this be introduced as soon as possible to save the workers in the sector and the sector itself. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-13-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-13-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, social workers deserve respect and recognition, not only on the day of social work, but also on every other day. At the same time, you asked how the day of social work could be celebrated in a worthy manner. I drew the voting records, on 13 December 2016, an early afternoon, to see if you might have supported by your vote the day of social work for social workers to be a holiday. And what I see, honourable Member, is that you are talking about celebrating the day of social work, but according to the voting record, you did not support it with your vote. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Interesting. It's interesting how fast his memory was erased, and now he thinks it's important. As far as the number of people working in the social sphere is concerned, honourable Member, you know that you know this number, as it has already been said here today that the number of people working in the social sphere has increased by 8 thousand over the past period, from 85 thousand to 93 thousand, and the number of workers with professional qualifications has increased even more, from 67 thousand to 77 thousand. Obviously, we all want people with care, the elderly, the disabled, the homeless to be able to get through a difficult time in their lives, but regardless of that, I think it's an important achievement that we have to tell you, and it's important to be proud that the number of people working in the sphere has increased, not only their salary has increased, but the number of people working here has also increased. You have repeatedly said and referred to how bad it is to receive a replacement wage and a salary supplement for those who work here, and you have demanded that these benefits be chartered before. It has now come to light that tens of thousands of forints would be worse for those working in the social sphere, that if the government had followed your proposal, because the wage supplement and the wage supplement would always be built on the wage, and in the event that someone has a skilled skill and therefore, to a very large extent, the minimum wage has doubled, therefore, the wages of those who had low incomes are greatly increased. For them, not only will the skilled minimum wage increase, but there will be additional wages on it, but there will be additional wages on it. So if we hadn't done so, but chose the way that the Socialists would have proposed, tens of thousands of forints less per month would be in the pocket of many, many social workers. In recent years, there has been a great increase that we have succeeded in achieving. The wages of the social sphere started from a very deep point of view, we have to acknowledge this: 140 thousand forints, this is a very low level, but today it will be higher by 93 thousand forints - not today, but from 1 January next year - since this year the average wage will be 212 thousand forints, but in 2018 the average wage will be 233 thousand forints, which represents the social sphere, from 140 to 233. I agree with the Member that 233,000 forints should be further increased, but what was the government that was able to increase the income of social workers by 62 percent, by 93 thousand forints on average? To do this, we needed to introduce the sectoral wage supplement in 2014, which was HUF 12 billion for 90,000 for employees, with an average of HUF 8800, and we had to vote for a salary supplement here in Parliament - of course you didn't vote for it - which was higher than the more qualified social workers who had worked there since then, and that's why we could keep them on the field to a greater extent. This increase continued in 2016 and in 2017, this year we provide HUF 9 billion in surplus [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , of which 14,000 will receive a salary increase of HUF 35,000, but there are also people who can get twice that. That's what we've been doing over the years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Sebestyén Vágó if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2017-11-13-97	Of course, I cannot accept your answer. I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that social workers are monitoring your answers, and the most impertinent and impertinent response is to say how much worse they would have been if there had not been a substitute. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Much, tens of thousands!]] Instead, the introduction of a career model and its integration into the lease. That's what they call the most impertinent. The second is that the number of workers in the sector may have increased, but only decreased in proportion as a result of the expansion of tasks. If we compare these two numbers, then somehow you weren't right about that. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Numbers!]] The other part is why you are singing praises about wage increases in the sector here, and yet what I have said many times is that it is only public workers who earn worse in Hungary today than those working in the social sector. And why didn't I vote Social Work Day? Because they have put social workers in an unfair and unfair situation, whereas other public sector workers are at a disadvantage [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] because the day of civil servants has ended with this proposal, and the day of the soldiers has just ended with this proposal. I cannot accept your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-13-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes to 29, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: "How long will workers be allowed to be humiliated? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, A few months ago, it caused a huge outrage among trade unions that the government, by amending the Labour Code, wanted to increase the maximum duration of the working time limit from one year to three years. This proposal, which we call the slave law, was then withdrawn as a result of the protests, but the point has not changed. [[15.50]] The government, serving the needs of automotive multinationals, would have been willing to adopt an inhumane regulation that would have caused people to work as slaves in the factory. The employer would have been free to dispose of their working hours for years, even working them without interruption for one month, without paying overtime. This showed more than anything how transparent and lying the government's multi- and family-friendly propaganda is, and it also revealed that the government puts the interests of multinationals and capital before the interests of the Hungarian people in any case. That's what the code of exploitation, the dismantling of trade union rights, the emptying of the right to strike, the destruction of the system of national reconciliation was all about. Even compliance with the remaining workers' rights on paper is not important. Hundreds of labour inspectors have been released into the wind, the number of inspections has been drastically reduced, labour surveillance has been abolished. The mandatory weekend overtime, the disregard of working hours and rest rules, the continuous robot for several weeks are common. In the field of machinery, which is considered to be an economic driving industry, half of the companies have exceeded 400 overtime by October, while 250 is allowed. Work accidents are increasing among the hard-working workers. In the first half of the year, the number of fatal work accidents increased by 25 percent; 45 people died on the job. Three-quarters of the controlled companies found irregularities in the construction industry almost everywhere. The Secretary of State could say that the majority of work accidents are due to the carelessness of the workers. The lack of labour due to the government's wage and employment policies only exacerbates the situation. Mr. Secretary. I would like to get an answer on how long the government will stand by and watch workers get hurt and how long it will stand against Hungarian workers on the side of the multinationals. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of Jobbik and the independents.]]
u2017-11-13-100	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-13-101	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In April of this year, it was not the government - let us stick to the facts - but the Parliament's Economic Committee, as has been said on several occasions during the debates at that time, approached a labour law regulatory issue from the economic policy side. On the basis of EU examples, it wished to amend the rules on working time so that trade unions and employers together could gain greater room for manoeuvre in the organisation of working time, and it should be stressed that this could certainly have been done on an agreed basis. The April proposal was intended to increase the possibility of long-term working hours, but it did not aim to increase the number of working hours and maintained the legal rule that the employee would be entitled to an extra wage for overwork. As my fellow Members obviously remember, this information was given during the discussions of the spring session, and I must therefore reject the statements made by the Member woman on the basis of obviously deliberate slippage or incomprehension. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Government of Hungary is committed to creating a work-based society. To this end, the Labour Code contains in an appropriate manner the principles of decent work, individual and collective labour law guarantee rules. Significant changes have been made to the organisation of the labour authority in order to improve its operation. As a result of the transformation of the regional government administration, the labour control apparatus is integrated into government offices and from 2017 into district offices in county seats. During the first half of 2010-2017, nearly 150 thousand employers had labour checks, which covered the examination of the employment conditions of some 1.1 million workers. Only in the first half of this year, the employment authority held 10 186 inspections concerning the employment conditions of nearly 46,000 workers. In order to compensate for the decline in the number of employees by more targeted definition of the Control Guidelines, the organisation's effectiveness has been improved by selecting the appropriate control areas, and by extending a new type of measure, the employment potential of OSH representatives in firms is increased. Control bodies shall define as a priority the reduction of undeclared employment and the protection of the interests of workers, which the labour authority shall support, in addition to checks, by means of preventive information. The labour accident rate decreased over a 10-year period compared to the government period before 2010. Although the number of accidents shows a surge in statistics, the latest figures for the first and third quarters of 2017 show that the number of fatal work accidents did not increase compared to the same period last year. Of course, it should be noted that we cannot be satisfied with this, because every life lost is also a great tragedy. But we do a lot to prevent and eliminate dangerous working conditions by means of large-scale measures and controls. Only the number of immediate measures will amount to.10,000 a year. Due to the high risk of accidents, the control of the construction sector will be given priority. This is a priority in the national OSH control directive and in the official control plan, and this year we have also carried out a national target study to increase the safety of the construction industry at work. The large number of workers mentioned in the work accidents referred to by the Member is based on the facts set out in the Labour Accident Protocol - I stress: facts. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Based on the presentation, it is clear that the government's labour market policy [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It serves decent work with a comprehensive, conscious and efficient tool system, and I therefore ask for my answer to be accepted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-13-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck if she will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2017-11-13-103	I don't accept the answer. Mr. Secretary. It must be noted that under your administration, despite what you have listed, the situation has only deteriorated. The number of work accidents is high. Three-quarters of employers do not comply with OSH rules, as you have mentioned, that from January this year, every company over 20 has to choose a OSH agent. And you have to ask yourself what the new labor code has brought: more work, less wages. Decreasing wages, unpaid overtime, longer working hours, unpredictable working hours, loosening the rules on termination, less favourable severance pay and broken trade union rights. Yes, there is a need to develop a new Code of Labour, together with the social partners. We need to abolish the working time frame; tighten weekend work, increase the allowance for it [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Free Sunday...]] limit night work; restore the afternoon shift allowance and tighten up the rules for termination and severance. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Then you didn't vote...]] We need to talk about the drafting of this labour law. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2017-11-13-104	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 28 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Burány, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. 700 billion amok running and breaking the law at Exim Bank? It's an address. Congressman Sándor Burány has the floor, please.
u2017-11-13-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Orbán already admitted last year that the government debt has actually been growing ever since 2010. That's true, in fact. It is clear from official data that after two cycles, debt increased from HUF 19 500 billion to HUF 24 000 billion, but no one knew that this figure could be much higher. Eurostat has now made public that it has put an end to a controversial Hungarian case: Eximbank is a so-called captive financial institution, so it must be classified in public finances. What does all this mean? This means that the state loan of Andy Vajna, István Garancsi, Lőrinc Mészáros and other fidesz oligarchs increases the Hungarian debt. How much it is better not to think about it, but if we can believe Eurostat, this figure is at least 700 billion forints. [[16.00]] Every Hungarian citizen has lent 700 billion to these oligarchs, so the total amount of public debt will be much closer to HUF 25 000 billion. Dear Secretary of State, If this little 700 billion-dollar fiasco wasn't enough, here's another scandal these days, that Eximbank is also doing business with an offshore company in the Seychelles, all of this by categorically prohibited by the Fundamental Law. Secretary of State, it seems that your tolerance is very high, some 700 billion forints, because it is not enough that the recapitalisation of your friends was carried out by the bank under your supervision, but they have neither a problem with that nor that they have broken the Fundamental Law on offshore operations; it is true that, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, offshore operations have been very relaxed in recent times. Dear Secretary of State, So I'm asking you what you think of Eximbank's 700 billion amok run. I'm asking you, how could the bank under your supervision have violated the Fundamental Law? What's the delay in being held accountable? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-11-13-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by State Secretary Levente Magyar. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2017-11-13-107	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Please don't take this as rude, but it should be noted that the confidence with which the Hungarian Socialist Party speaks as a representative of the public finances, the issue of public debt seems quite unfounded, after two important periods of your party and the predecessor of your party have bankrupted Hungary, most recently between 2002 and 2010. I do not know if the Member remembers how much public debt was in 2002 and how much it was in 2010. I would remind you that in 2002 the then Fidesz government dropped the government debt to about 55 percent, which, as a result of your eight-year regency, was well above 80 percent by 2010. I would also like to remind the Member that in 2010, 2009 Hungary's economic and financial collapse, which was the first of all EU Member States, was largely the direct consequence of the disastrous and unprecedented dilettious financial policy that the MSZP did between 2002 and 2010. Honourable Congressman, With this in mind, I respectfully ask that not only you, but also your fellow party members, speak with greater modesty about public finances and public finances. Honourable Congressman, I could also mention here - it may have been unfair to go back in time for so long, but I cannot afford to go along with this aspect - that, before 1989, the party of which you were a member, the party in which you held important positions, defrauded Hungary to such an extent that Hungary, as a result, is still moaning the level of government debt that most countries in the region, even the former Communist countries, could leave far behind, and that was only your eight-year operation between 2002 and 2010. Honourable Congressman, Since 2010, the Hungarian government debt-to-GDP ratio has been declining, and I would like to stress that we have managed to reduce it by nearly 10 percentage points since 2010, reversing the trend and implementing an economic policy turnaround that seemed impossible earlier, which has resulted in Hungary being one of the few EU Member States where this positive trend is taking place today. But if it is not enough, honourable Member, that you are talking, the MSZP is talking about the issue of public finances and public debt, I would also like to point out that there are factual errors in your speech, since Eurostat has not yet taken any formal decision on the classification of Eximbank. So my request is that we not talk about this as a fact until this decision is made with such a sign or sign. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Eximbank is not in a contractual relationship with any offshore company, there is no official legal relationship between Exim and any company registered in Seychelles. Finally, I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that the next time you talk about the loan portfolio of Exim, you should be more informed, because you have mentioned links that do not reflect reality, or that, methodologically speaking, what you have said here in relation to the alleged 700 billion, we do not understand exactly what you mean. Honourable Congressman, I would like to draw your attention, as a last word, to the methodological basis, to the fact that public debt is calculated by Eurostat and by all OECD Member States in proportion to GDP, so to mention absolute values here, especially in the context of the fact that there was hardly any economic growth in Hungary between 2002 and 2010, and this has contributed to those figures coming out during that period, I think it is unfair. Please accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr Sándor Burány if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. That answer cannot be accepted. First of all, it is because the Secretary of State lies quite simply in Parliament. He's lying because there was no financial collapse before 2010, but there was a successful crisis management [[Rushing, murmuring in the ranks of the Fidesz.]] As a result... [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2017-11-13-110	Fellow Members! I'll warn the congressman on time.
u2017-11-13-111	As a result, for example, the forint was stronger in 2010, at the time of the change of government than it is now, because you have constantly weakened it. That's a shame, Mr. Secretary. That's what we should have talked about. The other one. If you don't understand what I'm saying, you should contact any specialist, read literature. Eurostat has clearly stated that Eximbank is part of public finances, all commitments there increase public debt, and consequently it is expected that about 75 percent of GDP will go up instead of falling. You shouldn't be proud of that, you should be ashamed of that, and you should be ashamed of the offshore. Thank you very much, I don't accept the answer.
u2017-11-13-112	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, I'm still asking you to choose your terms another time. [[Sándor Burány: I was on point, Mr President.]] Thank you very much. The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 29 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: what are they doing to ensure that women really get the opportunities and recognition they deserve? It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-113	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, For all of us, it must be a goal for Hungary to provide a predictable and safe future for families and especially for women. According to research, there has been a trend thirty years ago that children's birth and participation in the labour market are a difficult and often exclusion factor, on the contrary: in countries where women's employment is higher, where mothers are given the opportunity to return to the labour market in addition to raising children. One of your measures, however, is the introduction of a nursery care fee, i.e. paying for day care services, is a completely different direction, even if positive steps have been taken. It is also clear today that women in the education system perform better than men, and many international and domestic measurements support this, while higher salaries and leading positions are still more likely for men. In the latest OECD survey, taking into account current trends, it predicted the disappearance of unfair wage differences in Hungary to 2102, which can obviously be a bad joke and makes it absolutely clear that processes need to be accelerated. The situation is even worse with regard to leading positions, they managed to bring Hungary back to the last place in the EU, the biggest difference between the salaries of men and women working in senior positions is based on Eurostat statistics this year: a senior man earns 34 percent more on average, so we can also say that a woman works for free in one third of the year. Orbán has recently said cynically that he does not deal with women, and many other pro-government politicians have also made offensive statements about women. With this attitude, nothing will change, and it may not be a hundred years long enough to notice that women should be helped by the state to play a role in the family and to move forward in the workplace, not as an obstacle to one another, but as a helper, or as a person who wants to choose a full-time parenthood, to do so safely. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State what they are doing to really give women the opportunities and recognition they deserve. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[16.10]]
u2017-11-13-114	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2017-11-13-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Cynically, I could say that you know exactly the answer to your question, because I understand that you also gave birth to your three children in this cycle, and you have experienced how much support is given to those who have given birth. In fact, if you had undertaken these children before 2010, for example, you would not have been entitled to the family allowances that now fit, for example, if you had taken up a child within three years. I had all three children in this cycle between 2002-2010, so believe me, I know what I'm talking about. Our starting point is that women should be given priority support, and women should not be given priority support because they would be dumber than men, or less capable of anything than men, or because they would be less diligent than men, but because they also have tasks that men do not face. We women have the right to have children; we women have the right to give birth to a child; we women have the right to breast-feed the child, to have responsibilities in the family that we have to perform. And these are very nice tasks, but that is why we need extra support for us women, and that is why we have decided not to put women in a position of choice, we do not want children to be an obstacle to working, nor do we want them to be an obstacle to having children. We have taken measures, steps in recent years, in the last seven years, that support women's ability to take jobs and raise children, to care for their families and not only for their children, but also, where appropriate, for their elderly sick parents or relatives. I'm just gonna give you a few examples, but like I said, I think you know these things. What was it before 2010? They took away his third year. We've restored it, and now you can stay home with the child for three years. The system punished a brother in three years' time with his other child. We have also eliminated this thanks to the ged extra: every child is entitled to the support of the family. The system punished employment if a young mother did so in addition to having children. You can do this now, because thanks to the extra we gave 70,000 mothers the opportunity to work with their little children. Forty thousand mothers benefited from the job protection action, which also supports their ability to fit back into the labour market. Nursery constructions, nursery development, the wage increase of daycare workers, all of which serve to help those mothers, families where both parents work or the mother works and cannot look after her under three-year-old children, families are also helped if they cannot solve this in the family. I can also mention 40, with which we were able to return more than 200,000 grandmothers to the families, supporting a stronger relationship between grandmothers, grandparents and grandchildren. But I could say the family tax reduction, I could say the home-building program. Only with the home creation program, we helped over 60,000 families. They all extend the scope that enables a woman to cope not only in the labour market but also in her family. As a result, female employment has now increased by 22 percent from 2010. And if I could draw your attention to some of the other things you mentioned, they were misleading about the data you mentioned, and I would also stress that it is the decision of the municipality, and in most of the nursery schools there is no need to pay a nursery fee, so please check this data calmly, that is factually true. Just as it is true that a person who is socially disadvantaged lives in a large family, raises a persistently ill child, he does not have to pay a daycare allowance at all. He referred to international data. According to Eurostat, the gender pay gap in Hungary decreased by 20.45 per cent between 2010 and 15 and the data you mentioned from Eurostat have not been found anywhere, so I do not know what the source is. So please refer to credible data, be more informed, and support us in our actions to support families. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-116	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I will ask Mrs Dóra Dúró if she will accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-11-13-117	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, from Eurostat statistics released this year on Women's Day, I have gathered the data from it, so I would ask you to be more informed. I didn't make up this data. The OECD survey shows that the unfair wage gap will also disappear in Hungary in about a hundred years. In a hundred years, Madam Secretary. For example, you have done nothing to reduce the burden of single - parent families. Last week there was a five-party discussion on this, and the representative of Fidesz did not appear at this meeting, even though there were substantive, professional points. It would help both the demographic situation and the labour market progress of women if measures were taken to encourage fathers to engage in child rearing. That's what one of the senior advisors at the KSH said. No measures have been taken in this regard either. So, yes, there is progress in family policy, and a future government must keep them, but further measures are needed to change the demographic situation and to provide women with real opportunities. I don't accept the answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-13-118	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, It's 16 hours and 16 minutes, we're at the end of the interpellations. I will wait for my fellow Members, who are leaving the Chamber now because of their urgent duties, to do so so that we can then begin the hour of immediate questioning. [[It's a short break. Some of the congressmen are leaving the meeting room.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. As I was saying, it's time for immediate questioning. Congressman László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding person or waits for the Prime Minister to be present. [[For signal:]] Congressman indicates that he accepts Minister as a responder. Congressman László Cook has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I would like to ask you about public procurement, but first let us take a little look at how this has happened in the past. This is about health care and its organisation. You nationalised health care, nationalised the institutions, and nationalised procurement. They have created a huge monstre institution, the Ministry of Man, and within it they have created institutions that have been falling apart since then, especially in the mazes of public procurement. This is also true when it comes to obtaining medical aids, but also when it comes to obtaining instruments. You are very proud of how this centralisation has managed to make the procurement of assets more rational, cheaper and better, and especially the functioning of health care. It is basically that nothing else can be read, whether in the Public Procurement Notifications or in the newspapers, that - I do not say so, it is the Public Procurement Arbitration Committee that claims - the State Health Supply Center was fined 50 million forints in the summer, and now it has been fined 30 million forints. [[16.20]] Previously it was said that another acquisition was fined for HUF 3 million and that the public procurement was not successfully carried out. It is not only because of the penalties that these instruments will, of course, be more expensive, because you will pay for it from this budget, but it is also about the fact that there is so much slipping of breathing equipment, the purchase of monitoring monitors, the execution of contracts for medicines and cancer medicines, so that you can continue the therapies that have begun. Why can't we do this legally, Minister? That's my question.
u2017-11-13-120	I give the floor to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, Mr János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-11-13-121	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, If I can't answer precisely, I would like to apologize to Congressman, given that he didn't succeed legally. The title in my practice offers a wide range of opportunities. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Happens all the time! Defiance from the Jobbik benches. Dr. László Kács: That's true! Noise. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] So with regard to my ministry, I apologize, Mr. President. I am receiving a number of such questions regarding the Ministry, so I did not know which question my fellow Member would like to ask, nor did he address it to me originally, but to the Prime Minister. But thank you very much for asking. The conclusions of a very important sectoral structural reform will have to be withdrawn by the next parliament, when it is important to assess whether the merger of previously fragmented maintenance structures in health care or education, from a number of hospitals, perhaps seventy or a few local government-owned hospitals, to hand over the Hungarian health care institution system, or to give Hungarian public education to state reservations from a municipal reserve, was a correct or incorrect step, or what results and disadvantages it has brought. To talk about this, I think it is not a problem at all, it is not a shame, because the results of this must be evaluated. I believe, also as a former mayor, that the fragmented structure that previously characterised health care did not allow all Hungarian citizens who were sick to be treated equally and equally. The richer local government was able to develop its hospital, where voters were more fortunate, where there was no source for development, and there they could not heal in time and with sufficient efficiency. So, in itself, Mr President, what is a very important debate about whether it was right to give hospitals into the hands of a maintenance worker is a very important issue, and it is suitable for debate, but I myself am one of those who believe that this is one of the solutions to improving the health situation in Hungary. I'll also answer your specific question in the next minute. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-13-122	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman László Szakács.
u2017-11-13-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Appreciate it. The Public Procurement Finals Committee evaluated it only three times this summer and three times the largest Ministry of the Hungarian State was punished for millions of forints and ten million forints because it was in the interest of one of the suppliers that they modified the application during the tender. That's already been appreciated by the profession. They curse this kind of centralization pretty much all the way around the business. In fact, it's about the previous one - what did he say? - you've been able to build a fragmented maintenance structure over the past few years. The only thing you've made general is inequality. It doesn't matter where someone in Hungary gets sick, where they get sick, where they get hurt, in Eastern Hungary, in South Transdanubia or in one of the districts of Budapest, or in Pest county. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Close the Buda Children's Hospital?]] Because it's not gonna heal with the same odds. But I think that laws must be followed, that a good structure must be built. Thank you.
u2017-11-13-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. One-minute rejoinder, Minister John Lázár.
u2017-11-13-125	Your Honour, my fellow Member. Sometimes I punish myself by reading the Socialist Party's previous election programs and election promises and government programs [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Make it real, John! Don't read it.]] Which is a historical memory, since there is not much left of the Socialist Party. So we can read it as a historical document. On a regular basis, Mr President, the biggest mistake of Hungarian health care and Hungarian education is that it is not in a single maintenance structure. So you should also read your own political programmes, as regards a unified reservation. [[Dr. László Kács: Yours is shorter!]] As far as purchasing is concerned, I am sorry that Congressman does not shine a light on the good side of the medal, that is. I'm sure there are purchases. At last, after many years, many, many ten billion-dollar developments in Hungarian health care have been launched to acquire various assets. I think that's very good news. But you know perfectly well that if you deal with the question that suppliers in this market world are constantly competing, attacking each other, and technological progress is enormous. This will be a very big funding challenge for Hungarian health. So what are we interested in? To make it as competitive as possible, because it will be good for social security where people pay their contributions. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-13-126	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Vona, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Lameness or integrity? It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the Prime Minister for his answer in person.
u2017-11-13-127	Mr President, I'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-13-128	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister, honourable Parliament and honourable Member, must respond at the hour of the third immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Prime Minister, Fidesz Zrt. As CEO, how much money do you have? It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you, Congressman, whether you will accept the person who is responding, or whether you will personally ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
u2017-11-13-129	Mr President, I do not want to schedule your time to attend meetings, so I would like to wait for the CEO, Mr Orbán, to answer the question. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-13-130	Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question: 'Is it really private?' It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-131	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Recently, a number of cases have come to light that have shown that sexual harassment and abuse are quite common in the art world, but last week, politics has also become the subject of these cases. As a representative of the government, you spoke last week about the fact that this is private and that, in private terms, the government has no responsibility or responsibility. However, I would now like to convince you that you are wrong in this regard. These are social phenomena, where the government and all public actors have very important responsibilities and tasks. If we only think about the work of law enforcement authorities, we can read in one of the reports of the High Prosecutor's Office that individual and social reactions have a decisive impact on the initiation and conduct of criminal proceedings. So, Minister, what statements you make, for example, on behalf of the government, on these matters, are extremely important, even for the work of law enforcement authorities. But there are also two other aspects that I would like to draw your attention to. One is the help of victims, since, after such unfortunate events, this has different psychological, physical, and otherwise social effects. As far as I know, there has been no survey of the social impact of these cases in Hungary. This should, for example, be one of the government's tasks in these cases. In fact, there is much greater visibility in these cases than in other crimes, which should also be prevented and suppressed by the government, as only a fraction of such cases will reach the time of prosecution compared to other crimes. I therefore ask Minister whether he still believes that the government has nothing to do or is responsible in this area. I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-13-132	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go. [[16.30]]
u2017-11-13-133	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I have found that, as Chairman of the Commission, he always correctly quotes various government statements or statements. I would like to appeal to this feature now, when I ask you to quote correctly what I have said, because at the first point, I have drawn attention to the fact that we are on the side of the victims in Fidesz and KDNP, we do not accept any violence, any abuse of power, we cannot tolerate it, and we believe that it is persecuted and punishable. We consider it very important that human dignity never, under any circumstances, be harmed. I think that this is important not only for us, but for all the parties in Parliament. I also said at the press conference that if the laws adopted by Parliament are not strict enough, we must discuss them in the context of a parliamentary debate or in the context of a social debate. But here there are two sides to the coin, because many, if I understand it correctly, in the vast majority of the cases, they did not want it for years, they did not dare, they could not report it or report it. However, when an announcement was made at ELTE, using the laws in force, the Ethical Committee of ELTE relieved the dean of one of the faculty. So the laws there were capable of imposing sanctions. That's why I can't decide alone, as a legislator without you, whether these laws are good or bad. I absolutely accept your criticism of the executive authority, because indeed, if such a complaint is received, such announcement is received, such phenomena are experienced by the victims, by the actors of the state on the side of the victims, then they must act in the strongest, without compromise. My comment was that, in general, I think that the state should only intervene in the private affairs of people in the necessary and minimal way and should refrain from affecting people's private relations in any form. But that doesn't mean that if a person is raped in a family or under any other circumstances, such as this case, the state should remain neutral. But it also requires that the victim be protected in order to be able to act. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-134	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-135	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I didn't want to be malicious when I actually quoted only part of what he said, but this part was what I opposed, so I put more emphasis on it. At the same time, in the context and in the political situation in which you made this statement - and here I would like to refer to the remarks made by either the Prime Minister or other Fidesz politicians about women earlier - believe me that the statement you made last week gave cause for uncertainty. However, in addition to legislation, there can be a great deal of work to be done either by the government as an initiative or by legislators that can help law enforcement authorities to resolve these cases more effectively. That is why Jobbik has also initiated a five-party consultation on this issue; I hope that we will also see the representatives of Fidesz in these discussions. I would also like the awareness of decision-makers to be improved in this regard. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-13-136	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder, Minister. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to say that the Ministry of Justice, on behalf of the Government, is obviously prepared to support such a five-party consultation and take initiatives professionally and to assist them in the work of government and legislation, and on the other hand, we are open to any such initiative or comment. I agree with the remarks made by the Member, which warn us that in executive power and in legislative power, practitioners must also obviously lead by example, which means protecting victims and ensuring that there is a chance of protection. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-138	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, Congresswoman Márta Demeter and Members of Mr Ákos Hadházy, representatives of the LMP, wish to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Why is the government not disturbed by reality? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the Prime Minister for his answer in person.
u2017-11-13-139	We'll wait.
u2017-11-13-140	Thank you very much. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Member Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is the explanation? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask whether you accept the person of the responding person or ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2017-11-13-141	I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2017-11-13-142	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Why doesn't the government act against offshore tax evasion?" It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2017-11-13-143	Yes, I accept, thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-13-144	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-11-13-145	Dear Minister, Over the past week, tens of thousands of documents - called Paradise Papers - have been revealed about how their wealth and income are hidden by the richest people and companies in the world. They are very good at this and thus deprive countries of a significant share of tax revenues. According to some calculations, two and a half times the government debt has been removed from Hungary in the last thirty years. In the current scandal, Hungarian actors such as István Nagy, the Swiss ambassador of our country also appear. While the net value of the minimum wage in Hungary still does not reach the minimum wage, some of the taxable profits disappear in offshore accounts, and the government does nothing about it and actively supports it beyond inaction. It does not exclude offshore companies from public procurement, from public funds, or even involve them in the settlement bond business, nor take action against them in the economy. It supports the process called tax optimisation by reducing the tax on profits, trying to win the downward tax competition, even though that competing country cannot have winners, only the multinationals. The government supports offshore operations from time to time, as we have seen, with tax amnesty, and does not participate in international cooperation, or only alibis. The LMP is determined to sweep offshore operations away from public funds and take action against it in the economy, so we recommended that all offshore accounts be transferred to at least 9% of the tax equivalent to the profit tax. I'm asking you if the government is finally willing to do something about pumping out the billions of dollars, and you're going to use the amount you've won to raise your wages. Thank you.
u2017-11-13-146	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-147	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, With regard to your question, I would like to begin by saying that after 2010, the Hungarian Parliament adopted a Fundamental Law, and we adopted related economic rules and stability laws that pushed companies with offshore backgrounds away from public funds, such as public procurement. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that between 2002 and 2010 Hungarian public funds essentially fed offshore networks. Between 2002 and 2010 there was a time when the money you are earning left the country, with the help of a political course that deliberately built the country's financial system to move the economic assets produced in Hungary abroad to the offshore. We broke up with this when we made the requirement of transparency a constitutional principle in the Fundamental Law, for example, 44,000 companies had to accept that they had no offshore background. These are the companies that have received any support from EU funds. There has also been a huge debate in this Parliament about whether this strengthens economic competitiveness or reduces it. On the other hand, we have taken a number of measures that have strengthened transparency. With a calm conscience, I can tell you that we have done the most in Central Europe in order to keep offshore companies away from public money. On the other hand, I would also like to say to you that there is a contradiction in what it raises, because there is international practice, and international cooperation - in which we are involved in contrast to your claim - shows that not only the persecution of these funds, the displacement of the offshore network, but also the creation of favourable tax conditions so that an entrepreneur does not have to take his money from the country. This is why it is very important to reduce corporate tax and all tax reductions that are beneficial to entrepreneurs, and that is why I also consider it important that the offshores who returned home with tax amnesty were then able to channel them into the tax base in Hungary with a tax commitment. So we've also taken steps to get the money back, not just ban the offshore. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-148	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. [[16.40]]
u2017-11-13-149	Mr. Secretary. I thought you'd refer to the Fundamental Law, but I'd like to quote that the Fundamental Law only excludes companies with unclear backgrounds, not companies with known owners but tax frauds and shortening the state register. So there's still something to be done here. But there's another part of my question. We usually get the answer that there can be no general wage increase in Hungary, only at the minimum wage or in some places, because there is no funds for it, because the economy is not doing so much. However, we see that they are taking very serious money out of Hungary, and they are referring to offshore companies. That is why we have proposed that all the invoices that are being allocated to offshore companies should be subject to the same 9% tax on profits as the others in general. This could certainly provide a significant source for raising wages better in Hungary.
u2017-11-13-150	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-151	Thank you very much. I would just like to point out that according to the current rules, the Hungarian State can only conclude any contract with transparent undertakings when carrying out its work. We cannot conclude contracts with a company whose background is not transparent. When a mistake is made that cannot be ruled out in the operation of a state apparatus or a state, it is you who regularly discuss it in one case or another. However, they are incomparably small or barely occurring, contrary to what took place in the country between 2002 and 2010. We talked about this a lot back in the day. I would also like to note that achieving the return of money is possible under favourable tax conditions. International cooperation is needed, but not bilaterally between Hungary and other countries, but in all the Member States of the European Union. Tax conditions must be established in Europe so that such solutions are not necessary. That is why we need to keep reducing taxes, which is why we are the government of tax reductions, so that a company does not have to take money from Hungary. Rather, they should bring money here in order to meet the social policy goals. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-13-152	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gyula Budai, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: the relationship between the Gyurcsány family and the Czeglédy case, or who financed Csaba Czeglédy's transactions? It's an address. Minister Pál Völner has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you if you'll accept the person you're responding to. [[For signal:]] Congressman indicates that he accepts Mr Pál Völner as a replyer. Congressman Gyula Budai has the floor.
u2017-11-13-153	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, As we know, the criminal organization operated by Csaba Czeglédy has damaged the state register by billions of forints, cheating hundreds of people who have not yet received their wages. As a result of last year's amendment of the law, both adult labour agencies and school associations have been included in the reverse VAT, making it increasingly difficult for criminal organizations operated by Czeglédy to carry out their activities. That is why the fallen Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány and his wife Klára Dobrev were needed to help. As is known, Altus Portfolio Ltd. on several occasions he lent hundreds of millions of HUF to Human Operator Zrt., so through Gyurcsány's company he not only provided friendly loans to Human Operator Zrt. controlled by Czeglédy, but also participated in the operation and financing of the criminal organization through the money. And the reason is very simple, Mr Secretary of State: in this case, too, the left-wing politicians followed a well-established method for the 4th metro project. So the corruption money served party financing here as well. The threads of the case are increasingly leading to the MSZP and DK, and it is well assumed that a significant part of the missing money has fallen into the cash register of these two parties. I ask Mr Secretary of State whether the investigating authority is investigating where the billions have gone or have disappeared and whether they are examining the issue of illicit party financing. Thank you for your reply.
u2017-11-13-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-13-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Csaba Czeglédy and his associates are currently being prosecuted for the crime of fiscal fraud, which is a particularly high financial disadvantage, and for other crimes. According to the suspicion, the criminal association under the direction of DK and MSZP's domestic lawyer established a network between 2011 and 2016 that also dealt with student placements. According to suspicion, the criminal organization linked to Csaba Czeglédy caused a financial disadvantage of approximately HUF 3 billion to the state budget. It is suspected that Ferenc Gyurcsány's family business Altus, also funded by the European Commission, helped the socialists out of this organization, Csaba Czeglédy, with HUF 80 million. Tamás Deutsch, MEP, turned to OLAF, the European Union Anti-Fraud Office. Hopefully, in order to clarify the matter, the European Union Anti-Fraud Office will order an immediate investigation, in view of the transaction that raises the suspicion of serious fraud committed by EU funds. The Altus Portfolio, belonging to Ferenc Gyurcsány's interest, has on several occasions provided Csaba with a larger amount of friendly loans, but the loan contracts also include elements that call into question the nature of the friendly loan, personal guarantees, immediate incassor and other elements. These do not support the fact that this is true, and this implies commercial lending. The question arises whether Ferenc Gyurcsány's company has the right permission to lend a financial loan. The National Bank is entitled to examine this and we hope that it will initiate the necessary market surveillance procedure and investigation. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-13-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder comes from Congressman Gyula Budai. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-157	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Ferenc Gyurcsány lied twice between Altus and Human Operator Zrt. About your relationship. He lied when he said that the company once lent money to Csaba Czeglédy and lied when he said that Csaba Czeglédy's company didn't repay the loan. Ferenc Gyurcsány's company has lent hundreds of millions of forints on several occasions, and one of these loans is Human Operator Zrt. He paid back the loan to Ferenc Gyurcsány's company with interest. According to press information on this issue, soon the D.A. will hear from Dobrev Klára. The witness, on the other hand, has an obligation to tell the truth, so Ferenc Gyurcsány's lies are about to end. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-13-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-13-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to address one more important issue on this matter. The government and Fidesz consider it the most important thing in this case, of course the prosecution must find out the responsibility to compensate the victims of the case. In view of the vulnerable situation of the injured, a parliamentary resolution proposal was submitted today, in which a fair settlement of claims may be paid by the Hungarian government. With the adoption of the resolution proposal, Parliament may open the way for the fastest possible settlement of damages for victims. However, this settlement of claims should not result in the payment of compensation being exempted from the damage suffered by the injured party. If it turns out that the background funding of MSZP and DK was supported by Csaba Czeglédy's criminal organisation, the amount paid for the settlement of claims should be deducted from the State support of the parties concerned. Overall, it can be said that the entire Hungarian left has a serious ethical and political responsibility in this case, and it is therefore justified to examine whether there has been a disguised party funding. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-13-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary a question: with millions of fixers a month, today a man is easily joking? It's an address. Mr President, I mean, the President of the National Bank has appointed Mr Nagy, Vice-President, to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-11-13-161	I accept, thank you very much.
u2017-11-13-162	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor.
u2017-11-13-163	On 18 October 2017, we were able to hear the report of the Hungarian National Bank for the year 2016. You know, that was the report that György Matolcsy ran away from and left us Vice President Martin the Great as a pledge. Thus, the opposition questions had to be answered by Martin the Great. It must have been unpleasant, and I'm sure as you're confused, you answered such knife-opening sentences that everyone can read back from the record. That he knows that there are low-wage and high-wage professions in the labour market and that there are regional differences. But you don't understand what this has to do with central bank wages. [[16.50]] Central bank wages have to do with commercial bank wages. If the professionals aren't paid, the central bank staff will leave. The banks hunt down the central banks and take them away from us because the banks find the right professional. They also have a staff shortage, I mean, the National Bank, and they promise to pay. In order for the central bank to function in an appropriate professional capacity, it does require high wages and trade wages. Mr Vice President said that he was from a poor family, and that he needed not only high wages, the salary of 9 million, but that when he made HUF 2.7 million a month, he needed the VIP loan, the interest-free loan from which he could continue to buy. I do have one question - I come from a simple family of three children - that if I went down to Paks, as you would go down to Szolnok, and he would say that he couldn't put me aside for 2.7 million, and that's why he had to rule me in the central bank, which is why you have everything that a normal person doesn't have, I think people would open their pockets. Mr. Vice President, if you don't mind, they're not that far away from reality at the National Bank, they're not that far away from the countryside, they're not that far away from the people. Because if there's a shortage of staff at the central bank, think about it, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, what about simple doctors and nurses? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That's where the wages should be raised, not with you. I'm waiting for your answer that you didn't break away from reality.
u2017-11-13-164	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Vice-President Martin the Great.
u2017-11-13-165	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Members, I didn't break away from reality. What I said last time, I maintain it now; in fact, this is how this profession works, the central bank, the banking labour market. If you don't agree with that, then I have to say you're the one who's separated from reality. Look who these central banks, these economists are competing with. They're not competing with doctors, they're not competing with nurses, they're competing with teachers, they're being seduced by banks, they're not being seduced by hospitals, they're being seduced by banks that promise to beat salaries. Not to mention international organisations, say, a European Central Bank, an IMF, what kind of salaries they give to smart people who don't leave this country, but rather work in the central bank, yes, for a salary higher than the national economy average, but comparable to the banking system for the same salary. In the central bank, payments are in competition with the banking system, and the banking system is paid either at the middle or at the top or at the bottom. This has been the case in the past, and I think it will be the case in the future. I like working with smart colleagues, even with country colleagues, and they are often much more ambitious than the metropolitans, they come up [[Rumble in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]] To Budapest and, yes, to prove that they can compete [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: How dare you say such a thing? Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And that profession has to be paid. So I will continue to maintain this position. I think that the person who can deliver such results is the one who brings forward the Hungarian central bank. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Do you think that every sector is stupid but you?]] Once again, it's been the same for the last ten years. [[Noise. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Stop it, millions of people are offended by this comment! Get him out of here. Intercoms from Jobbik: You can't fool around! Dr. István Apáti: Come pick apples for the countryside!]] I think it is so in all countries, and it will continue to be so in the future. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-13-166	Thank you very much. Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély [[Dr. István Apáti: Come pick apples for the countryside! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Healthcare workers are also needed, as well as those working in education!]] Congresswoman [[Noise.]] I apologize, Congresswoman. Don't make me warn you. [[Noise. Ildikó Borbély: Can I be fooled?]] Congresswoman, I'm warning you. [[István Szávay: Is it stupid? Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: The MSZP can be stupid, of course! Dr. Bence Rétvári: They could be in the MSZP, of course!]] Mr. Note, your job is to oversee the legal order of this House, not to yell at us in any form. [[Constant noise and interruptions from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2017-11-13-167	You know, Mr. Vice President, I'm now, unfortunately, certain that you've been cut off from reality. We need good professionals and smart people in health care and education, and that's where we should pay! You're a public servant. It would be your job to pay these people as much as possible. Your job would be to have a country here, to live in a country where you serve a service. He wouldn't be walking on a rug of 280,000 forints, he wouldn't build tunnels that didn't have to meet reality, so he wouldn't have to meet the people of Buda, he wouldn't have to pay a scholarship to the National Bank himself, he would just and only care about making the country better and better for the people with foreign currency. I simply can't believe what you're saying: you've made a fool of the rural population and every professional who doesn't earn as much as you do. You who make a living with our money! It's outrageous!
u2017-11-13-168	Thank you very much. One-minute rejoinder [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I think you should sit down! It's better for everyone.]] It's up to Vice President Martin the Great.
u2017-11-13-169	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, I refuse to prosecute. I didn't fool the countrymen. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Yes!]] I even lifted it up and said that there are a lot of talented gentlemen and ladies waiting to work at the central bank. But the role you're playing is to say that the central bank has to care that doctors or health professionals or educators have a higher salary. [[Anita Beringes: You guys worked it out for the FX guys, didn't you?]] The tasks of the central bank are laid down in law. These, please, are achieving price stability [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] achieving financial stability and supporting government economic policy. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to ask you where you are in it - we do not employ doctors and educators, their salaries in Parliament [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: You should hold back a little bit!]] And you, the government, can handle it. Don't play a role in this. I'm sorry. [[Noise. Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are a true gentleman!]] Thank you. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]]
u2017-11-13-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, [[Noise.]] Dear Parliament, Let us allow Congressman György Szilágyi to present his immediate question. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: How can you say that?]] Congresswoman! [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: How can you behave like this?]] [[Noise.]] Dear Parliament, Let us allow Congressman György Szilágyi to present his immediate question. (Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: How can you say that? ? ) Congresswoman! (Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: How can you behave like this? ) Congresswoman (Noise) Congresswoman, should I just say, how does Congresswoman behave? Well, I'm sorry. Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question with the help of the Minister's Minister for Simple Entrepreneurship. It's an address. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-171	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. There are a lot of successful entrepreneurs in the country. Why does Tiborcz refer István to Parliament? Is it because he's related to Viktor Orbán? 'You asked me,' said you, outraged at my question last week, Minister. You, Minister, have answered this question yourself, since you met István Tiborcz within 24 hours of the immediate question. If I had asked Minister about another contractor, would he still meet with this man the next day and consult with him? No, you have only consulted István Tiborcz, the son-in-law of Viktor Orbán. Let us not forget one important thing: you are one of the most important ministerial positions of Hungary, one of the most important members of the government of Viktor Orbán is the Prime Minister, who is probably quite busy, and to raise the stakes, many of your parties see you as a beautiful successor to Viktor Orbán. That's why he went and met István Tiborcz right away. Minister, if you were upset about what was being done to family members, you would have been outraged when Fidesz and Fidelitas, for example, harassed Lorán Hegedűs' 78-year-old mother, who is not a public figure, indeed. He could have been outraged even when the Habony Media staff together with Fides harassed Gábor Vona's wife and son. They are not public figures, unlike István Tiborcz. But why was this meeting so important? In all likelihood, because it is one, the son-in-law of Viktor Orbán, two, you played a major role in facilitating the richness of István Tiborcz, since as mayor of Hódmezővásárhely you concluded the first contract with the company that subsequently won HUF 11 616 million in various public procurement procedures, so there is no claim that you did not win public procurement. They did win public procurement. It still seems very much, Minister, that Viktor Orbán is using it to make his own family rich. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Your position as Prime Minister. Is that all right with you? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-13-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-11-13-173	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member György Szilágyi chose a clever way to try to push me around. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] partly because of [[Complaining from Jobbik's ranks: Praise back and forth!]] partly because he asked me so many questions at once that it's hard for me to answer, and because he made comments that we don't know where it leads. Now, on the specific issue, Mr President, perhaps we should start with the most interesting part of the matter, and this is the chapter on relatives, relatives of politicians in politics. Perhaps you know, Congressman, that my political opponents did not shy away from conducting a public opinion poll in Hódmezővásárhely, the Media, by the way, directed the polls on a large sample of whether I was beating my wife. So I've been through it on my own. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] What that means. That's what you're laughing at. I'm sorry you're laughing at that, by the way. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: We didn't laugh at that, we laughed at another.]] Members, I am sorry that you are laughing at this. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's not what we were laughing about.]] It's a thing that's happened. It's a done thing, which, by the way, you had to apologize publicly to the media polling company itself. Their greatest loss of prestige, I think, during their careers, is polling. So I suffered and experienced the fact that when family members, personal affairs, family relations are involved in politics. I am one of those who will insist to the end that family members, the work, lives, personal affairs of family members, have nothing to do with what is happening in political life. [[17.00]] I know there will be an election campaign, but I am asking you to leave Viktor Orbán's family, children, relatives of children alone. because they have nothing to do with what Viktor Orbán represents in politics, what policy he represents, what he shows, what his government program is, or what kind of government performance he has placed on the table. Let's talk about performance. Let us talk about what we have done for this country or what we have missed, that debate makes sense. Political parties who don't stand a chance of winning are used to being personal. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-174	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2017-11-13-175	Minister, I agree with you, and then you tell this to Fidelitas, please, who is constantly harassing these family members, so that we don't deal with family members who are not public figures. But from then on, if anyone in their family has a character like István Tiborcz in the family of Viktor Orbán, who, I repeat, has won 11 616 million forints, or 11 and a half billion forints of public procurement, he has received public money because he is Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, then there is no way to ignore it. Minister, you know perfectly well that this man was able to produce HUF 8.4 million in 2009 with his companies. Then, as you came to government, it was 686 in 2010, then almost 3 billion in 2011, and in 2012 it reached 3 billion. This total is 6446 billion, and only after that came the Canaan, from 2013, when 11 616 billion He won because he is Viktor Orbán's son-in-law. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-13-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Minister.
u2017-11-13-177	The excitement messed up the numbers, but what you're trying to say, I understand, Congressman. Let me also answer your question as to why I said that in this Parliament - if you follow Parliament's meetings as a participant or read back from the minutes - it is not customary for any Hungarian entrepreneur to be called here, because it cannot defend itself or answer questions. [[Noise, public announcements from Jobbik's ranks, including: No! Don't say it.]] There are hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs in this country. My fellow Members, you are free to look at the minutes of the past decades, and in this House entrepreneurs are not used by name, because entrepreneurs are all important if they are not the most important players in the Hungarian society. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: especially Tiborcz and Mészáros.]] Because they can take care of themselves and others. Allow me also to make a comment, Congressman, that this group of companies - I will be happy to demonstrate this at Hódmezővásárhely anytime, I think, in the campaign, Mr. Congressman will appear in Hódmezővásárhely, and I will be happy to see you for coffee - I will always prove to Mr. Congressman that this group has offered the best public lighting project in Hungary. Cost fell by 60 percent, and the lighting increased by a hundred percent. [[György Szilágyi: He is in a monopoly position.]] That's why it was a good project. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] No matter who's married or who's married. That's why they won everywhere. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-178	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Mátyás Firtl, representative of KDNP, would you like to ask the Minister of Defence an immediate question, "A step forward in the matter of defence?" It's an address. Minister Tamás Vargha has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. [[For signal:]] Congressman indicates that he accepts the Secretary of State as a responder. Congressman Mátyás Firtl has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-179	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We are pleased to hear that another capability development project has recently been announced at the Hungarian Defence Office. This time, a large-scale development of more than HUF 2.2 billion was carried out in an EU project to provide more effective disaster-related activities and tasks. The performance of disaster management tasks is an extremely important public security task, and as such it belongs primarily to the Ministry of the Interior, but it is also well known that the Hungarian Defence Office is involved in natural and other disaster situations in addition to the fact that their soldiers stand on the border. It is enough to think of the red mud disaster on your lips or the 2013 Danube flood, where the Hungarian Defence Agency took a significant part in both the rescue and the defence. I am sure that the new instruments now being transferred will be put in the right place, and the Hungarian Defence Office will be able to cooperate more effectively with the co-organs, thus contributing to the development of the capabilities of the national disaster management system. During the development, the equipment park will increase, inter alia, in the field of amphibious transport capacity, earthwork, water exploration, rapid and professional chemical analysis of industrial accidents and transport of persons and materials. Thanks to the project, the Hungarian Defence Forces' disaster protection capabilities will be strengthened, thus increasing the security of the population. It is well known that the wallet has launched the programme of defence and force development of Zrínyi 2026, which will enrich the Hungarian forces with new capabilities by acquiring new tools. This is a long-term perspective, consistent with NATO expectations and their own interests. Dear Secretary of State, What do the recently acquired assets mean to the forces, including the disaster area? Why are these improvements significant? Can new EU support be envisaged for this sector? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-13-181	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In the framework of the priority project "Development of the Hungarian Defence Service in connection with disaster protection," the Hungarian Defence Office acquired 2 billion HUF EU funding and 210 million HUF. The Fundamental Law also states that the fundamental task of the Hungarian Defence Service is to protect the country, but it is also responsible for contributing to disaster management tasks with the main responsible person, the Ministry of Interior. During the development, modern tools were acquired, the project was carried out continuously, and the Hungarian Defence Office is expected to take over further instruments in the second quarter of 2018. Soldiers are always ready to help, they are prepared for every situation for the safety of citizens, and in addition to trained soldiers, modern technical tools are, of course, needed. But in addition to the above-mentioned procurements, thanks to the programme of defence and force development of Zrínyi 2026, there will be an increasing number of events when we will be handing over new tools and new tools, as our task and commitment is to renew the Hungarian force, which is a national matter. This is one of the basic conditions for the safety of Hungarian citizens. We are progressing towards the target, but the road is rugged because we faced a defence sector, large-scale depopulation and the disappearance of complete non-weapon cultures that had been destroyed to the extreme by socialist governments in 2010. But the Hungarian government is determined to develop the force, because the protection of the country is a national matter. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Mátyás Firtl. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-183	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I'm glad to hear that the government is committed to modernising the force. For my part, and for the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, I can assure you that we support all ideas and developments that promote and promote the efficiency of the Hungarian defence and the development of the sector. We look forward to further developments and reports on them, but let us thank the soldiers, on behalf of the factions, for what they are doing at the border, for what they are doing in the field of disaster protection, because it is the most important thing for us that our soldiers provide security for Hungarian people and security for Hungarian families. Thank you for this activity of the Hungarian Defence Forces. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary Tamás Vargha for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-13-185	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for the words of appreciation. The soldiers and soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces truly perform outstandingly, and modernisation is indeed one of our primary tasks and commitments in the coming time, and thanks to the performance of the Hungarian economy, the work of the Hungarian people, we also have the opportunity to make progress. The security of the Hungarian people is the first for the government, which is why we built a fence, which is why we strengthened border protection, against those who would help immigration, break down the border fence, and play the score of George Soros to weaken Hungary's security. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[To János Lázár:]] Thank you very much, Minister, for taking your place. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: why and how much does the government support the multinationals? It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. [[For signal:]] Congresswoman indicates that she accepts Minister János Lázár as a replyer. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor. Here you go. [[17.10]]
u2017-11-13-187	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, In three years, LMP was able to sue the extent of tax incentives granted to the government's strategic partners, the multinationals. No wonder they kept it a secret, since the support of the multinationals contradicts what the government claims to be of itself on a regular basis. Not only do they not fight the multinationals, but they increase their profits from our tax forints, by HUF 80 billion only to their strategic partners, only with one tool, and in just three years, while millions of Hungarian workers live on a salary that is not even worth the minimum of living or slightly above the minimum of living per month. In fact, multinationals are supported by a number of instruments: development tax incentives, direct State aid, public investment facilitation, tax relief, tax rulings, or the use of EU funds that is clearly in the interest of one company. Multis often do not have to ask, pro-government politicians struggle to give them the greatest possible discounts. The figures submitted by LMP show two years, i.e. individual tax incentives between 2012 and 14 But does the government have any idea how much they have supported multinational companies established in Hungary in nearly eight years? Companies, some of which have worked on printed wages for Hungarian workers, and this is what the government calls competitiveness, and it is based on consciously kept wages. So I ask Minister how much support has been given to the multinationals from our tax forints for eight years in total by the Orbán government. What was the aggregate value of development tax incentives, direct State aid, tax rulings and other subsidies that were granted to multinational companies operating in our country? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-11-13-188	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr. Secretary, you have two minutes to answer the question. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-11-13-189	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In relation to your question, which is a matter of volume that deserves perhaps more than two minutes of answers, more debate, I have prepared a background material that I will be very happy to provide to you, and I will send it to you in writing, which contains detailed statements on state aid, which we consider as an investment. You cannot doubt, Congresswoman, that for a country in economic competition with a population of 10 million, in the absence of mineral resources, it needs foreign investors to invest. Don't forget, Congresswoman, that if you ask businesses in Hungary, the biggest problem is the lack of capital, without capital, they cannot invest. Therefore, even considering the issues of R &amp; D and innovation, I think that Hungary needs strong foreign investors, and it always needs them, and it will also need them in the future. The question is whether, in addition to foreign investors who come to Hungary and receive support, Hungarian businesses receive support. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I consider it one of the greatest successes of governance that we have been able to agree with the European Union between 2014 and 20 with the EUR 25 billion coming from the European Union being largely and 60% to Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. That's the greatest result. So, while we naturally support large investors from abroad, we also support large Hungarian entrepreneurs, the Hungarian corporate circle, chance, opportunity and special support for small and medium-sized enterprises. If we hadn't done this, if we hadn't supported everyone, then we wouldn't have held that as many people have never worked in Hungary in the last 30 years as today. In 30 years, we have achieved that employment is 67-68 percent, which now reaches the European Union average. This is the result of 30 years of work together. Without large investors, foreign capital, innovation, investment, we would not have had the opportunity to do so, and this should be taken into account by the Member when she puts her opinion on this. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-190	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-11-13-191	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Then, of course, I will look forward to the information you promised in writing, and I am very curious about the exact figures. But he didn't answer why they were keeping secrets? Why are they hiding the extent of the discounts, why have they done so far? Why did we have to sue for three years to get these data, what other subsidies looked like, and why does the government itself claim to be fighting multinationals when they only gave us a discount of HUF 80 billion in the given form of support I mentioned? I could compare this to the settlement bonds. While they say they're fighting immigration, on the other hand, they're letting in 20,000 immigrants who pay your friends and Antal Rogán and him. It's the same thing. They say they are fighting against the multinationals, while giving many discounts, and you are quite consciously keeping Hungarian wages low, and that is the only and only basis for competitiveness. I wish there was more investment in innovation, which you mentioned. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And you are right, Minister, there is only one sentence: yes, they support large Hungarian entrepreneurs, large businesses close to the government. You have achieved one thing: you have built your own national capital class, and we will tear it down. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-13-192	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder, Minister. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-193	In the eclectic ideological portfolio of LMP, Marx's "A Capital," I see you're settling in. As far as your comment is concerned, Congresswoman, we have spoken clearly. In three areas, we believe that national interests had to be strengthened: in the banking sector, in the commercial sector and in the energy sector. In the banking sector, we have already reached the 50 percent Hungarian-owned banking system, in the energy sector the supply of Hungarian voters is predominantly Hungarian-owned and in two thirds Hungarian-owned, as far as gas supply is concerned, one hundred percent so, and in the retail sector we were able to achieve partial success. I am one of those who thinks that if retail is in national interest, the country is more independent. I would like to say that the minimum wage was 74 thousand forints when we started governing, and when we close this cycle, the minimum wage will be 138 500 forints. I know that this still doesn't seem like much, but don't forget that before that, wages in Hungary have declined steadily, and in recent years there has been a 10 percent increase in real wages. I believe that this performance would not have been achieved without the help of businesses, investments, small and medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises in Hungary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-194	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, [[János Lázár is leaving the Chamber.]] Representative Sándor Font, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question, "How is the implementation of the Rural Development Programme?" It's an address. Mr. Minister, as you can see, you must leave now because of an urgent public mission, and you have appointed Mr.Secretary Miklós Kis to answer. I respectfully ask you if you'll accept the person you're responding to. [[Sándor Font nodds.]] Congressman indicates his acceptance of Secretary of State Miklós Kis as a response. Congressman Font has the floor, please.
u2017-11-13-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, More and more, the EU support system is being made a political factor by the Western Member States in order to implement the action plans they have envisaged instead of consensus-based solutions to address the migration crisis in Europe. It is increasingly likely that this phenomenon will also affect the development of a framework for the EU support cycle starting in 2020 and even news that agricultural subsidies and rural development will be the losers of political debates on the management of the migration crisis. At the same time, it is important to be aware that, from a professional point of view, further planning of the system is of great importance to how individual Member States perform in the use of resources. Even if these two factors are taken into account, the use of rural development funds is already a key opportunity for the Hungarian countryside in every conceivable scenario. We have not started from a bad situation; more money than ever, some HUF 1300 billion in rural development support is currently being assessed. This spring, as planned at the beginning of the support cycle, all eligible applications have been launched. Submission, evaluation, notification of the winners and payment of the amounts awarded are ongoing. So I ask the Secretary of State: how many applications have been closed, how many are still open? What are the most popular labels? How many applications have been decided? What part of the available resources are already included in the aid granted and, finally, at what rate will the decision-making continue? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Kis. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[17.20]]
u2017-11-13-197	Mr President, Honourable Members, Unfortunately, I can confirm that there are indeed ideas in Brussels that want to transfer funds originally intended for agriculture to address the migration crisis, and this would not only be true for the period after 2020, but would also affect the 2014-20 budget. The National Chamber of Agricultural Economy at all its possible forums, such as the COPA-COGECA, said at the meetings of the Agrarian V4 that we are not going to let this happen, and it is not possible to take a forint from agricultural funds to deal with the migration crisis. Of course, the government has followed this principle, and in all possible forums where the decision is to be prepared, this position has been expressed and rural development funds or agricultural funds need not be transferred to migration purposes for the budget cycle 2014-20, but it is still a mystery what obligations we will have for the post-2020 period, but in each forum we represent that these resources can only be allocated to those living in agriculture. As far as rural development applications and the programme are concerned, I would like to say that out of the HUF 1300 billion we have launched 68 calls for proposals, of which 36 are already closed, some HUF 1000 billion of funding. We currently have 33 open applications, worth some 330 billion HUF. In total, we have made a commitment to HUF 890 billion, which means that we are already 76 percent of the theoretically possible decisions, which also means that we have been able to decide on 38 calls for proposals, which is obviously very popular: livestock, gardening, subsidies related to the food industry. In addition, I wanted to say that some HUF 180 billion of support decisions are still under way, which is likely to happen by the end of the year, with some 7,000 applications by the end of the year. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-198	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Font has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-199	Thank you, Mr Secretary, for your reassuring reply. I hope that what happened in 2008-2009 did not happen, that, as the socialists drew to the end of the electoral cycle, they threw the reins among the horses, leaving behind a huge mess in the area of rural development and its payment. The current government had to make an enormous effort to finally draw Hungary's funds up to 2013 by 100%. I understand that two other EU Member States have succeeded in doing only this feat. We are preparing for this 100% call to take place now, in this cycle until 2020. However, we are now about halfway through the cycle. I ask Mr Secretary of State if there is any comparative data on what data we are providing now halfway across, and what data were in the schedule of the previous cycle, the drawdowns during the socialist period 2007-13. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-13-200	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-201	Thank you very much. Compared to the previous cycle, 38 so-called title decrees were published in the previous UMPP cycle for the same period, representing 39 percent of the total. We have announced 100 percent of rural development programmes compared to this, and in practice, when we look at the envelope, we were able to advertise 100 percent of it until the spring period. During this short period of time, 54 percent of the total total was achieved. It may be interesting to see how we are doing with payments, because it is also very important that farmers get their money on time. I report that the government was able to report an advance over the last year, and that all possible advance-type payments will be made by the end of November. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the hour of immediate questioning. It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Kónya, together with the necessary number of support representatives, has proposed that the Parliament decide on the European Public Prosecutor's Office H/17747 on accession Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on European Affairs. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Péter Kónya, in a five-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As you know, the European Public Prosecutor's Office was decided at the plenary session of the Strasbourg Parliament on 5 October 2017, to which EU Member States can voluntarily join. So far, 20 countries have indicated their accession to enhanced cooperation with the European Public Prosecutor's Office, including countries such as Austria, Romania, Slovenia and Slovakia, so our neighbouring countries undertake to participate in this cooperation, while Hungary, and let us say Poland, has not yet indicated their accession. I think that in a situation in which Hungary is in place, while we can use the highest per capita European Union support, while OLAF's report on the use of EU funds last year was that Hungary has the largest share of cheated money, the European Union grants, and while the European Commission's Commissioner for Justice, Věra Jourová, talks about the need to link the use and payment of European Union cohesion funds with the rule of law in the Eastern Central European countries, and when some Member States are already talking about a two-speed Europe, a decision not to join a voluntary accession, and I do not think that otherwise that the use of the funds paid by taxpayers in the various EU countries in Hungary should be fair and non-corruption, and that should be properly controlled, and, if necessary, that the legal consequences of Hungary should also be made, if any abuse is done, I think that Hungary will issue a very bad certificate of itself, and that if our fellow members of the government do not support this in Hungary, and that of a very bad way, that of a party, because of a party, I myself think, and I think that there are many of us so, my fellow Members in opposition will certainly see it the same way, and I cannot accept the argument that the Committee on European Affairs said at its meeting that it could be interfering with our national sovereignty, or that such a decision could be hurt, because it would be a voluntary commitment, on the one hand, and on the other hand, why the Romanians do not feel that way, why the Austrians do not feel that way, why the twenty countries that have already announced their accession do not feel that way. Probably because they have nothing to fear. Probably because they think it is important that if we use subsidies from others, it should be done fairly. I would certainly ask you to support this proposal and to debate it in Parliament - because we must now decide whether we will open the debate on this issue - and argue for a long time whether or not such a proposal can be supported. Tell them why they don't, but then they'll assume the consequences and the responsibility if, in the coming period, there are cases of corruption that prove that, in any case, European Union funds have been cheated away in Hungary. Let us not forget, however, that a number of complaints have been made by my fellow opposition Members over the past seven years and, unfortunately, very few cases have been investigated or investigated by the prosecution. Not to mention that very few cases have been prosecuted in relation to the use of EU funds, while I think that we have all met with some flagrant cases that have clearly demonstrated that there has been some kind of sundam-fur money fraud or even abuse. As a Hungarian person and as a Hungarian citizen, I do not want to go through Europe with the shame of saying that Hungarian people are fraudsters, Hungarian people are cheating away the sums paid by taxpayers in other countries. I ask you to support my suggestion. Thank you. [[17 .30]]
u2017-11-13-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I'll ask who the factions want to speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor first from the Jobbik Group to Congressman Tibor Bana. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As has already been said, this proposal was put on the agenda at the meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs. There, too, I explained Jobbik's position that a substantive debate on the issue of the European Public Prosecutor's Office should take place at the plenary session of the Parliament, and we can certainly support it, as we can see that corruption has grown to a greater extent in Hungary than ever before. Unfortunately, since 2010, we have seen that this is the essence of Fidesz's policy, as one of their ideologists has put it in the background, and in recent years this process has certainly accelerated, which is what Hungarians face every day. On the other hand, as has already been mentioned, we can see that the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office and Péter Polt, as the Attorney General, are not only not performing the task that would be entrusted to him, but, on the other hand, there are clearly politically controlled decisions in Hungary, even though reports have been made by the members of the Jobbik faction, there has not been any substantive consequences, and the Jobbik government will expect accountability from 2018. And we will also undertake to set up an independent prosecutor's office that can carry out its task in substance. Of course, it is important that the issue of national sovereignty comes up at this time, and if we could have a debate on this issue, on which, unfortunately, I have reservations, because I am sure that they will not support it from the pro-government side, because they are trying to protect their own interests, then we could explain the direction in which we should go. But after voluntary accession in this case, Jobbik can clearly support this. This is our position, therefore, that we should move in this direction, because the most important thing is that we act against corruption with all possible means. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-13-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Richárd Hörcsik is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-207	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As Vice-President Bana mentioned, this topic was thoroughly explored at the European Affairs Committee meeting two weeks ago. This is all the more important, because I would like to reassure my fellow Member Konya that, in line with the Parliament's proposal or resolution, the Government has not supported accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office because it is either afraid of EU investigations or would be against the control of the use of EU funds, which is not the case, because there are two EU institutions, Eurojust and OLAF. We also said in the debate that we have basically constitutional concerns. But not just for us, but also for seven other countries. It is true that the decision on the EPPO was taken and was supported by only 20 Member States instead of 28. In other words, in addition to Hungary, seven other Member States do not participate: Sweden, the Netherlands, Malta, Denmark, Ireland, the United Kingdom and Poland. I hardly believe that these countries would be afraid to investigate the European Commission or even to investigate corruption. I know it is very difficult for my fellow Members here to understand that we have a constitutional problem in the first place, and we have also said here in the debate that there is a question of its functionality, effectiveness and consistency with the constitutional arrangements of Hungary, which not only Hungary, but also the seven Member States mentioned. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-11-13-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the group of the LMP, Mr István Ikotity, Member of the Parliament, is next. Here you go.
u2017-11-13-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Of course, the LMP supports the inclusion of the proposal for a decision. Unifying the European Public Prosecutor's Office would help protect the EU budget, speed up the search for perpetrators of fraud that harm EU funds and facilitate their prosecution. This would significantly increase the effectiveness of anti-corruption action. The vast majority of domestic developments are based on EU funds, and the main pillar of Hungary's development is the most effective, but appropriate and sustainable use of EU funds, where not only the amount of public money and the amount of public money burned, but also quality; where the number of high-priced lawns, squarestones or fountains laid down by buddies' companies is not the standard rate of productivity, value creation and sustainability. In recent decades, one of the main crimes committed is that, instead of exploiting the historical potential of EU funds, a significant proportion of the funds landed through the channels of buddy capitalism in private pockets. In our view, the Orbán government was on the side of dishonesty and sledding when, disguised as defending sovereignty, it hindered Hungarian participation in the new institution from its own well-conceived financial interest. It is not surprising for a government whose main policy is in corruption, as has been said by the head of their own institute. However, it is bad news for the government that LMP will continue to follow up on all corrupt and shameful cases, and we believe that, in order to facilitate this, the first measures should be to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office after the change of government. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-11-13-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the MSZP Group, Mr Zsolt Legény is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party naturally supports the application for a series of articles, and, if I may, I would like to support this with a few sentences. Overall, when we refer to the deepening and tightening of European integration processes, the Hungarian Socialist Party always takes a supportive position in this. I could say that, unlike my better fellow Members, they may want less Europe, we might want more Europe if we were to put it very simply. But, of course, we understand the concerns that Fidesz or even the government has in relation to this particular European prosecutor's office, perhaps even we understand constitutional concerns, because it is not always right for the European Commission to want to carry out legislative tasks. However, we believe that it is indeed true, as my good-looking colleague Tibor Bana said, that today we can express very serious criticisms and very serious concerns about the functioning of the prosecution in Hungary, which we have done several times, even with regard to our parliamentary contributions to the prosecution. So, on the whole, we can say that joining the European Public Prosecutor's Office is to be supported and supported. And we also think that it is true that perhaps the government's well-conceived interest here is what we would like to say as to how the draining of systemic EU funds could perhaps now continue in a controlled way, and we believe that this could also be a good institution, by the way. But overall, we can say that it is indeed to be supported. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-13-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr Péter Kónya if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Peter Konya stands up.]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-213	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to say that if there are constitutional concerns about accession: you have amended the granite-solid Fundamental Law so many times that we have the opportunity to amend the Fundamental Law in this matter too, if you consider it necessary, because there is a constitutional concern. I myself undertake to provide you with the support necessary for two-thirds of this, if this is the case. [[Dr. Vas Imre: Alone?]] And I'm gonna get another congressman to do it, and then we can vote for the amendment of the basic law - if that's all you're worried about. At the same time, János Lázár, Minister for the Use of European Money, today's Freudian speech confirmed my belief that it would be necessary to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. [[17.40]] Because when it comes to a question of why it is not legally possible to solve such a simple question, he says that it has such a wide spectrum that he does not even know how to answer it, I think that this is a concern, and it is not a concern whether it now has constitutional concerns or not. You, my fellow Members, are afraid of a referendum as a fire. [[Complaining from the benches of the MSZP: Like a devil from incense smoke.]] I would like to add that I am ready and have prepared all the necessary documents to submit this as a referendum question, and I will, if you will vote no tomorrow. So you have one more day to revise your view, and if you don't want a referendum from this, I suggest that you vote in favour of this proposal. By the way, and I will intentionally present it as an independent parliamentary representative that all opposition parties and, say, civil society organisations such as the CÖF, which claim to be a great Hungarian, have repeatedly explained that it would be good to act against corruption here, and then he will join in collecting signatures, and a number of civil society organisations will join it, because I think it is in the interests of all Hungarian people that Hungary should not be a corrupt country. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause from the benches of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2017-11-13-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. We now have the MSZP Group's motion. The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide to make the most effective anti-cancer medicines available to all and T/17956 amending Act C of 2017 on Hungary's central budget for 2018 to restore the functioning of the general medical system. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Budgets. I now give the floor to the rapporteur in a five-minute time frame, Mr László Szakács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, First of all, let me tell you what an interesting meeting of the Committee on Budgets was when we discussed this, as I sat there as rapporteur, and as a rapporteur, I could say, both as regards the availability of general practitioners and the availability of medicines for the treatment of cancer patients, on what grounds, on which we ask the committee to decide. There was only one argument we couldn't hear. There was only one argument the Fidesz MEPs did not make, who sat there in the majority of the committee meeting, on which they could rely. They didn't say anything. During the vote, the majority of the sexes raised their hands, I believe, with the exception of one who abstained. You didn't have any arguments, and I think that's the most important thing. What's this about? As rapporteur on the legislative proposal, there are two areas where this proposal for a budget amendment could have been resolved a long time ago. They tried one, but they didn't succeed; the other one was made by you. One of the problems is the question of general practitioners. Today, we read statistics every month in Hungary, mostly between 280 and 360, the number of GP practices that have been vacant for more than half a year. That means that a lot of nearly a million people don't get to a doctor when they're sick. Practically this is: if you are sick, there is no doctor you can find, this practice is not filled. We thought, seeing your failure in this, that we were trying to help. You have really tried to make this profession attractive with money, and basically you can even say that you may not have been in the wrong place, but there have been gross errors in the implementation. Such was, for example, the increase in practice money. Just because of contributions calculated differently, for example, this meant a certain wage increase of a certain percentage in inpatient or active care, so it meant a lot less than GP practices, 8-10 percent less, in Hungarian, but you didn't actually make this area attractive. And wherever you look at it, the number of unfilled GP practices doesn't fall from month to month, it grows from month to month. The second is what you have created: in recent years, a number of their proposals and not least their decisions have come to light on the treatment of people with cancer. All of these are very, very serious professional, social and - to be said - face moral and moral walls. If we say them, for example, the first was that over 74 years of age, we no longer have to give these therapy medications to anyone, since the chances of survival over 74 years are very low, just like the treatment of the last three months, which offers us the least success. Yet we must say that it is the most expensive, but perhaps these are humane aspects, not budgetary considerations. Then came your next decision to go around the business, and you met everyone's objection that personalized therapy should not be used in the future for cancer, but the one that is most cost-effective. Not the best healer, not the patient's interests, the patient's body must give him the best medicines, not the ones that are most likely to prolong his life or improve his quality of life, or point to recovery, but the ones that are the best to spare the budget. We thought that we would help you find the money, and we would like to allocate 77 billion forints. I trust that Parliament will change the decision of the committee without arguments and take the money from the propaganda industry and take the money from the royal television, in Hungarian, from public television, from one to 50 billion forints and from the other 20,5 billion forints. We believe that the Hungarians will still be fine with less propaganda. Fewer drugs, especially the medicine that may not work, but spares the budget, saves the state's pocket - I do not think that is necessary. It's a decision that you have to change. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-13-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the independent representative who is the first to speak in a two-minute time frame. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak on behalf of the factions. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I am speaking to Mr László György Lukács of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-217	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The diagnosis that we have in the proposal before us, although it is money from health care, is beyond discussion, but it is still suffering from serious shortages. Unfortunately, this process can be derived from a technological ageing process, which can be seen well in 1990, and from its continuous state, and therefore the governments at the moment are also responsible, because it was clear in 1990 that the ageing population, the growing technological demand, would result in a constant need for money. Perhaps today the Minister of Prime Minister János Lázár said that this will continue to be a matter for future resolution and a task for current governments to make more money for this. That is why this proposal itself is attempting to do the same. Of course, there is a proper, orthodox and unorthodox way of doing this. Obviously, the orthodox way is to define well in a budget the figures that are sufficient for the annual budget and for the operation of health care. As you can see, these are usually underdesigned, and a continuous cash-flow adjustment is needed on both the drug and the supplier's side of specialized care. The other, the unorthodox way, of course, is when it comes to mechanical engineering, and perhaps the opposition or the government is trying to inject it in some way, whether by government decree or by some kind of parliamentary decree. In any case, it's very clear what both of them have in mind. For this reason, I believe that this proposal can also be supported. The aim is to bring substantial money to health care, precisely because all statistics show that Hungarian health is not in a good position, there is a lot to be spent on. And then the ideal situation could finally be realized that once a year, Lőrinc Mészáros does not advance on the list of billionaires, but that healthcare can advance even in an international or EU comparison. Please, fellow Members, this is indeed an important proposal, and let us support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-13-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the group of the MSZP, Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament is coming. Here you go. [[17.50]]
u2017-11-13-219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In terms of general medical practices, as László Szakács said, 280-360 practices are unfilled in the process of six months' reflection. Technically, this means that people can't get near care. This is not only a question of money, obviously, but the task of this lack of practice, of filling practices is, in a sense, a question of money, not random, to create the intention and willingness to redeploy, which, in the order of 77 billion dollars, also aims to ensure access to this issue and to the most effective anticancer medicines. The most shameful thing is that in this matter there is no opposition from pro-government politicians, they have a vote against. They do not dare to express their arguments, because they are perfectly clear to them, and they are aware that they cannot do so, or that their moral-moral considerations are such a barrier that they cannot do so. But in the meantime, their vote against will be made public, whether in committee or not, with regard to Parliament's vote. And the most shameful thing in the world is that after a certain age, in this case after age 74, the therapeutic medicine is not guaranteed, it is not granted, and because it is not personalized therapy, but it is happening, in your mind, it is gaining ground about how its cost-effectiveness can be formulated in this question. This is shameful and unacceptable, so please reconsider. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-13-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am speaking to Mr Tamás László of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The MSZP is presenting a health-related proposal that took 600 billion forints out of health care before 2010. On the other hand, what have we done? In the framework of on-call care, we have reached a 66.3% increase compared to 2010, with HUF 52 billion more. As of June 1, 2017, the financing of the general medical service will grow again by HUF 130 thousand, and as of March 1, 2017, the financing of the general medical service will also increase by HUF 130 thousand. And there is a very separate item that is intended to encourage and encourage community practice, and I think that this can be a step forward that is a huge issue for the exercise of general practice, and that is something that needs to be worked on. I gotta tell you, it's the 15th. We have already taken very important steps in the district between 2010 and 14th district. The large practice institute in New Palota was renovated by HUF 600 billion from EU funds, where there can also be practice communities. That's the kind of gym that needs a lot, by the way. We're doing two more in this cycle, we've already handed over one that we started in the previous era, it's in the former Russian hospital area, and another is now being built, it's a HUF 500-500 million investment. And I must say that if we are talking about cancer cure, we have spent 27 billion forints more on the medicine of patients with this disease since 2010, so I think that from this point of view, Fidesz should not be ashamed, we have taken a lot of steps on these issues that you raise. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Mrs. Loránt Violin will take her place in the notary's seat.]]
u2017-11-13-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr László Szakács, on behalf of the authors, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your support. I also thank Fidesz for having an opinion, so I can decide which is better, by the way, when they did not have an opinion at the committee meeting, or when they do. What have you done now, my fellow Member? First of all, he rated the parliamentary party which presented the proposal; the proposal was not exactly qualified. The other thing he did was talk home. These are the two he could do with this thing. And if you have already added 27 billion forints to the purchase of cancer medicine, then you think that this is enough - but not enough - and you are blocking the proposal that could increase it by 77 billion forints. They are blocking the proposal that could make this much more - it could be four times the current amount - simply because you think that is enough. You will have to look the voters in the eye and say that I ask you nicely, we think it's enough that people over 74 don't start therapy anymore, we think it's enough that 300,000 registered cancer patients and 80,000 more registered cancer patients a year will not get the most effective medicine, but will get the medicine you can pay off from the budget, which you thought you could pay for from the budget. And you will have to say that we did all this because we defended the money that we gave to Antal Rogán's Ministry to fill the country with posters. That's where the HUF 20.5 billion goes, which we have now proposed not to use for this, but for medicines. You can now be proud, brave, on the basis of this opinion, that no, we did not want to buy medicine from it, because we wanted to posters all over the country. That's your opinion, that's your policy. I trust you have the decency, humanity, professionalism to change this decision. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-11-13-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear fellow Members, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the abolition of arbitrary, adverse or unreasonable discrimination between civil society organisations H/17684. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy on behalf of the authors. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-225	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As we said at the committee meeting, this bill is more relevant than it is right now. It cannot be because, in relation to the law on the stigmatisation of civil society organisations, the European Commission is facing infringement proceedings against Hungary, and I believe that, apart from the fact that the arguments that we have said in the civil law debate and after that, Hungary's authority will again be undermined by the fact that our country will be remarnished in this matter. I understand that your political campaign is partly based on this, this lying rhetoric, which, by the way, seeks to brand civilians branded as Soros civil organizations in a legal sense. That's what your civil law is all about. It is no coincidence that, almost immediately after the referral, it caused public uproar both at home and beyond our borders. My fellow Member Hollik wonders, but he does. By the way, the fact that your lackey media was practically spreading it as propaganda doesn't mean that society would have believed it otherwise. Because if you had noticed, there were quite a lot of crowds on the streets about the civil law and the CEU and they were demonstrating against the two legislative proposals. [[18.00]] The crowd has demanded that you complete the policy you are pursuing in this regard. This policy is nothing but to launch an attack on non-nice, not on social groupings representing your position. They launch attacks in Parliament, attack through their media empire, and attack through legislative acts. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] You have to see that this is a process that we said back then, which is what it's all about. It's about if you don't like the direction of a university, you'll try to shut it down for various administrative reasons and even put salt on its place. It is about the fact that if you do not like the critical standing of civil society organisations against the government, then first, on the Prime Minister's personal order, after which Kehi will be illegally instigated by the court, possibly initiated a tax investigation against him, removed their documents, taken by patrol cars and escorted in by the leaders of civil society organisations, and then, of course, it turns out that this is not effective. And when we're done with this, they're putting forward a bill that brands civil society organisations that they hope are not nice to you. The fact that this bill is a little bit off is a different matter, but that was clearly your goal. Don't tell me this is all about transparency, because this is bullshit. It is because it is connected to this, as I said, a communication campaign where they say: György Soros is the enemy of the Hungarian state. The NGOs you name because you don't like what they say are funded by George Soros. With the legislation, they want to show what civil society organisations are financed by George Soros. From this, we have a very simple logical relationship, so that if such NGOs indicate it, then they are traitors and enemies of the country. That is what this proposal is about, ladies and gentlemen, it has nothing to do with transparency. We demand the withdrawal of this shameful bill. And once again, there is no doubt about its actuality, because this could prevent Hungary from being condemned for the many, many more times in another infringement procedure. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-13-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, Member of the Jobbik Group, is coming to speak. I'll give you the floor for two minutes.
u2017-11-13-227	Thank you very much. There is much truth in what Mr Barándy has said, and I still believe that this proposal is not relevant in this form because of two things. On the one hand, because it can be said with 100% certainty that the governing parties will not support it, and on the other hand, we want to remain consistent with our previous position, which was that we were not against the intention of the government to communicate in itself, that more transparency was needed, especially for organisations that would receive funding from abroad - we could have agreed on that - but this law did not comply with it, and it was not appropriate in this respect, because it left a number of loopholes. Questions have been raised that we have not received any meaningful answers from our fellow Members who have Fidesz since politics can be influenced not only from abroad, but also from the home country in two ways. György Soros, a Hungarian citizen, can place his money at a foundation, which then divides it nicely, and his money already doesn't apply. You didn't think of that in such a hurry. The second is a major problem with it: domestic funding is a matter for organisations that cannot account for, for example, government resources or state resources. Yeah, yeah, you're right, I'm talking about the COF. A few days ago, or a week ago, I fought here with the Secretary of State of Aradsk, because for you, my dear fellow Members of the Fidesz, transparency is not important when it comes to filling your lackey civil society organisations, your fake civilians, with 100 million forints from state companies in order to carry out propaganda that is embarrassing the opposition. Because we continue to believe that László Csizmadia's brigade spent HUF 508 million on this, and despite the statement of the Data Protection Commissioner, the Rosary Secretary of State stands up and says that they still believe that the info law does not apply to this organization, it does not apply to the CÖF. So we believe that this law is not good in itself, we want a different civil law, we want a thorough review of the whole civil sphere and we want to make a more comprehensive law, and we will therefore abstain on this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-13-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre in two minutes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-229	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We have already said at the committee meeting that the original law is neither arbitrary nor discriminatory. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] It is neither unreasonable nor unreasonable, however, to indicate that the authors have some persecutional mania in this regard, who are actually starting out on their own, because they would probably present a bill in this style. What is interesting is that Congressman Bárándy already knows the outcome of the infringement procedure. However, the Member forgot to mention that the European Commission is trying to pursue a procedure against Hungary where there is always two months before the reasoned opinion is answered, and Hungary has been given one month to do so. This did not bother Mr Barándy much, but was more concerned with protecting the Soros Empire within the walls of this House. I think that the interests of the Hungarian people should be protected by all Members of Parliament. Moreover, the vast majority of civil society organisations did not object to this law. CSOs have raised objections to a very well-defined, otherwise small circle, just those supported by György Soros, but that's just the way it is. By the way, some people are proud to show that they are receiving support from abroad, so we do not recommend that the resolution proposal be included in the scope. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Ikotity, LMP Group.
u2017-11-13-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The promotion and transparency of civil society organisations is a constitutionally acceptable objective, but only if they are implemented in conjunction with all major public funding under EU and international agreements, as well as with the activities and organisational forms of public bodies receiving public funds under any title from public companies and party foundations. On the other hand, the lex civilian involved in the resolution proposal is an inadequate, unnecessary and disproportionate regulatory attempt on the basis of daily political interests, along the political interests of the government, which has no place in the legal system, and the LMP therefore naturally supports the inclusion of this proposal for a resolution, since all means must be taken to remove the law that stigmatize, inapplyable and discriminatory civil society organisations from the legal system. At the same time, I would like to remind you that LMP's motion, supported by the other opposition parties, is before the Constitutional Court, contrary to its title, a law which does not serve a trace of transparency. Unfortunately, the proposal for a resolution before us does not have a realistic chance on the basis of parliamentary mathematics, but we very much hope that the Constitutional Court will soon make a positive decision on this issue. Thank you for the floor.
u2017-11-13-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP Group.
u2017-11-13-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The fact is that my fellow Members have tabled this proposal for a resolution because, as Mr Vas Imre said, he thinks that we have a passion for persecution; no, it is for those civil society organisations, for those social groups that you are trying to put at a disadvantage. We have talked about several times, for many years, that we do not like the legislative mechanism of Fidesz, to put it very nicely, in Hungarian, when they want to carry personalised legislation through this House and even carry it through with their majority of governments. I would think that could be natural, but I do not think that it would be good for you to always highlight someone and want to put those people and groups in a very, very serious position with positive benefits, and the same is true from the other side, and when you want to label someone, someone, organisations. [[18.10]] This is what we say is a very ugly process in your legislation; we could also say that it is an extremely unconstitutional process. Overall, we do not think this is a good solution, and we believe that it will not be good if civil society organisations are targeted and put at a disadvantage in different ways. We claim... - the name of György Soros has already been mentioned here in Parliament several times in connection with this proposal for a resolution. It's not about George Soros. What this is about is that if you don't like any of the social groups, civil society organisations, some kind of citizens' initiative, you don't like it, you don't belong to your lackey civil society organisations, like the CF, you're trying to make it impossible because you want to put this, let's say, dictatorial agenda through here. This is what my Parliaments have spoken against, which is why they have tabled this proposal for a resolution. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-13-234	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Hollik, KDNP Group.
u2017-11-13-235	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, There is a fundamental claim to this proposal for a decision, and we cannot support this proposal for a decision because this basic statement is false. The basic statement is that the Civil Transparency Act renders NGOs impossible in Hungary and stigmatizes civil society organisations in Hungary. I would also like to inform you that, in compliance with your legal obligations so far, 53 organisations have registered themselves, and you can look at it on the Civil Portal. Among these are the Hungarian Ecological Assistance Organisation, the Hungarian Red Cross, for example. They don't say that this law would have influenced their operation in any way that I shouldn't say it would have made it impossible. So the statement you're saying doesn't stand the test of reality. It is very interesting, however, that just those organisations protested against this law, which George Soros financed. In fact, the only organisations that have not complied with this law, and have not registered themselves to this day, who are otherwise financed by George Soros. And we have made this law because we believe that in democracy, in a rule of law, the most effective weapon against external influence attempts is the public. This law provides for nothing more than the disclosure of the fact of foreign financing by those who are financed from abroad. It doesn't make me impossible and it doesn't label me. We cannot therefore support this proposal for a decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-13-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Gergely Bárándy, as rapporteur, if he wishes to reply. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to say...
u2017-11-13-238	[[Without sound:]] ... on behalf of him. Excuse me, Congressman, I'm going to give you the time frame back. You have the floor.
u2017-11-13-239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also have liked to have listened to Mr Répássy's arguments, and I regret that the house rules do not allow that. All I would like to say to Congressman Hollik is who are protesting, so those who are being persecuted are protesting. It's extremely simple. The other is that persecution mania is not the same as being persecuted and therefore speaks out. I think that this is clearly the latter, because this is not the first attack on these civil society organisations, but, as I said in my first speech, this is the number one. And it's probably not a persecution mania when you're speaking up after all those attacks to not do that. What you're doing here, by the way, is the Russian model. In Russia, Putin does the same thing, you copy these laws: the civil law, the CEU law, and much more. I sincerely hope that this system, which is in Russia, will not be as full as it is in Hungary. The other is the infringement procedure. Congressman Vas asked me how I knew we'd fail. From the point of view, my honourable fellow Member, that, so far, almost all infringement procedures have been unsuccessful. It is extremely easy to figure out, it will probably not be new in the line, and Hungary will also be detained here, because this procedure will be launched in cases where not only the European Commission believes that you are acting illegally and in an unacceptable way, but also Hungarian parliamentary parties, Hungarian public life. And whether it's arbitrary or not, they know the joke of what a hundred madmen are up against. There are at least a hundred madmen on the freeway, because everyone here, in Hungary, thinks it's arbitrary what you're doing. So once again, I ask the Honourable Parliament to reconsider, to spare Hungary another set of failures and trials, and to withdraw this bill. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-11-13-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry to Explore Fidesz's Campaign Expenditures H/17595. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First I give the floor to the author, within a five-minute time frame. The author is our colleague György Szilágyi. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-241	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, As is known, the Fidesz government is constantly attacking the opposition, in particular the strongest opposition party, Jobbik, accused of various things. They came to the point that in July 2017 they had unconstitutionally achieved that Jobbik would not be able to advertise in posters in the future. Fidesz criticized that Jobbik, in their view, could receive posters at too low a price. However, they did not think at that time when this attack was launched that sooner or later they would fall into their own trap. They did not expect to find their 2010 campaign spending, which forced them to keep secrets and lie. That is because in 2010 Fidesz only had to pay 58 percent of the price calculated from Jobbik's data per poster. So the current list prices should have paid about HUF 1 billion for what they actually paid only HUF 23 million for. In view of this, as it is legitimate that Viktor Orbán and his party leaders acted in an illegal manner in the 2010 election campaign of Fidesz, it turned out that the Hír TV Programme Provider and Advertisement Organizer Zrt. organized the Fidesz campaign. its current management does not find any evidence that Fidesz was charged with the costs of seven years ago, so the campaign provided by Hír TV was completely free of charge for Fidesz. Indeed, this act raises a breach of the rules on party financing, which indeed raises fraud and unfair party financing. In fact, it also appeared from the data, and it seems to be true that 1300 posters were posted without an invoice at the time. We do know that we are talking about 2010 and what complicates this situation is that the current governing party has only made a third of the expenditure on outdoor advertising of the 2010 parliamentary elections to the State Court of Auditors, as the amount of money actually entered into the accounts of the March-April 2010 period with Mahir Cityposter. So here, with regard to the SAO, Fidesz tried to deceive the SAO, and here comes the possibility of fraud. This is a very important issue, however, and it should be investigated, so we would like to set up a committee of inquiry, because they did so in 2014, and in 2014 they rented giant posters from the same company and in the same amount. But as for the 2010 elections, you have received two thirds in Parliament as a result of this election. [[18.20]] The question is that if you are here during the elections by fraud, even by deceiving the State Audit Office, thus distorting the election results by fraud, by cheating, you have managed to obtain two thirds, then whether this government is legitimate. It would be in your interest to investigate these cases. It would also be in your interest to clarify whether Fidesz achieved two thirds in 2010. This is a very, very important question. So, if you have nothing to hide, I would like to ask the members of the Government, because opposition representatives and opposition groups and, by the way, independent Members support this initiative to set up a committee of inquiry, I would like to ask you not to obstruct the establishment of this committee of inquiry and the functioning of this committee of inquiry. If you have nothing to hide, if you have a clear conscience, then you would support the establishment of this committee of inquiry, so I would ask you to prove to me, even by doing so, that you have nothing to hide, even by doing so, that you have not deceived the SAO. Prove by this action that you did not deceive Hungarian voters, prove that you were not campaigning illegally in 2010. And if this committee of inquiry stands up and finds that out, then you may have a perfectly clear conscience. If not, if you wish to prevent the establishment of this committee of inquiry, then it makes it clear that you have cheated in 2010, it makes it clear that you have deceived Hungarian voters and makes it clear that you have acquired the two-thirds majority of them in Parliament by fraud and illegal means. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-13-242	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-13-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think it is well known before the entire Parliament, but who attends the meeting of the Judicial Committee more or less regularly, that this proposal for a resolution cannot be included in a series of subjects, because in this matter a committee of inquiry cannot be set up in accordance with the provisions of the Parliamentary Act. The question arises as to why Jobbik submitted it then, two of their representatives are really there regularly at the committee meeting. Well, that's because they want to distract attention from their own poster scandal. By the way, the poster scandal itself, apart from the fact that Jobbik couldn't justify the cover of the poster site in any way, so in my opinion it was practically forbidden party financing, were so greedy that they didn't even look at it anyway, that if they bought posters, they would also have to ask the owner of the poster space, typically one of the municipalities, for permission to use public space. This caused quite a scandal in the country, however, that they could not prove what they bought it from, and that, on the one hand, they tried to post posters without a permit to use public space, and then they would refer to who would take off their posters and how they would take off their posters, which is obviously completely illegal. So this is what you want to distract attention from this proposal for a resolution, or by setting up a committee of inquiry, so I would ask the more sober-thinking part of the Parliament not to include this resolution proposal in a series of articles, because it cannot be included in a series of subjects according to the current legislative regulations. Thank you for listening.
u2017-11-13-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group.
u2017-11-13-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I do not wish to argue professionally with my fellow Member whether or not a committee of inquiry can be set up on such a subject, because this will not take two minutes. However, I suggest that, for consideration, honourable Member Vas, you should come to your senses and consider that, since you have been on the government, for seven years, you have not contributed to the setting up of a single committee of inquiry. Not a single one! Because you think that seven years ago, there was only one subject that could have been set up. So, I think this alone will determine the argument you've just made here. They're always trying to hide behind some kind of formal excuse. Unfortunately, the thing is, you have to try a committee of inquiry when you see that, by the way, the Fidesz Attorney General refuses to act on such and similar matters. That would be a good thing, and it would be a good thing if there were criminal proceedings in this case a long time ago. It is clear from the outset that this is a matter of illegal campaign funding. There was concrete evidence of that. More concrete evidence than one of the parties involved saying that this was the case and that he's actually filing a complaint against himself, that's all it's gonna take. You sometimes bring criminal proceedings into a deposition, of course, if it is to be done against opposition politicians, but in such cases, and when there is a recording of the crime, interestingly, the Attorney General does not do so. So, since this is not happening, the committee of inquiry, honourable Members, will remain, so that at least the country can receive moral compensation for the crime you have committed. The other is that it's not about Jobbik, and it's not about Jobbik's poster campaign and yours, it's about what you did in a forbidden way. The OSCE election observation mission also said that there are problems and irregularities. Therefore, the MSZP supports this proposal, so much so that we, specifically I, have signed it myself. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-13-246	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Ikotity, LMP Group.
u2017-11-13-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At the spring session, the bill of posters passed through the Parliament is a confession from Fidesz about the form in which Lajos Simicska financed the party until G-day. What didn't hurt for many years suddenly became painful in the spring. Fidesz realized that oligarchs finance parties; Fidesz, which was at least the only beneficiary of the corrupt system in which he cried wolf in the spring, was the only one in 2010-14. The reason for the profoundly cynical bill tabled by the members of the government is still this, and I quote:. In many cases it is suspected that billionaires and their related financial groups want to influence democratic electoral competition and distort the chances of the electoral candidates. This practice, in addition to endangering the purity of the election, also raises the risk of covert party financing and corruption. The aim of the proposal is to prevent unmasked attempts by billionaires to gain influence and to increase transparency, and to prevent some parties from becoming obligated to their electoral campaigns by businesses financed in a corrupt way. This is important because committed parties can repay corrupt funding through fraudulent, biased public funds. So far, the quote. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, In this spirit, I urge you to support the Commission's initiative to investigate the previous Fidesz practice. Thank you for the floor.
u2017-11-13-248	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman István Apáti, Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-13-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, the thing is, ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz is, as usual, trying to play or play the role of the opposition opposition. So if someone suddenly travels to this country and doesn't know who's in the government and who's in the opposition, they might think that Fidesz is an opposition party because it's attacking with a vehementism, because it's trying to make political profits, like he's in the opposition. The story here is that Jobbik can account for every single forint, the story is that we can legally fulfill all our obligations, but Fidesz can't. The election campaign in 2010 turned out to be a huge gap between the amounts confessed by Fidesz and reality. And the weird thing is that the former Fidesz member, Mr. Attorney General Péter Polt, when we were supposed to investigate the Fidesz case, the prosecutor's organization he ran said that the prosecution had no jurisdiction. In almost the same type of case, when Jobbik had to initiate proceedings against it, Peter Polt suddenly found the same authority. [[18.30]] He thought that, in this case, the most powerful opposition party, Jobbik, could open an investigation. Definitely partial, clearly completely biased. On this issue, we would like to make it clear whether Fidesz obtained two thirds in 2010 fairly, legally and legitimately. There is a strong suspicion that it is not, because if everything were okay with spending, if everything were okay with campaign funding, all the related accounts, then you could calmly say that you are going to face any kind of investigation, any kind of investigation, be it an examination procedure, because you have acted purely, fairly and legally. However, since they have a lot to hide, they try to avoid this responsibility on every pretext and perjury. This can be avoided for up to five months. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-13-250	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr György Szilágyi, as rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[György Szilágyi: Yes.]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2017-11-13-251	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would answer Imre Vas especially, because I thank the others for their support. Vas Imre has chosen the typical fidesz method, as always, that they try to put responsibility on someone else, always trying to accuse someone else of what they did, by the way. That's the way he chose to do it now. Instead of masculinely taking on a committee of inquiry, you don't, you cowardly run away from the committee of inquiry. We could line up the cases, what you guys are doing. You are constantly demanding data from the opposition. When we ask Gábor Kubatov to tell us how the campaign was financed, let's say, when the pensioners were called, he answers that he does not give an answer because he has no obligation to answer. When Gábor Kubatov jokes with Jobbik's office and mentions headquarters a day ago, they forget that Fidesz participated in Hungary's largest and most disgusting building doggy at the time. And now you're talking about banging posters, and you're saying that we're trying to draw attention from the posters. But no, we want to find out exactly who they are and what kind of money they use to destroy the posters. Well, we already know who's organizing the Jobbik's posters. Lajos Kósa and his team, who acknowledged that. The question is, what kind of money is paid to these people to destroy the posters of Jobbik across the country illegally, with the police and all other bodies assisting in this. You have put the police, the prosecutor's office, the State Audit Office and everyone under your political interests, because you believe that you can do anything in this country. We're going to the one-party dictatorship, but they're not going to achieve this goal, they're not going to lead this country back to the pre-1990 period, and they can't even lead it to the Rákosi era, which would be best for you. Jobbik will replace you in 2018. If you don't support us now to investigate this matter, then we will investigate it after 2018, and if we find one, then, believe me, you will be punished. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-13-252	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/17683 amendment of individual laws to improve the situation of pensioners. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, representing the LMP, within a five-minute timeframe.
u2017-11-13-253	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It tells all about a government's attitude to fallen disadvantaged groups of society, especially the elderly, who have worked fairly for 20-30-40 years to make it better for the younger age group, to gain more, to learn, to live better than their parents. A society that doesn't appreciate the elderly, I'm convinced that it's doomed because patterns are inherited. Today 2.6 million people in Hungary receive pensions or pension-like benefits. The supply of 1.2 million of them is below 100,000 forints. Many elderly people live alone, which cannot be covered by the often tens of thousands of forints of drug expenditure, the food charge. We see that the government does not deal with the daily financial problems of hundreds of thousands of pensioners, the growing poverty of old age. Instead of drawing up and introducing a national minimum programme for the elderly, the government forcefully pours money into stadiums, football, luxury investments and pockets of its own oligarchs. The other day, one of my fellow Members introduced a bill here in Parliament to allow football players to pay eho, and after certain items, such as ticketing, business tax. This is just outrageous! Not for them and the high-income people, but for those living below the minimum living standards and for a large group of pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, The government has refused to raise the minimum pension for the ninth year, and is attempting to spot the eyes of pensioners with one-off Elisabeth vouchers. They are talking about an inflation-following pension increase, which is more underdesigned, and this, we know, was the case again this year, the government gave a 1.6 percent increase, while already in January the Hungarian National Bank projected a 2.4 percent increase in inflation. The government has no idea that pensioners should also benefit from economic growth. Meanwhile, pensioners working in the public sector are forced by the government to choose between pension and salary. It refuses to review the possibility of early retirement. It is capable of deceiving disabled pensioners, because during the years of disability, work with contributions is not recognised as a period of service for the establishment of pension rights. This is simply unacceptable! What we see is that the government only deals with pensioners as long as they need the votes of pensioners. He tries to replace actions with campaign-like distribution and telephone campaigns that would bring lasting improvements for pensioners. The LMP has developed a proposal of five points, which we consider to be a minimum programme, a minimum that needs to be done to ensure that retirement years do not create extreme poverty and insecurity for people. Firstly, we consider it essential for the Fundamental Law to establish the constitutional protection of the pension as a property right. Fair raising of pensions is a key issue. Pensions should be increased on the basis of pensioner inflation, as the consumption of pensioners is higher in terms of pharmaceuticals, basic food and domestic energy. In addition, lower pensions should be increased. It is a shame that the ninth year of the old-age minimum pension is unchanged. We recommend raising the minimum retirement pension from HUF 28 500 to HUF 50,000. Also, the former system of early retirement, which was terminated by the government, should be reviewed in those jobs with a constant physical or psychological burden exceeding the average. The government promised me that nothing happened. We also know that there is a great shortage of labour in Hungary. For this reason, forced retirement, the ban on double benefits and the restrictive rules on people with disabilities should be abolished in the public sector. Last but not least, work under the payment of contributions during the disability pension years should be recognised as a period of service for the establishment of pension rights. It is unacceptable for the government to allow for years such unfairness to befall disabled pensioners who are already living in difficult circumstances. With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the inclusion of the LMP bill in a series of articles, so as to make it better for pensioners and older people.
u2017-11-13-254	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, Member of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-13-255	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik faction will support the application for a series of articles tomorrow. We agree with most of the proposal. There are parts of it that we imagine differently, but we agree with the direction. One of these is the issue of raising pensions. We have a plan to raise the pension. However, we do not imagine that the pension increase amount will be distributed equally among pensioners, but that it would be even more circumscribed, even more divided. We are thinking of raising the pay-as-you-go pension, but we agree with the situation that the current system needs to be changed. The current percentage increase is not effective, because in many cases pensioners with high pensions, or those with communist luxury pensions, get very high pension increases, while pensioners working their whole lives through physical work receive very little benefits. [[18.40]] As I said, we can agree with most of the draft measures, which is why we will support them. Otherwise, there is always criticism on the part of the government and the governing parties about the increase in the old-age pension minimum that it would change a lot of other expenses and a lot of other benefits. By the way, all you have to do here is what you should have done to end early retirements, that the system needs to be ciphered. Thus, the increase in the old-age pension minimum can be done in parallel to the increase in the amount for which the increase is justified, whether in the benefit or in social assistance the increase is entitled or lawful, keeping this amount of HUF 50 000, and in other benefits, even by changing the percentage, the system can also be fined, and the just system can be maintained in the same way. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-13-256	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Kovács, Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-13-257	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I think that we have already discussed it at the meeting of the People's Welfare Committee, and I think that what the Hungarian Government has undertaken with regard to pensioners, it considers that it keeps the value of pensions in real terms of inflation. Not only did he undertake this, but he also increased this by about 10 percent, which means that the pension increase between 2014-16 was 23.1 percent, whereas the increase in consumer prices increased by 11.8 percent, i.e. by 12.4 percent. I also think that the inflation rate announced by the Member is being adjusted, the government has already tabled the increase due in November, and not only the increase, but also the pension premium rule, because if the economy's performance is above 3 per cent, pensioners will also benefit from this economic growth in view of the social agreement and the responsibility of social groups among themselves. But let's look at the term minimum retirement. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, This has long been just a number, like a theoretical number that, like the combination of the basic salary for civil servants, is a 40-type allowance - as my fellow Member, Mr Sebestyén, said - it is indeed the basic calculation of several benefits, social, child protection and other benefits that I would say once again: 40 types of increase, budgetary distortion. So summa summarum: no one receives 28 500 HUF pension today, at least 39 700 HUF, who worked 20 years. So we're not going to support the proposal right now. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-258	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2017-11-13-259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For many years, the Hungarian Socialist Party has been submitting draft parliamentary resolutions or legislative proposals on this subject. Similar ones, more information, more narrow ones, more targeted ones. The point is that, thanks to you, nothing changes. So the solution to this issue will simply happen when there is a change of government in five months, and then it can be put in place. And why do you have to put it in its place? My fellow Members, you say that the minimum amount of the full retirement pension is just one figure, this is HUF 28 500. Look, it's not true, because the number of pensioners between 28 500 forints and 50,000 forints is 72 thousand, and another 350 thousand forints can still be found for people receiving pension-like care, who fall into this income band, between 28 500 forints and 50,000 forints. So it has to be changed, since it has been unchanged for nine years, and in your eight years, it has never been the case that it has been unchanged, it has lost a quarter of it, it has lost its value since then. It is also a shame that nearly half of pensioners have to live on pensions below HUF 100,000, but it is even more shameful that the number of pensioners living below the poverty line increased by 54 percent between 2010 and 2015. He's up 54 percent! So what I have to say is that there is something to be done, with regard to the pensioner consumer basket and the inventory of food, pharmaceutical and energy prices, with regard to the contribution ceiling, so that there are no such differences between the minimum pension and the multimillion HUF pensions. But also with regard to the fact that the conditions limiting work in favour of retirement should have been lifted by a long time ago. Therefore, there is room for such a series of proposals, and the Hungarian Socialist Party supports this. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-11-13-260	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, as rapporteur, if she wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2017-11-13-261	Yes, thank you very much, I'd like to answer. I would, of course, like to thank my fellow Members who have given their support to the package, and I would like to raise some objections to my fellow Members in Fidesz, in a small line. You said that Fidesz has undertaken to preserve the value of pensions. It is already hard that 28 500 HUF has not been raised in one year by inflation, and it is not true that this is only a calculation basis, because there are 71,000 people under 50 thousand forints. 71,000 people can't just be considered a calculation basis. This is simply unacceptable. I think it is a shame of the Fidesz government that the minimum pension in Hungary today is HUF 28 500. I don't know how they look into people's eyes, who have this much care to make a living out of it. You guys could try it once, for at least three months, to make a living, and I'm sure you couldn't make a living. I am very curious that tomorrow, the retired national parliament called all parties together to discuss the national minimum programme for the elderly. I will be very interested to know if your representative will be present at this meeting tomorrow, how they relate to the proposal of pensioners' representative organisations. I'll make sure they're not there. If you are there, I will publicly admit in Parliament that I am sorry, I was wrong, because you are thinking a little bit about improving the situation of pensioners. The other thing you are very proud of right now is boasting and propaganda that pensioners are now supplementing their pensions with inflation monitoring. It wasn't supposed to be now, in January, because in January, it was also known that inflation was not going to be 1.6 percent this year, but 2.4 percent, and you shouldn't be talking about backwards, because the pensioners' money has been used for free in the last few months! For them a few hundred forints or a few thousand forints [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It would have made a lot of difference.
u2017-11-13-262	Thank you very much, Congresswoman.
u2017-11-13-263	So I respectfully ask you to support the package of proposals.
u2017-11-13-264	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2011 CCIX on water utility services. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to Law No 1. The government referral is T/17996. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Zsolt Szabó, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[On the sign of Zsolt Szabó:]] Mr Secretary of State points out that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I ask if any of my fellow Members wish to speak on this agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[On the sign of Zsolt Szabó:]] Yes, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2017-11-13-265	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the valuable thoughts that have been made in this debate and I would ask my fellow Members to support the proposed amendment in the vote. Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi: That was very funny!]]
u2017-11-13-266	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[Zsolt Szabó: I did not mean this debate.]] Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the extraordinary settlement of claims for victims of the Czeglédy case and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow up. The H/17788 submitted by Gergely Gulyás, Zoltán Bóna, Csaba Hende, Gyula Budai and István Németh Szilárd, Fidesz, and István Hollik, KDNP, representatives. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. [[18.50]] Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I wonder if one of my fellow Members would like to speak. [[György Szilágyi: And the speaker of the TAB?]] Yeah, from the TAB. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented. If my fellow Member, Mr István Hollik, wishes to introduce you, I will give you the floor. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-267	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee has discussed the proposal for a resolution on the extraordinary settlement of damages for the victims of the Czeglédy case, and the committee has submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 23 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The reason for the lack of votes was that the representatives of the MSZP withdrew from the TAB meeting at the moment of the vote. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the final burden of the cost of the settlement of claims is for MSZP and DK to be included in an amendment tabled by two of our fellow Members with the intention of bringing the MSZP and DK to bear the ultimate burden, but with this intention neither the national nor the government agreed. In view of the fact that, although the amendment adopted by the Judicial Committee is morally eligible, it would probably not have passed the constitutional test. If, on the other hand, the constitutionality procedure had been initiated, the victims, pensioners and students might have been able to obtain their money later. Ladies and gentlemen, The adoption of the legislative committee's summary amendment made it as a priority to extend the scope of the decision proposal, in addition to the students who suffered the damage, to the pensioners who suffered the damage. At the committee meeting, it was said that Csaba Hende was contacted by several pensioners, because Csaba Czeglédy's company, Human Operator Zrt. and they didn't get paid either. Therefore, the aim of the distributors is to get their money as soon as possible to the victims of the Czeglédy case. With these changes, I ask you to support our proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-13-268	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if one of my fellow Members wishes to speak as rapporteur. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State points out that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the debate is taking place in a time frame. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2017-11-13-269	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, in the Legislative Committee, the Members present unanimously supported the proposal, and we, with our vote, will also support it in the vote before Parliament, because we believe that indeed, for those who have done the work, for those who deserve this payment, we should pay it. We also said our concerns in the Legislative Committee, where I could argue with President Hende that this should have been done a long time ago. On the basis of Jobbik's proposals, this should have been done months ago, but at that time, both in the municipality of Szombathely and on the basis of other proposals, you voted against it, and you prevented it. In Szombathely, they voted with the MSZP to ensure that almost nothing happened. Our municipal representative offered 1 million forints of his own budget for the compensation and that the others would be involved in this. They wanted to recall Csaba Czeglédy from his supervisory board membership, who, by the way, was a supervisory board member for one of the largest investments in Szombathely, even after his arrest for many months. Then they called him back, because Fidesz saw that it couldn't be held any longer, but when Jobbik suggested it, they held him in a great coalition, yes, with the MSZP in a great coalition. The picantria of the case was a little bit that when they voted on it in the general assembly in Szombathely, at that time in front of the town hall, Gyula Budai held a press conference, where he immediately demanded that Csaba Czeglédy be withdrawn from all these powers, and in there you voted with the MSZP. But we also said, and these would be very important questions that we didn't get an answer to, and we should be able to find out how many victims there are. This was fully said in such a pejorative sense as to why the opposition is curious about how many victims there are in this case. For several reasons. One of the reasons is that it does not matter in such a vote, however, what budget line we are talking about. There's numbers flying around here. Some people talk about tens of millions of forints, some talk about 100 million forints, some talk about a few hundred thousand forints. It doesn't matter in our opinion. In a responsible decision, you should also know how much this will cost, say, the budget, if any, how much it will cost to Hungarian tax-paying citizens who will pay for the check here. The reason why we still need to know how much this amount is, how many victims there are, is also important, since we also need to know why this situation has developed. You can see that this company - a question, and then the investigation will find out whether it's correct or wrong - has its accounts sealed. The reason why we have the possibility of non-payment is because the accounts have been blocked, or the company is already in charge of the investigation, I know, but it's very important, because it doesn't matter what amount we're talking about, which could have been paid. For if those news were true that it would be a few hundred thousand forints to be paid to the victims here, then either our representative of the local government in Szombathely, Péter Balassa, the local government representative of Jobbik, would have paid this compensation from his own budget months ago, and we would have helped the victims sooner. The other very important issue, which must not be overlooked in this case, is that it is a fire-fighting case for this one case. But the fact that it's not all right with student work, that it's not all right with this current system, even at the level of legal regulation, is for sure, because if it were okay, then this case couldn't have happened. Since this is the case, I would like to ask my fellow government Members that, while they are in government, there is much that could be done in these five months, let us look at the laws in force, the laws in force, and try to establish a comprehensive law that really protects students from being vulnerable if they are taking up work. Why is this question important anyway? Because these young people are about the first time in their lives to meet the world of work. It doesn't matter what experience they have, because if they gather such bad experiences, as they do now, that they can't get their money for months, even though they have worked for this money, it can stamp on their entire lives, and a factor of mistrust can play a role in their future lives, that their trust in employers can be shaken in their relationship to work. What is important is that we have a lot of information coming from a lot of places that employers abuse their situation a lot, and students don't even know what their rights would be, let's say, in the world of work. It wouldn't cost a penny if, from now on, we decided, for example, that students who take a job should have an education on what rights they have when they take a job, what they can do and what they can't do. [[19.00]] I also said at the Legislative Committee's meeting: it would be very important that if students go to work, they should not be used. This example is not entirely relevant, since they do not get paid for their work, but you know that high school students have to do voluntary work in a certain number of hours. I know of a school where high school students, girls during the holidays, when they were supposed to rest, but they were happy to do this volunteer work in a kindergarten. They went to this kindergarten, and they were there for five hours to help. When lunchtime came, of course, kindergarteners and kindergarten teachers sat down for lunch. And the girls were sitting there and they didn't get a bowl of soup. They didn't even ask if they wanted to, like, eat a bowl of soup. It seems like such a small thing, but believe me, these young people have it in them. Especially when they said - because they went the next day - that if they bring 400 forints with them and pay them in the morning, they can also have lunch. So the question is, when someone first meets the job, and he does everything in his best knowledge to do the work he has just done, how much respect he gets. 'Cause if you don't get respect for it, I'm gonna say it again, you can put that stamp on your next life. It also depends on such little things as how these students will react to this question later on, how they will react to the world of work. So I would like to ask you to look at this whole situation more comprehensively, and if we see gaps, things that need to be changed, I would ask you to make your proposals. We will be partners in everything, and we will support it so that we can protect as much as possible students who really want to work and who are involved in this system, because we believe that all means must be used to protect students from employers or to undermine their rights. So we stand by the students, which is why we will support this bill so that they can get the money they have worked for months ago as soon as possible. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-13-270	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Hollik, KDNP Group.
u2017-11-13-271	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It is respectable and we thank you for the support of opposition parties for this important proposal for a resolution. Allow only a few quick reflections on what my colleague György Szilágyi said. He said it was unclear how many victims there were. We already know that there's a lawyer with over 200 assignments to this day. So all we know is there's at least so many victims, but there's supposed to be more than that, 200 commissioners. We also know that there are over a dozen pensioners who have not been paid. So, overall, we know that there are at least 210 victims who need to be compensated. Therefore, the argument made by the socialists at previous Commission hearings or debates that there are only a few people here is both outrageous and unsatisfying. The other thing is that it's obviously a legitimate question as to why that company, Csaba Czeglédy's company, was shut down and whether the students could pay their wages. The thing is, he was acting under the NAV law here, and he couldn't have done anything else. The company received several payment requests, did not pay, after which the NAV has to block the account, there is no way to deviate from it, and the authorities acted according to the law. I can confirm that we are also open to examining the legal environment, the legal environment for student cooperatives, and we are also open to any systemic problem, or there is a systemic problem that could cause, say, the occurrence of such cases. By the way, we have examined this for ourselves, and we have seen that there is no such systemic problem. Perhaps this can be confirmed by the fact that such a case, in which students would have been injured in such a crowd, has not so far been in the history of student associations. That is why I can say that this is a fundamentally specific matter, not a legislative problem. However, we are, of course, open on our part if anyone has such a suggestion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-272	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP Group.
u2017-11-13-273	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't mean to say anything, but Mr Hollik's comment did, however, encourage me to press a button to indicate my intention to comment. You know, Mr President, with regard to the proposal that you have put forward for political witch-hunt, we should note that, if we had already entered into very, very legal and procedural law here, it would have been a very good solution for you to say that, in this particular case, I would like to ask for or initiate, and that, by the way, we have the legislative formula that the amount in question for which compensation is claimed would have been lifted then, and that could have been done otherwise. The fact that you are capable of very creative legislation, we have seen and experienced it several times, could have been a solution. You didn't choose this path, you chose a completely different path. If Csaba Czeglédy, let's just say guilty, then of course he will have the consequences of this, but you will now determine in advance that he is otherwise guilty, and you think that this is the way the state should stand. Of course, we do not question it, and we also say that neither the students nor the pensioners who may be affected can have a disadvantage, that is to say, of course, they will have to be settled for what is left behind, but the path that you have chosen is, in our view, very, very motivated politically. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-13-274	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group has applied for a speech; you have 21 seconds, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-275	Thank you very much. István Hollik says it's been reviewed, and there's no systemic problem. Yes, there is, Congressman, because this case is at the moment. If there were no systemic problem, this would not be the case, so this case has emerged in the current legislative context. We should pull off the consequences, see what led to this, and I'm sure we need to change what made this case possible. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-13-276	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2017-11-13-277	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Prejudice what they're doing. They make statements and present them in a draft parliamentary resolution. They judge - it's none of your business, no. It's for the authorities to judge. My fellow Member Hollik, read the parliamentary resolution written by himself. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew intervenes.]] Yeah, in case you haven't done it before. You know, the presumption of innocence deserves everyone, even under the Fundamental Law, according to Article 28. As far as I know, a court decision hasn't been reached yet. What if it's not some kind of influence or an urge to influence what you're doing to the court? We should talk about what is going on here, in the House walls, while we are looking into this topic, what is the situation, what is the case with the cases controlled by Flórian Farkas, 1600 million HUF. I said 1600 million forints! What about Voldemort, what about the case of ETUS, the case of the Quaestor victims? You know, you should be able to link these questions to a group, and then I'll tell you that you can talk about it rationally, but so what you're doing is prejudication. [[19.10]] In fact, you want to pass judgment. The truth is not based on your judgment, no. Obviously, it should be based on investigative procedures and judicial decisions, where appropriate. And it wouldn't be a problem if they at least took their own Fundamental Law into account. My last sentence is that it appears that you are prejudicing, that you are trying to judge, that you have practically not created the possibility that if there is an unpaid obligation, then practically no account will be blocked, or that the blocked account will be released, and the possibility of creating an opportunity to ensure that these needs are met at the expense of resources. So, the fundamental problem is that they prejudicate and judge, and that is not the competence of the Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-13-278	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman István Hollik. I'm asking you, as a pointer, so as a closing point, or as a...
u2017-11-13-279	No, it's normal.
u2017-11-13-280	Normal. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-281	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Two brief remarks again. On the one hand, I think that it is a technical question whether we will deduct it from the blocked account or whether we will include it in the proposal for a resolution, whether we will deduct it or otherwise the state will stand. But I think that if we ask anyone who they trust more, a company that is involved in the suspicion of VAT fraud of HUF 3 billion and receives its compensation from his blocked account, or if the state is able to make up for it, I think it's perfectly reasonable what we wrote in the resolution proposal, that in this case we chose not a company charged with VAT fraud, but the state as the one who will compensate. And I can tell my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, that it is up to the court to judge. If you read this resolution proposal, you will find two things in it. It means your representative operated a company that otherwise damaged students and pensioners. There is one thing we can be sure of: they were misdemeanors in this matter, and they must be compensated. That is what is included in this proposal for a decision, and there is no prejudition in this. The other part of the proposal is to examine whether this VAT fraud case is linked in any way to the party financing of MSZP and DK. There's no prejudition in this. If you think it's in there, then it's due to a text understanding problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-282	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government at this stage of the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-13-283	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I just want to clarify one thing. Legally, it doesn't matter what kind of solution we choose. Because there is a socialist abuse, there is no need to amend the tax procedure law separately, but to deal with this situation with a unique solution. The other is that if they were paid out of the amount in the company's account - if there were enough money on it at all - these victims would practically be eliminated. However, with this solution, the claim is granted to the paying State, so there is still the possibility that those who have caused damage may be enforced against them. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2017-11-13-284	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP Group.
u2017-11-13-285	Thank you, Mr. President. I am glad that Congressman Hollik did not want to say this as a closing point, because then, of course, there is a way to respond substantially to what he has said. You said you wanted to compensate the victims of the Czeglédy case or at least settle your claims. My fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, mentioned that otherwise there are very, very many victims of the ETUS, there are very, very many victims of the broker scandals, there are very, very many victims, there could be a long list of which cases, the Farkas Flórian Roma employment cases, but we could also mention the Lord Voldemort, who is also sitting in your ranks. So, in their case too, there are tens of thousands of people who, unfortunately, appear injured in these cases. Interestingly, we have noticed that in this case neither Fidesz nor the very creative Fidesz legislative machine - your fellow Member Vas Imre could talk about and tell you how creative legislative methods are being invented. So, in this case, in an interesting way, you do not want to rush to help the victims, which is why we said so, and that is why we claimed that in this case we do believe that there is political motivation. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-13-286	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2017-11-13-287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Claim, prejudication, judgment. I just want to confirm with one sentence. Pál Völner says literally: socialist-based abuse. [[Dr. Pál Völner: I'll do it!]] What's that if it's not a statement? What if it's not judgment? [[Dr. Pál Völner: Not judgment, statement!]] No, no, Paul Völner, read the minutes, and then we can talk about it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-13-288	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask whether there is a need for further speeches from my fellow Members. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask Mr István Hollik if he wishes to speak as a closing point. [[For signal:]] The Member indicates that he does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2013 LXXXVII on the transparency of the campaign costs of the election of Members of Parliament follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Gulyás Gergely and Róbert Répássy, Fidesz, representatives submitted T/18003. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-11-13-289	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is the House Rules 46. LXXXVII of 2013 on the transparency of the campaign costs of the election of Members of Parliament. T/18003. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be adopted by the committee in accordance with Article 46 of the Rules of Procedure. By 22 votes in favour, with 8 abstentions. In the case of subsidies to parties, there is no threshold of seriousness for which the party is obliged to repay the State aid in the event of failure to reach it, therefore, given the experience of the 2014 election and the proposal of the President of the State Audit Office and the Speaker of Parliament, a legislative amendment initiative has been submitted in order to prevent the creation of so-called business parties or, if it cannot be fully prevented, to have a strict responsibility for State aid. The proposal submitted established a limit of 0.5 per cent of the votes cast on the party list in respect of the parties. In practice, the summarised amendment contains a proposal for an amendment to the Judicial Committee closing a detailed debate. If the party does not reach the required aid limit of 1 per cent, the organisation must repay the State aid. In the event of failure to do so, it is not the members of the governing body, but the senior officials of the party, who are liable to repay the original proposal. This amendment was necessary because the category of the party's governing body could lead to too broad legal uncertainty and, to this end, it is justified to amend it to a senior official in accordance with Article XXXIII of 1989 on the Civil Code and the functioning and management of the parties. the provisions of the law. The committee, as I have just indicated, has increased the limit of repayment to 1 per cent instead of 0.5 per cent. [[19.20]] By the way, this proposal was originally proposed by Mr Gergely Bárándy as a Commission amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, the proposal serves the cleanliness of choice and responsible management of public funds. In view of this, I would like to ask for the support of my fellow Members. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-13-290	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speech by the author. I'll ask the authors if anyone wants to speak. [[For signal:]] The Member indicates that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. I'll ask if the Secretary of State would like to speak on behalf of the government. [[On the signal of Nándor Csepreghy:]] He says he doesn't want to. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I ask my fellow Members if they wish to take this opportunity. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group.
u2017-11-13-291	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As I said in my keynote speech, this electoral law, including, of course, other legislation relating to it, procedural law, campaign finance law, is indeed bleeding from a thousand wounds, as I said at the time. For this reason, today the MSZP Group, with several other opposition representatives, has put a comprehensive amendment proposal on the table, which would rewrite a number of provisions in these legislations. We're sorry Fidesz didn't put that on the agenda at today's Justice Committee meeting. We hope that Parliament will do so later. This proposal was also tabled with the agreement of eight parties. I am bringing this up as an actuality and at this stage of the debate because one of the elements of this proposal is what we are debating here in this House. Indeed, Fidesz's original proposal included half the percentage. In order to comply with this proposal tabled by the eight parties, we have put forward a proposal for an amendment by its representatives, which I have tabled to increase this half-percent to one percent. There was also a debate at the Committees' meeting as to whether it was fortunate to draft senior officials instead of governing bodies. I think that the parties of government understood these concerns, but we understand, of course, what the parties of government have said, and we agree that it is a much more exact solution and more fitting to the legal system, which was included in the amendment proposal. That is why, as the governing parties support our amendment, and we agree with the amendment tabled by the governing parties, the MSZP faction will support this motion in the vote. I would also like to say that Members of Parliament have an enormous responsibility for the proper administration of public money by the state. We have seen that these fake parties have, in the last four years, taken up more than HUF 3.5 billion as campaign support in the campaign - virtually without real social support - and, of course, they didn't have to account for it, they didn't pay it back, and to the extent they had to account for it, many even had a problem with it. I therefore believe that any faction that has the heart of public money must support this proposal. First of all, not because anyone would hope for political gain, but simply because responsible thinking about public funds is the duty of all political parties, be they opposition, be they pro-government. We will therefore vote in favour of this proposal in the light of this duty, and I ask my fellow Members, not only on the government side, but also on the opposition side, to do the same. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2017-11-13-292	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2017-11-13-293	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the one hand, I would like to confirm and, on the other, add to what my fellow Member Gergely Bárándy has to say. In addition to this change, a general change would be needed for what appeared in the thinking of the Common Country Movement. It's not random that we suggested this. This is an element of this story, a necessary element, but not a sufficient element. If the Parliament wants to ensure the use of public funds in an honest manner, it is inevitable that it should take this step, because we can give an example back to 14 where, say, nearly 200 million forints of public money were squandered for 2 thousand votes, and don't be angry about it, but you are to blame there, within the benches of the government side. You created this situation and even seemed to act in your best interests at the time. Technically, public money, the use of public money, was damaged. The responsibility for this cannot be washed off themselves, even if this change is now formulated. It is essential to take action in order to put an end to business parties or to curb the emergence of business parties. That is why my fellow Member Gergely Bárándy said that the Hungarian Socialist Party will give its support to this draft law tomorrow, but I would like to emphasise once again that this is far from enough to create a fair, fair and proportionate electoral system. There is much more to be done to this end. Mr. President. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-13-294	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP Group.
u2017-11-13-295	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm really going to be very short. As my fellow Member, Mr Gúr, we can, in itself, express very serious concerns about the whole electoral system, and we have done this and have spoken about it several times. But we think that if there are elements that can make this better, it must be supported by our faction. And if you have already seen on the government side that, indeed, in relation to the business parties or the fake parties, as they were named, in the 2014 elections it was one of the mockery of democracy, as they were involved, what funds were allocated to this, and then practically even damaged public finances. If we can finally eliminate this now, I think this is a very forward-looking proposal. Therefore, as mentioned by my fellow Members, we will support it. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-13-296	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask my fellow Member, Mr Répássy, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-297	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to thank you briefly for your support. Of course, we have different views on the electoral system and the electoral system as a whole, but this proposal was not intended to change the current electoral system. That's another initiative. It will probably be up to the Parliament to decide on the inclusion of it in the series. Only the subject of the current proposal is the amendment of the 2013 law on campaign financing, so it is not the election law that needs to be amended, nor the electoral law that includes these rules or not the electoral law, but we propose to include these new rules in a separate campaign funding law. Thank you again for your support.
u2017-11-13-298	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the presentation of the Wacław Fełczak Foundation and the final amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/17784. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-11-13-299	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is the House Rules 46. T/177784 on the Wacław Fełczak Foundation. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be adopted by the committee in accordance with Article 46 of the Rules of Procedure. It was unanimously supported by 23 votes on the basis of Article 2 of the Rules of Procedure. [[19.30]] Professor Wacław Fełczak was born in 1916 and died in 1993. Polish historian, researcher of Hungarian-Polish relations, a victim of the idea of friendship between the two peoples and central European cooperation, was one of the leading figures of anti-Nacism and communism opposition in Poland. Since then, Wacław Fełczak has been the symbolic personality of the historic power of Hungarian-Polish friendship, its anti-Nacism and anti-Communism traditions, its democratic commitment, its Central European significance and its pan-European sense of responsibility. The aim of the law is to achieve the political will to broaden the social base of Hungarian-Polish friendship by establishing the legal framework necessary for the establishment of the Wacław Fełczak Foundation. The law alone does not result in the foundation being established, it is provided by the government as its founder. The summarised amendment includes a proposal by the Judicial Committee to conclude a detailed debate, which includes technical, linguistic and codification corrections. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, the proposal serves to strengthen and deepen Polish-Hungarian friendship. In view of this noble friendship, I ask for the kind support of my fellow Members. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-300	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Tamás Schanda, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the authors at this stage of the debate. [[Tamás János Schanda: Not now.]] Mr Secretary of State points out that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény.
u2017-11-13-301	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to be very brief here, too. The Hungarian Socialist Party fundamentally supports the strengthening of relations between Hungary and Poland. I would not like to repeat the words of Mr Répássy, who also spoke in detail about Wacław Fełczak. What strengthens Hungarian and Polish cultural and public approach and cooperation will always receive support from us. We believe that this proposal promotes and contributes to the objective I have just mentioned, so we are in any case in favour of it. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-13-302	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate on behalf of the rapporteurs. [[On the sign of Tamás János Schanda:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-13-303	Thank you very much for your comments and comments. We are pleased that this proposal has such broad support, and I continue to ask that the bill be supported in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-304	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the amendment of Law I of 2014 on sport follows a debate. T/18005 submitted by representatives of Gergely Tapolczai and Zsolt Nyitrai Fidesz. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I'm going to ask if there's anyone who wants to speak on behalf of the authors. [[Dr. Gergely Tapolczai reporting.]] Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Tapolczai, Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-13-305	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The essence of the proposal submitted to the Sports Act is to address the situation of disabled athletes who obtained a medal before 2012 and filed their claim after 2012, their application for an Olympic allowance, so that they can qualify for the Olympic allowance. Both Jobbik and the MSZP supported this proposal during the general debate. There was no debate during the in-depth debate. I trust that tomorrow all parties will unanimously support this amendment proposal. Thank you in advance.
u2017-11-13-306	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask whether, on behalf of the Government, Mrs State Secretary wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[Dr. Savolt-Szabó Tünde:]] Yes, you have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2017-11-13-307	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear House, I am very pleased that this proposal is supported by the parties. T/18005. Bill No. 1 seeks to clarify the provisions of Law No. I of 2004 on sport concerning Olympic benefits. In the last 20 years, the rules on Olympic benefits have been amended several times, but the changes have all served the same purpose: to express the recognition and appreciation of athletes who achieved outstanding sports results. Besides Olympic champions, medalists and medal coaches are now entitled to an allowance. There has also been an increase in the number of sports events that qualify for Olympic benefits, such as the paralympics and the deaf-lymphia, and the amount of the allowance is set in line with the number of gold coins. The Hungarian national team who has won the first, second or third place in the summer or winter Olympic Games, chess Olympic Games or in the Paralympic or Deaf Olympics since 1984 is entitled to an Olympic allowance until the end of their life. An institution of undeservation for the Olympic allowance has also been introduced, resulting in the absence of an Olympic allowance for those who have a criminal record or are subject to a trial. The Parliament last amended the conditions for entitlement to annuity in 2011. Among other things, sports professional requirements and conditions have been established that must be enforced in respect of all sports outcomes qualifying for annuity. Such a condition is that a medal is awarded to an allowance only if the event has been held in a qualifying competition system or if at least eight nations have started in the event. However, the introduction of these uniform provisions may have resulted in some athletes qualifying for an Olympic allowance at the same event or even in the same event, while others have not, depending on when they were 35 years of age qualifying for annuity. The application of this amendment to the Sports Act is clarified by the present motion of the Members to apply it in respect of events which took place after the entry into force of the amendment. It is important to point out that the previously defined sports conditions and requirements remain justified and there is no change in them. All of these legal rules allow about 900 people to receive Olympic benefits today under the title of athletes, widows or coaches, which benefits and related tasks are provided by the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources for Sports. Annuities corresponding to or proportional to the average salary of wage and salary earners help athletes to overcome potential difficulties that may result from their dedication to sport in their youth. Dear Parliament, The motion by the Members, which I also thank the Members, proposes only a fair application of these conditions and requirements. According to this, the Hungarian Government supports T/18005. I call on the participants in this House to support it in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[19.40]]
u2017-11-13-308	Dear Parliament, I thank the Secretary of State, Mr Sávolt-Szabó Tünde, who expressed his position on behalf of the government. Dear Parliament, Since the designated Committee on Culture has not presented a rapporteur, it is now up to its representatives to address the time frame. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2017-11-13-309	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to applications for Olympic benefits, there are those who are in fact disadvantaged by the laws in force today. I am naturally thinking of medalists acquired before 2012. As my colleague Gergely Tapolczai said, this must be changed, and the background conditions must be established so that these so-called grievances and disadvantages do not occur. I agree, I support. What I would like to draw attention to is, in fact, that there is no difference between performances in terms of the Olympians and paralympics in relation to my system of values. There is no difference, each outstanding and each unique performance. In this sense, what I want to achieve is that the unworthy situation will be eliminated, that there will be discrimination on account of disability in any respect, whether in relation to paralympics or in respect of deaflimpics. In this unworthy situation, I think it is important to ensure the same benefit, or to set aside for it, and to be something that does not appear specifically in this draft law, since it is the issue of the Olympics' Olympics' allowance that will be clarified, but I would also like to remember that, once this issue has been resolved, the former ideas will not be fulfilled. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-11-13-310	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-13-311	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has always believed that those who have gained the glory of this country with their achievements and have enjoyed each one of us in a major world competition should be valued and given the credit they deserve financially. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has already supported any change of law and legislation that has made it possible to pay the Olympic annuity as widely as possible. We believe that the Olympic allowance should do so to those who deserve it. This clarification, which has been submitted to Parliament at the moment, is justified, so the Movement for Jobbik Hungary will, of course, support the amendment in the final vote tomorrow. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-13-312	Thank you very much, Congressman. I wonder if any of my fellow Members would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask the Member if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Before I give the floor to the congressman, I'd like to ask the signer, please, to put on your microphone, because she's very disturbed by the radio transmission. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-13-313	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the supporting contributions from Jobbik and the MSZP. I am very pleased that my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, has said that all athletes, whether they are sound or disabled, have the same value and value. I do not want to point back to the past, but I must mention that in 2009, after the deafly lympics, medal-winning athletes were received by the then competent minister. I'm sorry to put it this way, but you spotted the athletes' eyes with a bag with a balloon comb in it. Then there was a very big scandal, and deaf athletes went to court for it, and they won this lawsuit, by the way. Another issue is that after the 2010 government change, our party, our government, paid them the rightful reward. That's how it was, but it's an old case. It is good that my fellow Members know what I agree with among my fellow Members' thoughts. Thank you once again for your support, for your comments, and also for tomorrow's vote, I very much hope that this support will be united. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-13-314	I would like to thank Mr Gergely Tapolczai very much as rapporteur. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, There is a debate on the Commission's reports on the amendment of individual laws necessary for the greater protection of children and the summarised amendment proposal. Submitted by Róbert Répássy, István Németh Szilárd, Gabriella Selmeczi and László Horváth, Fidesz, representatives, T/16168. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee. I give the floor to Mr László Horváth, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-11-13-315	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 9 November 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/16168 amendment of certain laws necessary for the greater protection of children. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. On the basis of Article 31 of the Treaty, I can say that, with an exemplary consensus, he unanimously supported it by 31 votes in favour. I would like to draw your attention to our fellow Member Vas Imre's agreed intention to amend it, which contains a codification amendment compared to the original text of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, As I have already said in the general debate, we do not need to discuss the proposal for a long time, since its text is short, clear and fully in line with the policy that Fidesz-KDNP is pursuing to protect children and clearly expresses our consistent position that any abuse of children is unacceptable, whether it is psychological or physical violence. And if necessary and justified, there is room for increased criminal protection and rigour. Sexual violence against children is, in a moral sense, the most serious and despicable crime. It is particularly distressing and intolerable, and it is severely punishable if a child becomes a victim of sexual violence in a place where he should be protected and cared for. It is particularly distressing and intolerable for a child to become a victim of a person who has sworn to pursue his vocation for the benefit of the child. A man like that can't get another chance. There's no excuse here, no discretion. It must be withdrawn, so to speak, if it has become unworthy of trust, and in addition to the punishment it deserves, it must be ensured that it is no longer a danger to any child, nor can it find any other child's sacrifice. It should be prohibited to engage in any occupation, activity in which the education, supervision, care, treatment of children could be carried out, or to have other power or influence relations with children. Since I believe that we agree on these matters, we have a unanimous and strict position, I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal in the final vote as well. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[19.50]]
u2017-11-13-316	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Répássy, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to answer or speak. [[For signal:]] The Member points out that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak on behalf of the Government. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. The members' speeches will follow. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2017-11-13-317	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In order to improve the protection of children, there is no situation in my view where no more can be done. It is simply life that brings backhanded things that highlight the need to make changes because, how and with a multitude of measures. There is no situation, therefore, that is firmly engraved in stone, but that we must strive to take the necessary steps against all torsos. The child is the most vulnerable, the most defenseless in all aspects, especially if he lives his daily life in circumstances where he is virtually surrounded not only by the parenting environment, but, where appropriate, within the framework of a children's home, he is entrusted to others within the framework of an institution, not primarily by the love of the family. Unfortunately, in the past year, we have faced many, but I could also say, examples where virtually all common sense-surpassing events have occurred or have been faced. I fully agree with my fellow Member Horváth's idea that everyone who acts against defenceless, vulnerable children will act against them, take advantage of their vulnerability, and act hard against them in a sense that does not only periodically, but never, ever allow them to come near children at any time, to deal with children. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-13-318	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, Member of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-13-319	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. As in the general debate, I can say here that our group will support this proposal. However, I would like to make a few amendments. One of the amendments that I have tabled would not give rise to judicial consideration in the event of a criminal offence by endangering a minor. Of course, I know that criticism always does, and the answer is that judicial independence must be maintained, but I say this in my opinion by consulting judges before it, because it is not a crime of endangering minors, it is a crime, which is a more serious step. So it's not exactly the same category, but it's just as serious as it is sexual abuse against minors, so it's possible to ignore appreciation here too. The judges are of the opinion that this would be even easier for them, and my personal professional opinion is that the possibility of judicial consideration could also be waived here. I would also like to say a few words about the other amendment tabled by the Members of the LMP, because I think it is entirely relevant and justified, professionally speaking. This is about making sure that anyone who commits such a crime is not allowed to work in an institution that supplies disabled people or elderly people after that. This also has simple professional reasons, even psychological reasons, because we know very well who they are and what personality disorder people are suffering from who commit sexual crimes. Here, in general, one of the motivating forces is that they want to rule over whom they are committing this act, whether they are minors or adults. They belong to the category that we cannot afford the luxury of working in a position where they can be vulnerable. And these vulnerable people could be people with disabilities. We have also heard many times about sexual abuse in the institutions of disabled people, or even elderly people who, as a result of their physical condition, are very often unable to defend and resist. In many cases, however, we should not allow this because, in many cases, these institutions retain these acts latently, especially in institutions providing care for people with disabilities or nursing care, in many cases the caregiver is physically unable to indicate the harm he has suffered, the abuse he has suffered, either to the recipient's representative, to any other forum, or even to the institution's management that such abuses have occurred to him. There is therefore a legitimate claim, and the amendment is justified, that those who have committed such crimes should be excluded from the possibility of doing such jobs, and I hope that the Members who have submitted will ask for a separate vote, and that we will have the opportunity to decide on them separately tomorrow. I trust the wisdom of the majority to accept these motions. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-13-320	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members whether they still wish to speak at the expense of the remaining timeframe. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Répássy, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-11-13-321	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I asked for the floor, and I would like to respond to what has been said here, and, of course, we have carefully considered the validity of these amendments. First of all, I would like to say that the endangerment of a minor in connection with a crime has come to the conclusion that the judges would agree with such an amendment, which Jobbik has tabled. What I can tell you is that judges have the opportunity, and they can do it now, to prohibit a person from exercising a profession for a longer period, even for an indefinite period of time, or from such an addiction, from a situation in which they are placed in a position of power. Because the point of our proposal is to make it mandatory to prohibit it, but that does not rule out the fact that the judge, in his discretion, prohibits the perpetrator from any similar act. If, therefore, this initiative came from a judge, forgive me, my fellow Member, but I question the seriousness of this, because the judges themselves are responsible for the need to intervene in the legislative process, and the legislature must state that this sanction must be applied here, regardless of judicial judgement. Therefore, if judges believe that this long or indefinite ban is justified, they will do so. The other point is that they cannot employ the sentenced person only in institutions where they deal with children, they care for children, but also in adult institutions, for example; I think that this is also achieved by prohibiting a person from his occupation or from engaging in activities in which he may be related to children, and that this is the case in his moral certificate for the rest of his life, or at least for as long as a moral certificate is required, a moral certificate is required to be submitted for employment. So this post will be on for a long time, and I am curious about the employer who would, say, employ someone in a social home or nursing home who was banned from teaching, banned from his activities in child care. Obviously, they'll ask what this crime is, why it was banned. Once again, the significance of this whole measure is that it will remain in the moral certificate throughout this record, and no one will receive a so-called clean moral certificate. From now on, if you want to be in a job, I note that not only do you want to be in a job as a teacher, but also in any job, then the moral certificate will not be entirely suitable for him to be employed, or at least the employer will clarify the type of crime that has been prohibited. [[20.00]] So, my fellow Members, of course, your proposal is formally - because this has been decided by the Justice Committee - expansive, I am sorry, it is not the proposal that we will be voting on, but there has also been other proposals that are expansive, so a number of amendments have been made here that cannot be included in the original bill that we have tabled, because it is not the Btk. stays within a clear framework, but goes beyond that, and we are happy to think about that - and I am pleased that you are helping us think, so we are not saying that we have done everything we can to protect children more. But since this proposal is taking another step towards greater protection for children, for the sake of criminal protection, I ask the House as a whole to vote tomorrow. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-322	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CIX on the Hungarian Academy of Arts follows. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The government referral is T/17999. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask you, on behalf of the authors, if Mr Nándor Csepreghy wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-11-13-323	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, With regard to the importance of construction, I think that Parliament and the government can express their commitment in several ways, on the one hand, by creating rules that give room to the expansion of construction, building art, in the hope that this generation will be able to add substance and lasting to the unappreciated merits of the predecessors. The aim of the legislative proposal currently under discussion, which seems to have the support of the majority of Parliament, shows that not only the importance of construction is recognised by the Hungarian Parliament, but also the importance of the research and analysis of heritage conservation in the framework of the Hungarian Academy of Arts. The aim of this bill, which you may already know, is to enable the Hungarian Academy of Arts to assist in the future in the field of cultural heritage conservation expert and scientific work by maintaining the scientific collection of heritage conservation, and this essentially complements the work already carried out in connection with the collection of the Architectural Museum. Following the adoption of this proposal, the Hungarian Academy of Arts will become a trustee and maintainer in this respect - I think that proving the public interest here does not require much explanation - and we will give you the opportunity not only to contribute to the maintenance and expansion of the heritage of Hungarian architecture, but also to be able to do so in a unified, orderly framework if it requires the collection of intellectual ammunition. The position of the government and, once again, I would like to recall the debates that have been held so far, the opposition believes that there is no better framework than what the Hungarian Academy of Arts can offer. In this spirit, the government calls on Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-13-324	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that you will have 7 minutes and 30 seconds to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity.
u2017-11-13-325	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In the event of LMP's accession to the government, it would pursue a cultural policy which considers it its task to preserve cultural heritage, to strengthen the diversity of culture and the institutional system of cultural dialogue, to promote intellectual achievements, to ensure freedom of conscience, speech and thought. The existence and functioning of the Hungarian Academy of Arts are not conducive to dialogue between cultural actors, on the contrary: the Hungarian Academy of Arts bears the heavy burden of prejudices and unilaterality that overshadowed its founding. Its excessive influence, its privileged position should be eliminated and the possibility of its transformation and termination should be examined with the involvement of stakeholders. MMA is not needed in its current form. MMA is the product of the government policy logic of the last 30 years. In the last 30 years, cart camps on the right and left have been constantly tense in cultural policy, and current governments have always supported their own privileged actors. The current Fidesz example of this particular process is the establishment of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, the promotion of the purchase and operation of a luxury chair for billions of years. The MMA is gaining weight like a little ball, constantly putting its hands on new areas. Perhaps after two thirds of the decisive influence of the National Cultural Fund, together with the government, we thought that the appetite of the baby ball would be reduced, but that is not the case. A new task for the public body is now defined: in the future, the MMA will carry out tasks related to the management, enhancement, publication of the scientific collection of cultural heritage conservation, and the operation of its publicly available research service. Of course, the details will also be regulated here by a government decree. The problem with this is that heritage protection, conservation of monuments are public tasks, not public tasks. None of this task should be given to the MMA. However, the concrete implementation itself is not clear, as according to the proposal, it would carry out this task in the future through the Hungarian Museum of Architecture and the Center for the Conservation of Monuments. If we go further, it is a particularly sensitive area, as the scientific collections of cultural heritage conservation are being combined with the Hungarian Museum of Architecture. We are talking about two different collection units with different history, collection and content. In this situation, they should certainly be treated separately and not combined in such uncertain circumstances. Dear House, Millions of people in Hungary do not have access to essential cultural goods. The aim of the LMP is to ensure access to cultural values for all, and to create cultural value for all. Culture is an important tool for social inclusion, the fourth pillar of sustainability. It is extremely sad that instead of supporting millions of people's access to culture, the government is making several hundred billion forints of museum quarters of the Városliget, moving Viktor Orbán to the Castle, or supporting the billions of suspicious real estate purchases and the operation of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, which seriously divides Hungarian artistic life. The privileges of the Hungarian Academy of Arts must be abolished, not given new tasks. The amendment will not be supported by the LMP.
u2017-11-13-326	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to speak under the item on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Minister of State, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2017-11-13-327	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. I asked for the floor once again because I would not like to repeat what was already said in the introduction, but since LMP did not participate in the opening debate or in the committee stage, not only in the debate but also in the meeting itself, where it could have been familiar with the proposal, and it was not possible to devote sufficient time to the concrete knowledge of the proposal, let me remind you that the Hungarian Academy of Arts does not take any government decision or take it into account, perhaps by mistake, the fact that it is neither a licensing authority nor an administrative body acting on heritage protection. So this proposal is about - as Congressman is able to read about it before tomorrow's vote, and I hope that his professional commitment will move him to do so - so that the Hungarian Academy of Arts, like the Museum of Architecture, can handle the collection of historical and heritage conservation documents that were previously created, where appropriate, before the regime change, between the two world wars or before the World War, as a quasi museum and research site. This does not mean any authority licensing powers or tasks in the area of heritage protection, which the Government wants and will handle within the Prime Minister's Office within the Deputy State Secretary for Heritage Protection. [[20.10]] Therefore, the current proposal only concerns the government's request for the mandate of the National Assembly that the Hungarian Academy of Arts be able to perform these research and museum-related tasks in full. As no further proposals have been received from either the LMP or other parliamentary parties in this respect, I hope that the Member of the Parliament, representing his current contribution, has been clarified in this respect and I hope that the LMP will also be persuaded to support this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-328	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2010 LXXV on simplified employment follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/18009 submitted by the representatives of Balázs Győrffy, István Jakab, László Vécsey, Fidesz. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. You have the floor, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey.
u2017-11-13-329	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 9 November 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2010 LXXV on simplified employment. T/18009. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report were adopted by the Committee by 27 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions, on the basis of the 10/2014 Parliamentary Decision on certain house rules. As regards the amendment, I would like to note that the Commission's proposal to close the detailed debate of the Committee on Agriculture, supported by the Legislative Committee, contains codification clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen, As you know, the situation has been that a large proportion of agricultural seasonal workers have been subject to tax returns and taxes, which they have learned only subsequently through a request from the NAV. The proposal we are discussing now raises the tax-free daily income from simplified employment from the current HUF 5870 to HUF 7631 this year, to HUF 8255 next year and to increase the minimum wage in the following years. In view of the fact that we are trying to address the sector's difficulties with labour shortages with this proposal, please continue to support the proposal with your vote in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-330	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask you if you wish to speak again, Congressman. [[László Vécsey says no.]] Congressman indicates that he does not wish to take this opportunity now. Dear Parliament, I will ask if the Government wishes to speak on behalf of the Secretary of State at this stage of the debate. [[András Tállai says no.]] Mr. Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. The speeches will now take place in the time frame available. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2017-11-13-331	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Three simple thoughts. Simplifying employment itself may also benefit the employer, as it is accompanied by a reduction in labour costs; it is different from having an employment relationship, so to speak, that the labour force is cheaper. The other is that, for the employee, in the short term, virtually more money can be put in the pocket. But that is not the point of the story, but what has been mentioned above is that, especially in terms of seasonal work, the daily tax-free income of HUF 5870 proved to be low. It is not proposed to raise this at random. This year it is 7631 forints, in the following year it is 8255 forints. Actually, there is a dilemma that I would like to share even at this stage. This is that the tax-free daily income in the non-skilled area was HUF 5870, i.e. what was taken as tax-free daily income, but if it was a job requiring skills, it was HUF 7410. I don't see it, I'm researching it, but I don't see in the draft law that in this case, if a skilled job is carried out, the tax-free daily income may increase in proportion from the previous HUF 7410 to the same rate as that of the unskilled HUF 5870 now. 7631 and 8255 forints next year, or is the story about to slip? It would certainly be appropriate to clarify this matter before a final decision is taken. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-13-332	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I wonder if any of my fellow Members would like to speak in this debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask the Member if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[László Vécsey says no.]] Congressman says he doesn't want to answer. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the implementation procedures to be implemented by the tax authority and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. The government referral is T/17782. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-11-13-333	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 9 November 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed the implementation procedures to be implemented by the tax authority, T/17782. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report were adopted by the committee by 24 votes in favour, no votes against, on the basis of the parliamentary decision on certain house rules, with 7 abstentions. In addition to the necessary technical and linguistic adjustments, the supported Economic Commission's amendment included a number of clarifications and complements those items with requests from Member States for recovery of unemployment benefits taken out abroad without legal basis, for which applications for payment preferences are not assessed by the State tax and customs authorities. The aim of the proposal is to simplify the enforcement procedures to be implemented by the tax authority, while facilitating voluntary enforcement of debtors, the implementation procedures should be implemented quickly and effectively, while safeguarding the interests of debtors. The reduction of red tape also affects the tax procedure, so that a number of complex legal institutions can be eliminated in the future. The adoption of the proposal will not only reduce bureaucracy and procedural costs, but also bring considerable relief to debtors with difficulties in paying. The bill settles a number of issues in a reassuring manner, along with further individualising and speeding up enforcement procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, Given that this is an extremely complex but also forward-looking and professionally sound proposal, I would ask that the proposal be supported by their vote in the final vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-334	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, as rapporteur, if you would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours, Mr. Secretary. [[20.20]]
u2017-11-13-335	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Since the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee has given a detailed description of how the proposed amendments have been made to the bill, I would like to highlight only a few of them. The Government supports the amendment proposed by the Economic Committee, which complements the interpretation provisions with the concept of own revenue, in order to make it clear that it is not intended to refer to revenue recognised in the direct revenue of the State. In order to facilitate the application of the law, it is necessary and appropriate to support the amendment setting the starting date for the first instance tax authority's obligation to lodge an enforcement complaint and to clarify the scope of orders which may be contested by an appeal in order to simplify the possibility of no appeal in the case of so-called interim orders in the same way as the rules in force. The Government agrees that it is necessary to supplement the rules of the vehicle transaction which the tax authority may order with the purpose of applying the measure. Thus, it was recorded in the bill that the subject matter was intended to determine the location of the invention of the vehicle in the unknown place. On the basis of the amendment, the regulation which would have authorised the tax authority to collect data on the property of the debtor's spouse is removed from the bill. In my view, the amendment whereby references to the specific provisions of the Act on the Rules of Taxation and the Act on Tax Administration are removed from the proposal facilitates the stability of the law, and instead the applicable provisions are specified in a descriptive manner. The Economic Committee's amendment, as we have heard, will introduce, in addition to the major changes described above, changes of a linguistic and legal nature, as well as other amendments that help coherence, wording and language positioning, in the text of the bill, which we are asking our fellow Members for their support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-336	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Secretary of State that, at the end of the debate, Mr Secretary of State has a seven-minute timeframe for the closing of the debate. Dear Parliament, The designated Economic Committee did not draft a rapporteur, and now the speeches will be held by its representatives. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. As there is no debate, I will also ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to speak as a closing point. Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the implementation of the EU Customs Code and the final amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/17991. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-11-13-337	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 9 November 2017, T/1799 on the implementation of EU customs law was discussed. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by 30 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. The Economic Committee's amendment, supported by the Legislative Committee, includes the necessary technical and linguistic adjustments. To date, customs procedures have been defined by the EU Customs Code, the EU Customs Code Act and the Act on General Rules for Administrative Procedure and Service as underlying requirements. The submission of the bill was necessary because the Act on General Administrative Rules, which will enter into force on 1 January 2018, restates the procedural provisions on administrative procedures and does not fall within the scope of the general administrative order that will enter into force next year. During the preparation of the submission, the existing Customs Act was recast. In addition to the substantive provisions in force, the procedural provisions have been incorporated following the structure of the Customs Code, as well as a review of the content of certain points. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to continue to support the proposal in the final vote. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-13-338	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-13-339	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As you know, the bill before you aims to establish the necessary procedural rules for customs administration procedures because the provisions of the General Administrative Regulation Act, which will enter into force on 1 January 2018, do not apply to customs procedures. In drawing up the bill, the national tax law in force was recast, retained and followed by the structure of the EU Customs Code. In the course of legislative work, the procedural measures which are specific and necessary in the customs administration procedure have been defined, from the initiation of the customs administration procedure to its conclusion, including the review and enforcement procedure. In addition to the establishment of procedural rules, the existing substantive provisions have been reviewed in order to allow for a shorter period of time or simplification of the procedure between customers and customs authorities in certain areas, allowing for a reduction in the administrative burden. The bill effectively facilitates the conduct of customs procedures. The practical experience of recent years has also shown that this area is well regulated and that the rapporteur pays due attention to the monitoring and regulatory coherence of changes in the trade and economic environment. With regard to the bill, the amendment did not bring any substantive change. In particular, legal issues have been resolved, and in one case there was a need for clarification, which allows in the ex officio administrative procedure for the duration of the customer's reporting not to be included in the time limit for administration of the customs authorities. Further amendments serve to ensure consistency and applicability of the norm. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian customs service operates with good results in European comparison, it plays an important role in the control of goods at external borders. With the application of our IT systems, export and import customs clearances are carried out by electronic procedures at almost a hundred percent, and customs control also supports the legality of the application of the law with good results. The lack of amendments by Members also shows that the bill was drawn up after serious professional preparation, as a result of extensive discussions on professional representation. That is why the Government is asking for Parliament's support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-340	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. We now have speeches from Members, if that is what my fellow Members are asking for. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. Since there is no debate, but I must ask Mr Secretary of State whether he wishes to speak as a closing point. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State says he doesn't want to say anything. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[20.30]] Dear Parliament, There is a debate on the Commission's reports on the tax system and the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/17994. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Galambos, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-11-13-341	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is the House Rules 46. Under Section T/1799 of the Act on the Rules of Taxation, it was negotiated by the Court of Justice of the European Union on the basis of Section T/1799 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. By 24 votes in favour, with 8 abstentions. The aim of the bill is to make taxation simpler, easier and more customer-friendly. In this context, I would like to highlight the points raised in the debate on the bill and then in the procedure before the TAB. Changes to the fine rules include the following facilitations in the context of the amendment of the law. The threshold for setting late payment allowances is increased from HUF 2 000 to HUF 5 000. The imposition of a default fine will be simplified. A fine replacing the non-notification of domestic workers, the reduction of illegal tax advances, the breach of the obligation to hold an account and the closure of a business will also be eliminated. The suspension of the tax number in this circle will be abolished. The suspension of the tax number, which is detailed in the reasoning in the draft law, is due to the following reasons. The taxpayer with a suspended tax number has a specific and extremely difficult status to manage from a tax point of view, as while certain rights are limited, it can carry out economic activities and must also comply with its related tax obligations. This duality is often incomprehensible to taxpayers, which is further complicated by the fact that the period of suspension is typically short, temporary and, in the rarest cases, adapted to the tax and tax reporting period. Therefore, we are proposing to abolish this legal institution in the bill. As regards the NAV, support for start-ups would appear as a new service, which would be a six-month period of mentoring professional support based on voluntary participation. Also as a new service, NAV would provide an online interface for taxpayers to report and report changes. This is certainly to be welcomed, given the operation of other systems, and therefore the rules for the transition from the company procedure to the electronic order. The Legislative Committee has accepted and supplemented the vast majority of the Commission's amendments closing the in-depth debate with its codification clarifications, bringing the proposal into line with the other tax proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, on the basis of the proposal, the State provides customer-centred services through the tax authority, helps taxpayers to fulfil their tax obligations, but does so in such a way that the revenue interests of the budget are not damaged or damaged. One of the pillars of the spirit of the proposal is that all debtors should take part in the burden-sharing in accordance with the legal provisions. In view of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill in the vote tomorrow. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-13-342	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Minister of State, who wishes to speak on behalf of the Government as rapporteur.
u2017-11-13-343	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, T/17994. The proposed legislation contains material provisions which are generally applicable in the course of the tax administration procedure. It regulates the system of tax obligations, such as the rules on reporting, reporting and reporting obligations, the system of penalties applicable to infringements, the rules on registration or limitation. According to the re-regulation concept of the system of taxation, the State provides customer-centred services through the tax authority, helps taxpayers to fulfil their tax obligations, but does so in such a way that the revenue interests of the budget are not harmed, and all debtors take their share of the public burden in accordance with the legal provisions. During the preparation, the aim was to strengthen the nature of the tax administration service provider, as a result of which the support of the beginner taxpayers was included in the bill, the system of legal consequences was reviewed and the conditional tax penalty appeared as a new legal institution. Substantial amendments were made to the bill submitted to Parliament, but they did not affect the fundamental provisions of the system of taxation. By way of amendment, the scope of the data to be reported to the tax authority and the monthly tax and contribution returns, with the social security identification mark, has been supplemented. In accordance with the changing tax enforcement rules, the amendment extended the bill in order to allow the State tax and customs authorities to exercise, from 1 January 2018, the right of retention in the case of public debt based on general administrative rules in the event of the payment of subsidies or tax refunds up to the amount of the debt, with which the debt will be deemed to have been paid. In accordance with the rules in force, the possibility of self-checking has been extended to cases where the limitation period would no longer be possible, but the court takes a final decision on the taxpayer's tax liability beyond the limitation period. In the event that the judicial decision provides for a period closed by inspection, the tax authority shall, at the request of the taxpayer, settle the situation in the context of a re-check. The bill leaves the official pricing requirement for the annual review of the online cash register, so that the market can develop it itself. The other amendment concerned the delegation provisions as, in the context of the implementing regulation, it was justified to revise the delegated provisions in order to ensure that the regulation was fully and coherent. Dear Parliament, The Bill on the Rules of Taxation provides a regulatory framework for all parties to taxation and taxation in line with the concept of the tax administration of the service provider, in order to fulfil obligations and conduct procedures. I ask you to support the adoption of the bill tomorrow with your votes. Thank you.
u2017-11-13-344	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Secretary of State that he has a six-minute time frame for the possible closing. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to its representatives to address the time frame available. I give the floor to Member István Ikotity, LMP Group.
u2017-11-13-345	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP has tabled three very important amendments to the Tax Code, which, unfortunately, was not supported by the pro-government majority of the committee responsible. The first is the draft law 23. It refers to §2 of the Tax Administration Act, so that the abolition of the tax administration procedure is a discrimination provision in its entirety, and we therefore proposed that it be completely abandoned. As a general rule, the legislator imposes sanctions or adverse legal consequences on the statutory omissions of the managers and owners of companies. This is okay so far if the debtor bears the consequences, but it is no longer right to distinguish between forms of ownership in a constitutional manner, in breach of their equality, in such a way that the State or budgetary body, the municipality and the other owners and managers, having a 25 per cent stake in the companies, grant an unlimited exemption from the adverse consequences. [[20.40]] These public, municipal and similar bodies should just as well set an example of compliance with payment discipline in any of the companies they own, so they are even more likely to refrain from violating practices. And then there's this paragraph that exonerates them from the consequences of their misdemeanor failure, which is exactly what they do with budget money. I think, fellow Members, that it is not worth further commenting on, that the situation is self-evident, yet you have failed to pay attention to our proposal, once again proving that discriminatory procedures and provisions are the basis for its government operation. Our second proposal is the 127th. § 3 of our amendment proposal, in the course of which we were guided by the fact that public data in the public interest or in the public interest could not under any circumstances be regarded as a tax secret. It is not for the law to lay down general public requirements outside the scope of the operation of the tax authorities, and in particular it is not for it to regulate public information in relation to State aids and tax incentives, contrary to the law of the Constitutional Court. Accordingly, it is appropriate to declare to the tax authority and its employees the obligation to retain unconditionally all information that is known in the context of taxation, but any other entities and persons familiar with the concept of tax secrets on a legal or contractual basis should be bound by the obligation of confidentiality in such a way as to make an exception to the obligation to publish or issue public data in the public interest or in the public interest. My fellow Members therefore had the opportunity to make a decision in order to ensure transparency in the operation of the government, but once again, as excellent voting machines, they gave a huge slap to the public of data of general interest. You know why; and according to the methods of lawmaking and exercising power that have been experienced in recent years, we suspect it. Finally, the last is the third, 164-173. Paragraph 1 deals with tax rulings. We have already expressed our views on the nature of this and the importance of the publicity of this field within the framework of the general debate, but once again briefly. Given the transparency and public interest aspects, we believe that disclosure obligations should be laid down for taxpayers who use such an option and that this chapter would have been complemented by Section 174. Paragraph 1 which could provide the public with basic information on tax rulings. Here we had specific detailed proposals concerning the method of publication and the data concerned. However, the Orbán government is also very afraid of something concerning the publicity of this data group, which is suspected to be related to the use of such tax incentives in general by multinational companies which are the government's great favorites or beneficiaries, unlike the lies of the Prime Minister's freedom fighter who feeds the pro-government press and their followers. I also think that these are things that need to be corrected as soon as possible after a change of government and that the provisions on discrimination should be abolished. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-13-346	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2017-11-13-347	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to the draft law on taxation, my fellow Member István Ikotity has asked three questions, and I would like to touch on one of them, which is in fact the question of public disclosure of data of general interest and the question of transparency. I'm not going to get to the bottom of it, because it's been opened up in the general debate, but as an example - which is obviously not mentioned here today - the public of Tao money doesn't have the kind of reality they should face, what they practically wanted, they want to hide for a long time, even to avoid the decision of the Curia. With regard to tax administration, we see that we see that they are trying to outsource a legally regulated legal institution to a lower level of legislation. In fact, this is not the right way to go, because, as I said, on the one hand, they want to hide from the public all the things that are not very pleasant to you, the pro-government representatives, and, on the other hand, they want to make the system work inaccessible. I don't think any of them are appropriate. Both should be fundamentally changed in practice, of course, I know that you will not do that. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-11-13-348	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to react. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to react in a closed manner. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the tax administration procedure and the summary amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/17995. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I would like you to tell Congressman Dénes Galambos to come in, because he is the rapporteur for our agenda. Dear Parliament, I'm ordering a one-minute break. In the meantime, my fellow Members, please remain seated. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Galambos, rapporteur for the Legislative Committee. Congressman, I give you the floor.
u2017-11-13-349	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The T/1795 ahead. Legislative bill No. 46 on tax administration, which the Legislative Committee refers to in the House Rules. The Committee discussed the draft amendment and the summary report pursuant to Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. By 24 votes in favour, with 8 abstentions. The bill, in the context of the previous laws and related acts, is the 2003 XCII on the system of taxation. Replaces the law. The new bill aims to create a short, transparent, understandable and easy-to-follow regulatory environment. The regulatory structure in the area of control will be simplified. In contrast to the previous seven types of checks, the bill carries out two checks, naming the follow-up investigation and the tax control. For all taxpayers, an objective audit deadline was included in the bill, according to which the duration of the tax control should not exceed 365 days. With regard to taxpayers who are not obliged to register, the maximum period of 180 days under the law in force is maintained, which can only be exceeded if the taxpayer hinders control. In order to speed up the procedures, if the second-degree tax authority acting on appeal does not have enough data to decide or needs further clarification of the facts, it will be possible for the superior body to take action itself to supplement the facts. In order to ensure that the procedures are completed as soon as possible, the bill reduces the possibility of submitting requests for supervision measures. The bill would also make the possibility of electronic administration fully available in this area, in line with the Law on Electronic Administration. The Legislative Committee has accepted and supplemented the vast majority of the Commission's amendments closing the detailed debate with its codification clarifications, bringing the proposal into line with the other tax proposals discussed at the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, the aim of the proposal is to create, as far as possible, a short, transparent, understandable and easy-to-follow regulatory environment and redirect back to what I indicated in the previous bill, to strengthen the nature of the tax administration service provider and to institutionalise the support of voluntary law followers. [[20.50]] In view of what has been said, I would also ask my fellow Members to support this proposal in tomorrow's vote. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-350	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister.
u2017-11-13-351	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As you know, the bill before you aims to establish the necessary procedural rules for the tax administration procedure, both in relation to the full re-regulation of the system of taxation and in view of the fact that the provisions of the General Administrative Rules Act, which will enter into force on 1 January 2018, do not apply in the tax administration procedure. The bill contains the general rules of procedure for the tax administration procedure, from the principles to the remedies. The aim of the re-regulation was to simplify and ensure that the procedures were closed as soon as possible. In line with this objective, the possibility of electronic administration becomes full in the tax administration process, the system of controls is simplified, the maximum duration of the tax control is set one year, the possibility of acting second-degree tax authority measures is increased in order to make appeal procedures more effective. A short, transparent system of procedure, specialized in taxes, will be created through tax administration, which, I believe, will facilitate the work of both the tax authorities and taxpayers in the future. The small number of amendments tabled to the bill submitted to Parliament show that the Members support the bill in substance. Only two substantive amendments have been made. One of the amendments allows the tax authority to decide on the allocation of part of the amount under control and to continue to control the remaining amount, which is a positive measure for the taxpayer under control. The other amendment concerned the delegation provisions as, in the context of the regulation of implementation, it was justified to revise the delegation provisions in order to ensure the completeness and coherence of the regulation. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-352	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. I give the floor to Serbian ethnic advocate Alexov Lyubomir, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. Here you go, Mr. Speaker.
u2017-11-13-353	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Poštovani Predsednice! Poštovana Skupštino! Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is responsible for the implementation of Article 10/2014 on certain house rules. Parliamentary resolution 44-45. In accordance with Article 4 of the Act on Tax Administration, www.parlament.hu/ongoing-levo-court proposals?p_auth=c5MyPrIo&p_p_id=pairproxyportlet_INSTANCE_9xd2Wc9jP4z8&p_lifecycle=1&p_state=normal&p_p_mode=view&p_p_col_id=column-1&p_p_col_count=1&_pairproxy_WAR_pproxyportlet_INSTANCE_9xd2Wc9jP4z8_p_pairAction=%2Finternet%2Fcplsql%2Forgy_irom_data %3Fp_ckl%3D40%26p_izon%3D15065 "class=1_195" Detailed discussion of bill No. 1. The Committee has assessed as a positive that the bill ensures the use of the nationality language of the person acting on behalf of the NGO and of natural persons subject to the national rights law. We see further progress in the fact that later practice of law enforcement also justifies the obligation of the tax administration to use an interpreter in tax administration procedures in the case of the use of nationality languages, if the national language used by the taxpayer or other participants in the proceedings is not spoken by the administrator. The provisions of the bill on the use of nationality languages are CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. Act 5. § 1 is in line with the provisions of paragraph 1 concerning the use of mother tongue, and the bill also takes into account the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages ratified in 1999. The committee for the bill is the house rule 32. Having examined the provisions of its notification pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure, it concluded that they complied with those provisions. The requirements set out in paragraph 1 of this Article shall also apply. The Committee did not take a position on a proposal for an amendment, nor did it intend to make any further amendments, and the Committee therefore does not submit an amendment closing a detailed debate. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 6 November 2017. On this basis, the committee proposes that the bill be adopted by the Parliament. Thank you for listening.
u2017-11-13-354	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2017-11-13-355	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just want to say two sentences. One is that the draft law on tax administration aims to outsource matters to a lower level of legal environment and legislation in respect of legal institutions on matters governed by current laws, such as the issue of detailed rules for control. And my second sentence is that in fact, contrary to what my fellow Member Pigeon says, it seems to me that instead of being transparent, in a sense, the lack of transparency becomes a ruler. We don't think that's right. I don't think it's right. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-13-356	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to answer. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to react in the context of the closing. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of laws and certain other laws relating to the entry into force of the General Administrative Regulation and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. The government referral is T/17998. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Galambos, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-11-13-357	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is the House Rules 46. T/17998 on the amendment of laws and certain other laws relating to the entry into force of the General Administrative Regulation. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. By 24 votes in favour, 7 against and 2 abstentions. Following the proposal for a law on tax administration, which has been discussed above, and here I would also like to refute the position of my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, as well as the amendment of the procedural provisions for all three laws, and therefore, in the context of this legislation, it is in any event designed to establish a tax administration procedure, coupled with the administrative order and the activities of the tax administration in connection with the administrative enforcement procedure, that it does serve to operate on the basis of uniform principles and in a state-of-the-art manner, bearing in mind customer-friendly aspects this package. The T/1799 that we're about to discuss. The 2016 CL on the General Administrative Regulation. It shall expire with effect from 1 January 2018. At the same time, the former legislation will be repealed. Accordingly, the Government submitted a draft tax administration law and a draft new tax law. [[21.00]] The bill contains the necessary amendments due to the entry into force of the General Administrative Regulation Act and the recoding of the system of taxation, as well as the necessary amendments due to internal and external harmonisation. The Legislative Committee has accepted and supplemented the vast majority of the Commission's amendments closing the detailed debate with its codification clarifications, bringing the proposal into line with the other tax proposals discussed at the meeting. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, it can also be said in the context of this bill: the proposal aims to ensure the applicability of the General Administrative Rules Act to the whole legal system. This is what the other two legislative proposals that have already been discussed have been for. I would also ask that the draft law be adopted in the light of the fact that, as of 1 January 2018, the National Tax and Customs Office will act as a general administrative enforcement service, which will be accompanied by a separate administrative enforcement law, which will also include implementing rules that will come out of the existing tax law. I therefore ask that you support the adoption of the bill with your votes tomorrow. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-358	Welcome, fellow Members. I will ask Mr Tállai State Secretary if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[On the mark of András Tállai:]] It says yes. You have the floor.
u2017-11-13-359	Mr President, Dear Parliament, T/17998 on the amendment of laws and certain other laws relating to the entry into force of the General Administrative Regulation Act. No amendments have been tabled to the bill. At the same time, the Commission's amendments tabled by the Economic Commission and the Legislative Committee are supported by the Government. Allow me to present the following key Commission amendments. With regard to the Labour Code, the proposal is aimed at addressing, on the one hand, issues relating to the implementation of the EU directives and, on the other hand, at achieving consistency between the various levels of legislation. I would point out that the present proposal amends the Labour Code in such a way that exposure to the risk of pregnant workers at work can be excluded. The proposal makes it possible for a worker with such a role to be able to request that he be reinstated in the original job if his employment is unlawfully terminated. The amendment under the proposal, contrary to what has been said in the debate, makes it clear that the guaranteed minimum wage should be set as a basic wage in the event of conditions. I would also like to settle the false assumption that, with the adoption of the proposal, self-employed entrepreneurs can be excluded from job-seeking. By amending the concept of employment promotion and unemployment benefits legislation, the proposal makes it possible to register as a job seeker if the self-employed person stops working. Dear Parliament, The Government supports the amendment proposed by the Economic Committee which also clarifies the rules for the reporting of online accounts to be introduced from 1 July 2011 in order to ensure the proper functioning of the system. The amendment tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs to the bill contains other amendments that are necessary from a legal point of view. The main elements of these are the substitution of rigid references to the new tax administration statute or to the Tax Code by flexible references, i.e. references to the specific provisions of these laws are removed and the applicable provisions are defined in a descriptive manner instead. In order to facilitate taxpayers' compliance with the law, it is necessary to amend the rules on the starting date for compliance with the reporting obligation for automatic equipment without handling staff for the supply of foodstuffs to the tax authority. This will be provided for in a ministerial regulation in the future, in which it is also justified to clarify the rules on reporting in the Tax Act. The provisions amending the fundamental laws contained in the bill have been deleted. I would ask that, together with the amendments supported by the Government, you support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-360	Ladies and gentlemen, The designated Economic Committee did not draft a rapporteur, so now the speeches will be held by its representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2017-11-13-361	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very briefly. Following the vote on the draft law on the general administrative statute, we are faced with the amendment of 114 laws following its entry into force. In this sense, it can also be said that processes become almost untraceable, and as a law-abiding citizen, it is quite difficult to follow this relocation. It is not the lack of legal qualifications, but it is slowly necessary not to start any process without legal representation. My fundamental problem is actually focused on one question here before tomorrow's vote. This is that I find it unacceptable that, in line with the minimum wage issue, it was possible to deviate more negatively from this earlier, which was adopted under the heading of the public employment minimum wage, and now there is a negative diversion option for the guaranteed minimum wage. I would not like the bill to be put to the vote tomorrow without calling to the attention of the government and my fellow Members, at the last minute, on this issue, that this is not a fortunate intention to change. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-11-13-362	Thank you. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment on the proposal. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I will ask Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, if he wishes to comment. [[András Tállai: No.]] It says no. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's report on the reduction of the social contribution tax and the amendment of the related legislation will be discussed. T/177776 submitted by representatives of Mihály Varga and Péter Cseresnyés. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I will ask Mr Péter Cseresnyés if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[On the sign of Peter Cseresnyés: It indicates that no. I'm going to ask if the government has any intention of commenting. (Authorized by András Tallai:]] Mr. Secretary of State says there isn't. The designated Economic Committee did not present a rapporteur, so now there will be speeches from its representatives, if anyone can press a button. There is also a candidate, Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2017-11-13-363	For Mr. President's sake, I wouldn't have pushed a button otherwise. But I'll say one sentence anyway. This bill also shows that there is a reduction in the employer's wage burden instead of workers. The reduction of the labour burden should be at least as high, because, if nothing else, the only example taken into account is that, within the framework of OECD countries, we are at the lowest level of minimum wage, we are in the worst position, or we can also say that we are in the first place with regard to the tax content and the tax size of the minimum wage, this should be taken into account. I am not going into the details; I just want to suggest to the attention of the government and my fellow Members that it would be worth not collecting tax forints from the direction where this is the most burdensome for payments. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[21.10]]
u2017-11-13-364	Thank you. If there is no further intention of commenting, the debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says no. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. It follows now that the 1996 CXXVI on the use of a specific part of personal income tax according to the taxpayer's provisions follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The representatives of Zoltán Balog, Zoltán Bóna and Miklós Soltész, István Hollik and László Szászfalvi submitted T/17957. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a maximum period of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman István Hollik.
u2017-11-13-365	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, During the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 9 November, CXXVI of 1996 on the use of a specific portion of personal income tax as provided for by the taxpayer was discussed. a bill amending the law. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 24 votes in favour and 7 abstentions. The summarised amendment includes the amendments proposed by the Economic Committee, which were supported by the Legislative Committee without amendment or debate. With the adoption of the bill, churches will have the opportunity to learn about the number of individuals offered for their benefit per settlement. Furthermore, according to the proposal, the tax authority will take account of a statement of 1 percent to be offered to churches until it is amended or withdrawn, which will obviously make it both easier for taxpayers and an opportunity for the churches. The aim of the proposal is therefore to remove the regulatory distinction between civil society organisations and churches, in order to give churches access to the data of individuals offering them and to reduce the administrative burden. That is why I ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-13-366	Thank you. I take it you no longer wish to comment, Congressman. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to comment. (To be indicated:) It's just a warning. Okay, thank you. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Now, there will be speeches from representatives when someone pushes a button. [[There's no candidate.]] There are no candidates, so the debate is closed. As rapporteur, I suppose you no longer wish to comment, Congressman Hollik. [[For signal:]] He said no. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 1996 LXXXI on corporate tax and dividend tax. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/18006 submitted by representatives of Mihály Varga and Bence Tuzson. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee. I also give the floor to Congressman István Hollik.
u2017-11-13-367	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee has discussed the bill and, in this context, the provisions on certain house regulations of 10/2014. Ogy Decision 46. It submitted an amendment and report with 25 votes in favour and 8 abstentions. During the committee meeting, the members approved without discussion the amendment contained in the background, which was also voted on by the Economic Committee. The aim of the proposal before us is that the 1996 LXXXI should support innovative companies in Hungary. The national authorities are initiating the extension of the system of development tax incentives by amending law. Ladies and gentlemen, With the introduction of these rules, companies in the Central Hungary region could gain momentum, which would not only help large companies or employment, but also provide small Hungarian companies with a delivery option on the other side. These companies can develop from all over the country. That's why I'm asking for your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-13-368	Thank you. I will ask Congressman Tuzson Bence if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-369	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This is a major amendment to the law in terms of the fact that aid to enterprises in Central Hungary can become more and more effective as a result of this bill, and that there can be consistency between ECD subsidies and tax incentives of this type, i.e. development tax relief. This law has already included development tax incentives, such as those existing for environmental investments or R &amp; D investments. However, so far, businesses and companies in Central Hungary have been left out of this type of tax relief. Therefore, taking advantage of the EU's support options and the fact that ECD grants, which are the same as EU legal bases, already contain this type of possibility to complete the aid, which is not a new enterprise, but which want to introduce a new product or apply a new procedure, and thus contribute to job creation, it is worth introducing another kind of tax relief. And indeed, as Mr President has just said, this can also promote the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, as there are large companies in Hungary that have a large, large investor and a large product range, with the introduction of a new product that can help small and medium-sized enterprises to develop in Hungary, and small and medium-sized enterprises to grow. Unfortunately, companies in Central Hungary have been able to use very little EU support since the Central Hungary region is an advanced region in the European Union, mainly because of the development of Budapest. At the same time, there is a great need for these Hungarian companies to prosper, grow and strengthen in this region, as well as companies that are in Hungary. After all, companies that operate a headquarters in Hungary can also be considered Hungarian businesses. Especially if they are engaged in such a serious activity and are also conducive to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Accordingly, I ask you to support the proposal and also to support the legislative committee's amendment, which contains technical clarifications on the use of the benefit, but does not change the purpose and essential function of the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-13-370	Thank you. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State Tállai if he'd like to comment on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] It says no. The designated Economic Committee did not draft a rapporteur, so now the speeches will be held by its representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity.
u2017-11-13-371	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. This bill cannot be supported by the LMP after the amendment. No major changes have been made to the previous proposal. Overall, it would not be a problem, but rather that it is not for those who really need it. The problem arises from the fact that they do not put the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises first, but that the aim is not to improve their situation, but that this proposal is again good for large multinational companies. It is important to emphasise that such measures do not create equal opportunities and conditions of competition. The government should press for this instead of concluding individual agreements with companies. This proposal also serves certain interests, is completely personalised, leaving the interests of the little ones behind. [[21.20]] It is untenable that multinational companies receive four times as much support to create jobs as domestic companies. In particular, small businesses who cannot produce the minimum wage increase should be supported, not given to those who already have it. Otherwise, it shows very well the government's tax policy of who it wants to favour and who it doesn't. The last time corporate tax reductions were announced, they were nice to the multinationals, because while small businesses had a total reduction of 1 percent, large companies had a decrease in the corporate tax burden of 10 percent. According to the LMP, it is therefore important to move away from the economic blind spot designated by Fidesz to give people decent jobs, wages and pensions in Hungary. SMEs should be given priority; general wage increases, tax-free minimum wages and multi-key tax systems taxing the rich are also included in the proposal called the LMP programme of the Renewal Hungary, which is an alternative to the current misconceptions. Instead of Hungarian businesses, Fidesz gives tax incentives to international corporations, provides Hungarian workers, drives underpaid healthcare workers abroad, forces teachers to leave the country, and lets over a million pensioners live under unworthy financial conditions. Instead, we would encourage special support for small and medium-sized enterprises by reducing the tax burden, as jobs produced by small businesses would also significantly reduce the migration process that has been characteristic of the country for many years. We are convinced that the richer must bear the greater tax burden and make the minimum wage tax free, with a net of 23 thousand forints, and the average wage of 38 thousand forints. The pension minimum must be increased from the current HUF 28 500 to HUF 50 000 and the basic salary of the public sector to HUF 138 thousand. I could tell you about the teacher's wage increase, the student's tuition exemption, but it's all just the direction, instead of what's right in front of us right now. This is not what the government should continue to do. For this reason and because of what is included in this proposal, as they do not serve these objectives, the possibility of a better life is not supported by the LMP. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-13-372	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2017-11-13-373	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As regards the draft law on corporate tax and dividend taxation, we are talking about the issue of tax incentives after developments in the Central Hungarian region. That's not the problem. The problem is, in fact, what my colleague Hollik and fellow Member Tuzson are talking about, that they are saying something, and something else is actually happening. They are talking about the importance of becoming a beneficiary of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Yes, it would be, but, you know, this measure, which is drafted within the framework of this bill, does not exactly concern them. I'll also give you the headlines why it doesn't concern them. It does not concern them because, in terms of the conditionality, after the developments, virtually peripheral conditions will be drawn in the following four years, which will be accompanied by an increase in the average number of staff by a minimum of 50. Micro-enterprises are known to be between 1 and 10 people, and small enterprises have employment numbers between 11 and 50 people. Developments are in the order of magnitude of a micro enterprise, such as that which can be brought to life here in the case of investments worth more than HUF 6 billion or investments combined with job creation of more than HUF 3 billion, I do not know how many they can show in the country, let us say that they are a micro enterprise or a small enterprise, they can start such developments. In this sense, it is precisely micro- and small businesses who are excluded, simply because of their situation, that story. But there are other parametrizations, which virtually excludes them, which is that, in terms of wage costs, the minimum wage calculated for the tax year should increase by three times the salary. Once again, if we start thinking logically, it becomes clear that micro- and small enterprises cannot meet the marginal conditions for this parametrization. In this sense, the tax relief linked to the corporate tax and dividend tax amendment initiative is in practice affecting multinationals and large companies. In the same way that my fellow Member Ikotity mentioned with one sentence that in terms of corporate income tax, this rate was reduced from 19 to 9 per cent, i.e. by 10 per cent for large companies, while this is accompanied by a reduction from practically 10 per cent to 9 per cent for micro and small enterprises, i.e. a reduction of 1 per cent. I would just like to say and draw the attention of my fellow Members, Mr Hollik, that this is not about micro- and not small businesses, not about the multitude of businesses present in the vast majority of Hungary, but about large companies, multinationals who are factually, in many ways demonstrably kind to you for some reason. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-13-374	Thank you. I'm asking if there's anyone else who would like to comment on the proposal. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. The debate is therefore closed. I'll ask Congressman Tuzson Bence if he wants to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor.
u2017-11-13-375	Thank you very much, Mr. President. However, there are some important questions that are worth noting. My fellow Member and I have both talked about the fact that it represents indirect support and an indirect opportunity - this word has been said, fellow Members - in this tax relief system. If large companies in Hungary are observed, they have a double impact on the Hungarian labour market. On the one hand, they can become large employers themselves, such as the Audi case in Győr, which employs around 12,000 employees in Hungary, but far above the number of workers who are indirectly involved in the production chain, which means that suppliers can have double the number of employees. However, these enterprises are generally small and medium-sized enterprises. The Hungarian economy cannot be divided into parts. The Hungarian economy must always be treated as a unified whole. Therefore, if a form of aid is implemented in one place, it must always be a system of aid running along the production chain. On the one hand, the appreciation of the Hungarian people's work can increase in addition to the number of jobs, and on the other hand, it is particularly important that small and medium-sized enterprises can also develop. Therefore, if we are talking specifically about development, in terms of development tax incentives, there will be a supply chain already in place at the moment of development and in terms of its implementation, and on the other hand, during continuous operation, Hungarian suppliers can join the production chain, and accordingly, in addition to the mandatory employment data - I stress: mandatory - this can also appear on the other side in small and medium-sized enterprises as a new job creation opportunity and a business opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises. This type of support therefore specifically helps the entire Hungarian economy, and the fact that it can be implemented in Central Hungary can not only help small and medium-sized enterprises in Central Hungary, but also help small and medium-sized enterprises throughout the country through the supply chain. I therefore call for this proposal, including the amendment, to be supported. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-376	Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain tax laws affecting sport enterprises and the discussion of the summarised amendment are now in order. The T/18007 submitted by Congressman István Tiba. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I also give the floor to Congressman István Hollik.
u2017-11-13-377	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The Legislative Committee discussed the bill amending certain laws relating to sport enterprises, and the Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 27 votes in favour, 9 against and no abstentions. [[21.30]] The summarised amendment contains the proposals for a detailed debate adopted by the Economic Committee. Briefly, on the substance of the proposal: in view of the tasks of sports enterprises in relation to sport activities, it is appropriate to grant benefits for each type of tax in order to help them operate. Therefore, the draft legislation amending certain laws on taxation affecting sport enterprises includes provisions on local taxes, corporate and dividend taxes, simplified public liability contributions and special taxes and benefits to improve the balance of public finances. Ladies and gentlemen, We can say that we can support Hungarian sport by adopting the proposal before us. Please consider your support. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-13-378	Thank you. I will ask Mr István Tiba, as rapporteur, if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] It says no. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State Tállai if he'd like to comment. (To be indicated:) It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated economic committee. We now have speeches from Members. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2017-11-13-379	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The most important item - I say to my fellow Member Hollik - is that we do not have to pay business taxes to sports companies in connection with the amendment of laws on taxation affecting sports businesses. For example, in addition to entry, hire, advertising or sponsorship contracts, it is linked to the proceeds. That's one thing. In fact, you could say that I don't understand why, but I don't care about that question. The other part is that it is not necessary to pay 20 per cent of the revenue received as a consideration for the employment of official athletes. It's a nonsense category story, because technically, they're doing it backwards, if I remember correctly, from September 1st. In practice, this situation states that while, before, an annual income of HUF 125 million, now, this bill can be used up to HUF 250 million per year, which should be interpreted as a significant tax benefit. If I divide this 250 roughly by 12, then it is a sum of money legally earning income with an order of HUF 21 million. Obviously, this in Hungary, as I see it, affects the golden-legged ones in particular, in terms of sports - quote - so it affects football players. And there is one more thing, in line with what my fellow Member Hollik has said, and it is that if we take into account not Hungary, not Europe, not the G4 level, not Europe, but the world's second - second! - we're the least tax athletes, coaching countries in the world. I don't think that's the most important question. I would rather pay attention and draw your attention to turning to the direction in which the tax exemption should not be granted to football players, but, let us say, a tax reduction for people in the lowest income range, simply because of the greatest tax burden on people who earn the least, in relation to Hungary, in the community of developed countries, within the OECD. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-11-13-380	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2017-11-13-381	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, During the general debate and the meeting of the Legislative Committee, we tried to impress common sense, and we tried to show how morally wrong it was, that they wanted to favour football in the first place again. We have tried to show and explain our arguments as to how inadequate this 20 percent reduction is, for example, and to go back to football. Then during the negotiations, i.e. as long as we discussed this law, there was the football match against Luxembourg, which everyone in Hungary experienced as a complete failure. I didn't think so; I saw with positive thinking hope after the match against Luxembourg, because I thought that we might be able to say and bring up another argument that if we consider that over 11 percent of corporate tax revenue has been abandoned by the government in the last six years, and that much of the Tao has flowed into football, and we also believe that we should take an example, say, of another sector, such as health care, doctors and nurses working in health care are very talented in the world, and that if they were given such support as football players, then Hungarian health could be a world leader, rather than suffering defeats from Andorra and Luxembourg, such as our today's death-supported football. And I was thinking that maybe these arguments will convince you not to vote on this law tomorrow, because it is morally - in my opinion - in a country where health is here, it is not okay. Then I thought about how powerful and influential these arguments should be against people, and then I was not so positive, because the author, István Tiba, who wishes to favour Balmazújváros football, knows that he is a powerful man, because in a corruption-suspecting case, if the postman is condemned, to whom the money is taken, he is not, if someone can arrange it, he is a powerful man, so it is unlikely that he will be convinced. Then the other powerful man, who strongly supports this amendment of the law, is Tállai András Deputy Minister, NAV leader, who wants to benefit from this law for field football, and who I learned yesterday that he can also use his power to make petrol and diesel cheaper in Mezőkövesden [[András Tállai: Aren't you ashamed?]] And with this, you will gain such great news that one of the world's leading economics professional portals brings it on the front page that this is how things work in Hungary today. I thought it was a shame to really trust moral sensitivity here. It's a shame to tell you anything you feel you can do anything in this country. We will not vote for this law tomorrow. You, I suppose, will vote for it. You have five more months, and then we'll see what happens. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-13-382	Thank you. On a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2017-11-13-383	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just want to say two sentences. One's about morality, the other's about confidentiality. With regard to morality, I think that there is no need to go further than what my fellow Member is talking about, because it is simply a person who thinks that the availability of the HUF 21 million monthly resource should be matched with tax incentives, and I think there is nothing to talk about in this respect. In terms of encryption, if I refer back, when it comes to sports, in terms of tao money, it is that even the Curia's adopted position, its decision is being played out or avoided, and it shows in itself what your relationship is with any authority's disagreement with those types of decisions. One word as a hundred: it does not seem to me that it makes sense to set up any argument in order to see why what is right or what is wrong in our view, because you do not care at all. I can see from every move and every action they make, that they are doing just and as they are doing for you in terms of some kind of central brain - quoted in quotes - and they are using you, so to speak, to give up their dignity, to make virtually the decisions that may be made later, when they look back on the multitude of their own decisions, they will no longer be so pleased and so proud. Maybe it's worth avoiding, so we can think about that until tomorrow. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[21.40]]
u2017-11-13-384	Thank you. On a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2017-11-13-385	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I didn't want to comment anymore, but only to get that in the record. So when we talk about such important issues here, that the state of health and how much money we have spent on football and so on, and you end up, say, your speech, then a Deputy Minister, who, by the way, can even take the lead position of the NAV, turns backwards, looks at István Tiba, and laughs about this whole thing, pompously and arrogantly... After all, they do not care that Hungary and the Hungarian people are good, they care that they can put together as much money as possible, either for themselves or for the organisations they lobby, for those sports companies who can benefit from it, and what matters to them is that Viktor Orbán, who, by the way, loves football very, very much in Hungary, shows how well the country can be, if our football is where it is going after the sacrifice of so much money, they laugh equally pompously and leniently. Laugh, gentlemen, the only problem is that with all this fun and such laws that you bring to Parliament, you are destroying this country and ruining the Hungarian football, on behalf of which you are bringing these laws to Parliament. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-13-386	Thank you. I give Mr Nándor Gúr the opportunity to comment.
u2017-11-13-387	Thank you very much, Mr. President. To continue with my fellow Member's line of thought, I would like to say that they are hurting twice. Twice they do harm by taking these types of measures. Once, because of the use of resources that can be used or used for sport, they make types of uses that can be considered virtually useless, since they cannot provide a positive confirmation of the common good. They can't, because they can push 200-300-400 billion forints into the construction of stadiums, making Hungarian football of no higher quality. Rather, we should move towards, say, the growing generation, the young people's ability to play sports, how and how to improve. Rather, it would be better to finance the help and support of young Hungarians who will give Hungarian football players either for the first-class football player Mezőkövesd or for football players in the Hungarian national team, who will be able to fill the Hungarian stadiums at least partially after a period of time, not as they are today. So what I'm trying to say is that they're hurting twice, because at some point when they're making investments and investments that have virtually lost content, because they're not a positive result of the story, they're taking these money away from people, and they're taking it away from people, and that's the most important thing. The most important thing is that the incorrect use of resources, even as they do within the budget, is that they spend much more on public operations than, say, eight years ago in terms of rates, and social spending, caring expenditure for people and less, so these are decision-making positions in which I think they are far from making a good journey. Referring to the bill itself, I just want to say that I think it is absolutely wrong to give discounts to people who are rich in wealth anyway. Even in terms of goods that you can obtain, Mr Deputy Minister, you will earn multiples of your decent salary and salary, and then you will get more and more benefits. I don't think this is the right way. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-13-388	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the proposal. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I will ask Congressman István Tiba if he wishes to comment. The author says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-389	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I regret that in all this time, my fellow Member Gur was unable to understand that this is not about football, it is about sport, it is about sports, it is about all kinds of sports, it is about all professional sports. [[Nándor Gúr: Unfortunately, no.]] Obviously, it's in your best interest that you're just trying to talk about football, and that's how you're trying to get the country's public against sport. This proves that he does not support or like sports on any level. I am proud to support sport and to support professional athletes. I agree with my colleague Szilágyi on the performance against Luxembourg, it was outrageous. It is true that if we mention this, let us mention that one day later the U21 team achieved excellent results against the Swedes. At the same time, I think it would certainly be a good thing if you thought about what this law is all about, the promotion of Hungarian sport, from chess to all sports. You didn't say anything about it, and once you didn't appreciate all the Hungarian athletes in all the other sports saying, yes, we would support them, but we wouldn't support football. You guys were just talking about not supporting sports because of football. From this point on, they gave an opinion on a very wide layer of Hungarian athletes who, thanks to the good Lord, represent Hungary very well in many cases at the Olympics and World Championships, of course, when they have the opportunity, they stand by them, take pictures with them, applaud them, but when they can actively support them, they do not do so. With your hearts on it, I believe that the majority of Parliament who, I hope, vote in favour of these subsidies will make the right decision tomorrow. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-390	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. It follows from the 2012 CXLVII on the specific tax for small companies and the small company tax. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The representatives of Gergely Gulyás, Róbert Répássy, Mónika Bartos and Dénes Galambos submitted T/18008. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey.
u2017-11-13-391	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 9 November 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2012 CXLVII on the specific tax of small companies and the small company tax. T/18008. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Parliament's resolution of 10/2014 on certain house rules. pursuant to Rule 26 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted by 26 votes in favour, no votes against, with 5 abstentions. In addition to its own amendments, the draft amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee includes the Commission's proposal to close a detailed debate, which contains clarifications. The bill complements the scope of the specific tax on small-tax companies, i.e. those who are entitled to choose the kata, and expands the possibility of training the loss. In 2012 CXLVII on the specific tax of small companies and the small company tax. According to the rules of law, individual lawyers can still opt for taxation on the basis of the specific tax of taxpayers. [[21.50]] In addition to individual lawyers, the proposal we are discussing now also allows law firms to tax catalysms. The proposal also concerns kiva, as it also provides for relief for small business taxpayers in the area of loss relief and write-down. I would ask you to support the bill in the final vote tomorrow in the light of the above. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-392	Thank you. I will ask Mr Répássy, Member, if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-393	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to recall that the principle of the specific tax on small-tax companies is that, as a general rule, up to HUF 12 million a year, forints 50 thousand per month are paid by small-tax entrepreneurs, and, with the deduction of this amount, those affected are also exempt from other corporate and personal income tax and contributions. This means that they can enjoy this form of taxation on average up to HUF 950 000 net income per month and enjoy net tax-free or at least tax-free income up to HUF 950 000. But the most important rule is the 12 million border. This limit has risen from HUF 6 million to 12 million, and, as you said earlier on behalf of the Legislative Committee, Congressman Vécsey, among lawyers, individual lawyers have already had recourse to this rule for taxpayers, I will simplify it, Kata - everyone calls it that - but for example, the law firms could not have used it, despite, say, a one-man law firm and an individual lawyer, at least from the point of view of revenue and the threshold of 12 million. So, when some people here in the general debate referred to the term "lawyer lobbying" and it is not permissible to say that lobbying has been held, I would say that lobbying in addition to common sense is not such a big problem, so I am happy that, if this rule, this form of taxation, already existed, there is no obstacle to this new tax rule for individual lawyers remaining below HUF 12 million. The same is also the case with regard to the rules of the Kiva, for which the Parliament already introduced favourable tax changes in 2017 and, in respect of the Kiva, the small company tax, this proposal contains an facilitation. So I have to say that it is partly positive tax changes and, in part, simple rationalisation in the bill, so I ask you to vote against all reservations in the bill, not to harm but to use the rules for the taxpayers concerned. I need your help. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-394	Thank you. Mr Tállai, State Secretary, indicated that he did not wish to comment. No rapporteur was presented by the Economic Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. Congressman Nándor Gúr has spoken. You have the floor.
u2017-11-13-395	My fellow Member, it is not the fact that individual law firms enter the circle where individual lawyers were already there, by the way. There's no problem with that, at least I don't have a problem with that. There is no problem if you can obtain funds of 11 million 400 thousand forints per month with reduced tax rates and HUF 50,000 per month, with a tax equivalent of 600 thousand forints per year. The real problem is that if you've observed the legislation of the last few months that you're doing, it's about doing this through individual representatives' motions, bill proposals, and, in a sense, narrow surfaces. So my biggest problem is that they've been avoiding the issue of social consultation all the time, even in this case. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-11-13-396	Thank you. I'll ask if anyone else wants to comment on the proposal. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I will ask Congressman Répássy if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] It says no. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 1990 XCIII on levies. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/18010 submitted by representatives of Balázs Győrffy, István Jakab and László Vécsey The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I also give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey.
u2017-11-13-397	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 9 November of the current year, the members held a meeting with XCIII of 1990 on fees. T/18010 on the amendment of the Act About bill No. 1. The board of the house rules 46. It submitted an amendment and a summary report with 22 votes in favour and 9 abstentions. The summarised amendment includes the amendments proposed by the Committee on Agriculture, which were supported by the Legislative Committee without amendment or debate. In particular, the Committee on Agriculture, on the proposal of our fellow Member Balázs Győrffy, added that the tax benefit should also apply to land use transferred to a company owned by at least 25 per cent of the land owner's close relative. Ladies and gentlemen, In the general debate, we have already stated that with the proposed legislation, we are resolving a lack of coherence between two legislations, both by providing farmers and landowners with significant progress and by giving up part of the tax revenue to create clear and clear relations on the land market. In view of the above, I would like to ask you to support the motion with your vote tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-13-398	Thank you. I take it that, as rapporteur, Mr President, you do not wish to comment. [[For signal:]] It says no. I'm asking Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to comment on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] No. The designated Committee on Agriculture did not present a rapporteur, so now it is time for representatives to speak if someone pushes a button. [[No signal.]] But I don't see a candidate, so I'm gonna close the debate. I would like to ask you once again if, as rapporteur, László Vécsey wishes to speak to him. [[For signal:]] It says no. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The debate now follows on from the Commission's report on the implementation of the 2016 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. T/15813. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I will ask Mr Sándor Bodó if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor.
u2017-11-13-399	Yes, thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The 2010 Media Services and Public Communications Act 134. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority shall submit its accounts and accounts for the previous year's management by 31 May each year. The authority fulfilled this obligation, and the Committee on Budgets also discussed it at its meeting on 24 May and submitted the submission to the Parliament. There was no substantive debate at the committee's meeting on closing accounts. The proposal was accepted by the representatives of the Committee by 10 votes in favour and 3 votes against and proposed to be adopted. [[22.00]] The National Media and Infocommunications Authority is required to submit its report on the previous year's management by 31 May each year. The authority fulfilled this obligation, and the Committee on Budgets also discussed it at its meeting on 24 May and submitted the submission to the Parliament. There was no substantive debate at the committee's meeting on closing accounts. The proposal was accepted by the representatives of the Committee by 10 votes in favour and 3 votes against and proposed to be adopted.(22.00) Obviously, I do not wish to recall what was said in the general debate on 31 October. I would ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-13-400	Thank you, Congressman. The government has indicated that it does not wish to present its position now, that the Committee on Culture has not presented a rapporteur. We now have speeches from Members, if anyone wishes to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. The debate is therefore closed. I will ask Mr Bodo if he wishes to comment on the non-existent debate. [[For signal:]] Apparently not. Decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting, honourable Members. We now have the debate on the Commission's report on the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2018. T/17872 submitted by the Committee on Budgets The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I will ask Mr Sándor Bodó if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. He says yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-401	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, T/17872. The draft law on the 2016 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority is in front of us. According to the house rules, the NMHH cannot submit a bill, so this task is carried out by the Committee on Budgets. The Authority sent its report by deadline, which was also discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets on 16 October. At the meeting of the Committee, the representatives of the Authority added their proposals and responded willingly to the questions asked. Members present supported the motion by 10 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 1 abstention. I would ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-13-402	Thank you. The government indicated that it did not wish to state its position, and the designated Committee on Culture did not present a rapporteur. There may be speeches by Members now, but I do not see a candidate, so I will end the non-existent debate. Congressman Sándor Bodó, I take it you no longer wish to comment. It says no. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agenda. We now have post-scheduled speeches. Mr Sándor Bodó applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "Tourism of Hajdúszoboszló." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-403	Thank you very much. Everyone has good tourist experiences, and this can be quite variable depending on age and life situation. It is a different way of living as a child, a young adult, a family with small children, or an older age. Tourism has a wide range of opportunities: leisure, cultural, sport, active recreation, and, of course, these chapters could be listed. There is no tourism on its own, but we all see it, and we also need to be aware that this has grown into an important industry in several countries, and fortunately Hungary is one of them. In other words, hospitality is not far from Hungarian mentality, and this is a special bonus in this situation. Of course, the results have to be done, the tourist successes do not come on their own, so at the government meeting held on 12 July 2017, we were pleased to see that the area of Debrecen, Hajdúszoboszló, was named as a priority tourist region. Accordingly, some investments in the region have also been identified, resulting in a HUF 5 billion development in the period 2017-2030 in Hajdúszoboszló. The agreed strategic development programme includes programmes that will help to further develop the region, enrich the economic and cultural development of the people living here, enrich tourism opportunities and include additional European quality urban development elements. Hajdúszoboszló is the most important city in my constituency, but I think that this can be said on a national level, the situation of which determines not only the daily lives of the people in the region. The city appears as an economic and tourist centre, which we are very pleased to develop. Within the framework of the programme, it is possible to create an attractive cityscape worth HUF 1.5 billion, to renew the spa park of the European standard spa worth HUF 1 billion, to create an additional unique experience zone at the beach bath of HUF 1.5 billion, and to develop the four-season active experience attraction of HUF 1 billion. We know that the development of tourism has a major impact on the economic situation of the people living here and on further increasing the opportunities of our country. The expansion, enrichment and development of existing opportunities are extremely important and we are pleased to see that Hungary's Government also provides financial resources for this. By expanding the city's opportunities, we can expect more visitors, which is also important from an economic point of view, and I believe that it means a long-term investment. In my previous speeches, I also referred to the fact that although Hajdúszoboszló receives a record number of guests from year to year, we cannot sit back, because rivals also work. After analysing the results in Hungary, we need to think about how to proceed, and the government's decision shows that there is a partner for us. I am therefore pleased that these developments are now being drafted in a legislative regulation and that the programme-level work has also started. In this activity, it has been said, in fact, that four settlements or regional units are involved, Debrecen, Hajdúszoboszló, Hortobágy and the region of Lake Tisza, and it is important that these actors do not consider each other as rivals, but as cooperative partners. The programme also includes a flatland cycling infrastructure development, which also affects Tisza-to, Ones and Tiszacsege, and I believe that this can be a new attraction for tourism. From this point of view, economic opportunities are almost unlimited, and I believe that the improvements that are being made will not only improve the living conditions of the people living here, but also provide for further tourism development. Thank you very much for your support, and I believe that the work that has been done so far and the current planning will also serve the goal that this region can continue to be a hub for tourism in the future. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-13-404	Thank you. To speak after the next agenda, Mr Ander Balázs asked for a speech: what is the value of the worker if he is Hungarian? - It's called Part Two. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-405	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, So far, governments that lied to themselves as left-wing and socially sensitive or even civil, national and freedom fighters have entered into strategic partnerships with multinational companies and their own billionaires in Hungary. In contrast, they forced the Hungarian workers to become strategic servants. What's the proof for that? It's just that the money was on a conveyor belt for multinational corporations. During the MSZP's period, it amounted to HUF 4.6 million for each job created, and in the years of the Fidesz government it increased by 43 percent and became HUF 6.6 million. There is more: in 2016, this has already jumped to HUF 11.4 million, and there was an energy drink company that received HUF 22 million from the Hungarian state for every new job created. I think I do not have to be particularly concerned that Hungarian Hungarian SMEs do not dare to dream of this kind of distribution. In parallel, it was demolished and allowed to be destroyed in order to put it this way, including domestic employee protection. Let's look at the numbers right here. At some point in the early 2000s, trade union membership was still around 20 percent, which is now falling below 8 percent. In countries with better luck, this can reach up to 80 percent, unlike Hungary. The share of workers covered by collective agreements is around 25 percent, and in Scandinavian states it is two-thirds. Workers who have remained unprotected and, unfortunately, are considered only to be soulless labour animals, the working conditions of Hungarian workers have deteriorated to a terrible extent, and we could bring up horrific statistics on work protection and work accidents here. In recent years, the number of accidents at work has increased from 17,000 to 23,000. This means a one-third deterioration. [[22.10]] But in response to my written question, for example, I have been given the authority that the number of accidents at work has increased by a hundred percent in recent years in the case of workers working on the road, i.e. the public company. So the original meaning of the word, otherwise Slavic root work, becomes understandable, which is nothing more than suffering, torture, torment, pain. I think that's the etymology they were looking at when, for example, the labor code was turned into a slave law by the current Fidesz gentlemen. Or just when it was thought that the main attraction for capital in Hungary is how cheap Hungarian workers are here, and because of their dissemble, they can even cut wood on their backs. However, we believe that Hungarian workers, Hungarian workers, should not be maimed or driven away, but should be valued as the last strategic national treasure of this country. Unfortunately, this is not what we see, the reality shows a much worse picture, as the net minimum wage in Slovakia is now one third higher than in Hungary, and there this minimum wage employment only affects 120 thousand people, compared to over one million people in Hungary. But I could mention here that in Romania the value of per capita consumption has now reached the Hungarian level, i.e. the so-called Big Mac index, which shows how much Big Mac can be bought by a worker there, the same size in Bucharest as in Budapest. However, it is difficult to build a successful country with worn-out, burned-out, sick, crippled workers. The human resources disaster is therefore inevitable. Effective action will be needed to protect workers' interests, and a Jobbik government will implement this after 2018. We're gonna need real consultations, a real dialogue instead of the dictators we've had before. Legal protection must be given to trade union leaders and to trade unions with serious labour control powers, and a strong role must be given to them in the fields of education, further training and retraining, since it is a very serious issue that we wish to be biorobots, assembly workers or an innovative nation competing with knowledge. Jobbik wants to create a fair, livable and competitive Hungary, because we believe in the work of Hungarian workers and heart and soul. Thank you for your attention. [[György Szilágyi: That's right! A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-13-406	Thank you. Speaking after the next agenda, Mr László György Lukács asked for a speech: in these circumstances the residents live in the heart of the Great Plain. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-407	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Today I applied for a post-scheduled speech because I thought it was very important to talk about a process and phenomenon defining the heart of the Great Community, the settlements of the Tisza region. This is the health situation in these settlements. Although they may live in the villages of Nagykunság and Tisza, from Tiszafüred to Túrkeve, from Gun to Karcag in any of the settlements, one is certain: they belong to the territory of three of the districts, or if we count Túrkeve, they belong to four areas where the health indicators are below the national level. Of course, in order to judge what is happening, we must first assess the state of the district itself and the state of health in the settlements, and then look at the solutions that can be offered to these problems. From a public health point of view, perhaps one of the most important data to know is that 376 thousand people live in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, and these three eastern and northeastern districts of the county have a continuous declining population. Perhaps the number of inhabitants will decrease to more than all other county settlements. We can say that, and this is important, that, unlike the general population loss, it is present in a much higher proportion, with a ratio of about minus 5.5. This means that the number of deaths per thousand exceeds the number of living births. So this assumes a natural population loss, and then we didn't even talk about emigration. In order to see what the health status is, we need to look at death statistics, i.e. how the inhabitants of the settlements of Nagykunság and Tisza are dying and what life span awaits them at all. Therefore, one of the saddest things we can see in these figures is that the district of Kunhegyes always stands out. This is largely due to the fact that in this district there is one of the poorest settlements in the country, Tiszabő, and therefore one of its worst social settlements, we are also talking about Tiszabő. But there are also Tiszabura and villages along the Tisza, where unfortunately there are very bad conditions. If we have broken down statistics on these settlements alone, we can see that they do not live in much better condition than in some Central African states. Mortality is very high, they die very early, and the average lifespan of people born there is very short, which, by the way, is a great criticism of social inclusion and the management of social inequalities, as they are behind it. Yet, one of the most alarming statistics is pre-65, i.e. early death statistics. In this, the walks are well above the national average. Men, by the way, are led by cancer and then by circulatory diseases. In the alarming number of cancers, i.e. in early deaths before 65 years of age, men account for 36 percent of deaths, while women account for nearly half and 48 percent. In order to continue the statistics, in the diseases of the circulatory system, the district of Kunhegyes, Tiszafüred and Karcagi also show one of the highest incidences in early deaths. So the possibilities here are considerably worse than the national average. This means that people living here have a much worse life prospects in the field of health and health than in other parts of the country. It is also alarming, and I think it is one of the biggest problems of rural life, respiratory and respiratory death, which in many cases is 1.5 times the national average in all three walks. This can be not only from smoking, but also from the burning of solid fuels that everyone is sucking up on the streets in the fall and winter. In fact, there is a question of poverty behind this. So it is likely that the reason for this should be dealt with first. What we can say about the bad situation is that the reduction of smoking in these walks has not been successful, especially when public health screenings have essentially not been carried out. I say a very talkative ratio: in the work carried out in the field of health development, there were a total of 8 events in the area of Karcagi district, to which 539 people were attracted. It's almost nothing compared to nearly 3,000 in other walks. But what is the solution, too, to say it very briefly. Obviously, the GP system needs to be put in place, and outpatient facilities should be set up as close as possible. For example, it is important and important to put a great deal of emphasis on this in Kunhegyesen. Of course, money must also be put into health care at national level, and special attention should be paid to screening and a zero-tolerance cancer programme. Ladies and gentlemen, This will improve the health of the heart of the Great Plain. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-13-408	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr István Ikotity asked to speak after the next agenda with the title "István Ikotity." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-409	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I have received a citizen's request, not the first one, not the first one I will say in Parliament. This request could have happened anywhere in the country, either in Baja, my hometown, but not in Baja, but in Szekszárd and Zomba, the two settlements where it happened. The main character of the case is an 81-year-old lady and her daughter, who told this story. He asked me to mediate that the world of Hungary can hear what the great Hungarian reality is, so that as many people as possible can receive this information. The 81-year-old lady had an accident, fell, fell right on her leg with a hip replacement surgery two years earlier. After that, he was treated. I'd like to continue the story from there, when it was ordered for bondage on the morning of the next Saturday at 10 o'clock. Apparently, there was a problem with how to get to the county seat, to the hospital, to Szekszárd, 16 to 17 kilometers away. There was an answer to that by transporting patients. However, he was confronted with the fact that there was no patient transport on weekends. If, however, there is an injury in which a drain is constantly in place, and there is clotted blood being collected and excavated, then you can't mess with that, this lady needs to get to the hospital, she needs to get in for bandages. [[22.20]] What's the solution? Well, they finally solved it; the Hungarians were resourceful, they called the ambulance, they were reprimanded. But how else could they have solved it? The family didn't have a car, she didn't have a driver's license, they solved it eventually. The next time he was tied up, he was taken by the medical transport. They're not gonna figure it out. They had to wait nine hours after they tied him up to get him back. An 81 - year - old woman had to wait nine hours to get back to her home, the patient transport was so overwhelmed that it took so long. Luckily, he took some water and some biscuits with him. But how could this story have continued if he hadn't taken such care of himself? This little story is quite disappointing, especially since it's not a unique story, it's a world of everyday life. The person who told me this story asked me to convey that the reality that comes from televisions is the story that people are trying to believe, they're not going to pass. People see that neither the current government nor their predecessors want any real change. People are being chased into hopelessness, and this hopelessness leads to many diseases, leading not only to physical diseases but also to mental diseases, and this affects the state of Hungarian society. I would say to the honourable members of the government, so in the record, that this change is your main responsibility at the moment, and this needs to be changed, which has been brought about by the leadership of the last 27 years. Obviously, we don't expect much. What you've done to your government for seven years is not expected to change. We promise that "May Other" Politics promises that we will give people the hope that they can live a fuller, happier life in a country, and that such cases will occur in a smaller and smaller number until they are completely eliminated, because such cases should not occur in a decent country. Mr. President, thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-13-410	Thank you. In response to the speech after the last agenda, Mr Gergely Farkas came forward:. As a 21st-century party, Jobbik faces the new challenges of the 21st-century - VII. the title of the subpart. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-13-411	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the renewal of the domestic IT sector is not a party policy issue, but a strategic issue for the country, which is why I would like to talk about it today in my series of speeches. It is undoubtedly a fact that the IT sector has a huge role to play in Hungary, since IT is one of the most important economic sectors in the country and the second largest employer after retailing. The information and communication sector is one of the biggest added value sectors of the economy by paying more than EUR 1 billion in taxes on the Hungarian budget with a net turnover of nearly EUR 10 billion. IT is now also present in education, the labour market, health, e-administration, industry, security policy and many other areas. Therefore, on this basis, the IT sector should not be treated as an entity in itself alone. However, it is also an important aspect of the fact that rural cities also have the strength to maintain it, which, in view of the rural depopulation trend and the extent of emigration, can have a significant potential to stimulate and strengthen prosperity in the country and in the place. So what opportunities does the IT sector offer Hungary? Unfortunately, no government has dealt with this issue in substance in recent decades, which is also worrying because the country has fallen behind from the development of the IT sector and has thus missed the benefits it brings, the exploitation of opportunities. Just a meaningful contrast: while the 100 megabit/second internet access was made available to the entire population in Estonia by 2015, at this time the government was talking about the Internet tax. One of the direct consequences of this is the fact that there are still 22 thousand I.T. vacant jobs in the country in addition to the opportunities and expanding market in the IT sector, with a total of 800 000 programmers missing in the EU. This means that more than 22,000 people could work in Hungary with competitive income in the promising IT sector, but in relation to this workforce, we can now hear that they are bringing workers from Mexican, Russian, Serbian and all other countries in order to try to alleviate labour shortages in Hungary. I think that the renewal of the domestic IT sector is not a party policy issue, but a strategic issue for the country, a driving sector, and it is therefore urgent to renew it. The importance of the IT sector is also reflected in the fact that it accounts for 12 percent of GDP, and it is almost entirely domestic added value, thus the sector is still one of the drivers of Hungarian economic development. Jobbik, as a driving sector for IT, would provide significant tax relief for professionals in this area, such as the so-called Silicon Valley in Cluj and the establishment of IT economic zones, as we would like to keep Hungarian startup companies at home. We believe that criminal taxes which unfairly affect the sector must be implemented without delay and that innovation and research and development should be promoted more significantly, particularly in the case of smart devices and robotics developments. There may be an international example in front of us, Tallinn, as Estonia in many other cases: the Estonian capital called for the creation of a cluster four years ago, whose primary objective is to strengthen the export capacity of the IT sector, which currently accounts for 15 percent of Estonian GDP. Jobbik aims to train Hungarian professionals instead of calling and applying the current foreign workforce. There is a need for a radical new approach to the IT sector. It has to be seen that digitalisation and roboticisation are making it an increasingly topical area, and accordingly, training of professionals is not an issue that can be avoided. The fact that Viktor Orbán, who is a stranger to the world of using mobile phones, is supposedly already dealing with the problem of IT deficiency in person is certainly forward-looking. The IT development career start programme announced by the government is therefore to be welcomed. At the same time, there is also a need to face the situation of both agelessness and shortages in higher education and general secondary education. There is a need for appropriate and necessary regulations to respond to the rapid development of the IT sector by secondary and tertiary education. It is important to weed out old things from curricula and to develop skills instead of cramming. According to Jobbik, it is therefore necessary to teach the basics of programming within IT from primary school, or at least to improve this competence. Dear Parliament, CHAPTER XXI The mentality and governance of the century are known for its ability to quickly identify and respond to the challenges of the age. On this basis, support for the IT sector is a key factor. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-13-412	Thank you, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 10:28 p.m.]]
