u2017-04-04-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 13th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Ikotity will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Not a week has passed since the serious assassination in London, and the terror strikes again in St. Petersburg. In St. Petersburg, 14 people were killed and more than 40 were injured. We must therefore stand up again for the protection of democratic values against terrorists. The whole country sympathizes with the relatives and the people of Russia. I ask the Honourable Parliament to express our condolences with silent standing and to pay tribute to the memory of the victims. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the victims with a silent standing.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with speeches before the agenda. Member Ákos Hadházy, LMP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting speech:, Will we be a country without grandchildren? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-04-1	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, We've just heard of a barbaric act of terror, and it's always very shocking. Terrorist acts usually occur unexpectedly. There are times when you might suspect that this would happen, but most of the time it's unexpected. It is therefore very depressing to make a speech before the agenda at the beginning of this parliamentary day, because today we are quite certain that within these walls there is also a barbarity, a barbaric act of terror, if you will believe it will happen, because a university will be executed. [[Peter Cseresnyés: Unbelievable! Moore in the benches of MSZP.]] They're going to execute a university in cold blood and premeditated. Obviously, this is not the subject of the speech, but it is connected to this subject with a thousand threads. The topic of the speech is that the Central Statistical Office has not published data since 2013 on how many people leave Hungary to work abroad and how many people emigrate abroad. In 2013, it was said that there are 350,000 people who work abroad permanently. And Lajos Kósa regularly - I don't know where he gets it - speaks of 160,000 people. Obviously, there's a serious account here. In recent weeks, we have asked how many children have been born, how many babies have been born abroad, and this has been quite shocking. In the last six years, 78,000 babies have been born. Practically 15 percent of babies were born abroad. In very simple terms - obviously with a rough calculation and not a precise calculation - it can be calculated that if the number of people aged 20-40 in Hungary is 3 million, then if we multiply it by 15 percent, then we can talk about 450 thousand people living abroad permanently, and this is only people between 20 and 40 years of age, we did not even include older people; obviously quite a large number. Let me give you another number, which I ran into, the blood donor number dropped extremely, by 50,000. $450,000 down by $50,000. If we know that 5 percent of people of active age usually give blood and usually give blood twice a year, if we count back with 500 grand, we can say again that we have confirmed this number. It's a tragic number. In the past few years, 500,000 people have emigrated from Hungary, although they would like to come home, but they will not come home. This is particularly tragic if we also know that, according to demographic data, by the middle of the century, there will be 7.5 million of us, and by the end of the century 4.5 million people will be projected for Hungary. It is very important to know the reasons, and the reason is not just pay, not just wages. There are three reasons that are all linked to today's tragic event, the cold-blooded murder of today's university. It is related that people are fleeing uncertainty and unpredictableness. At any moment, the government can put something quite amazing and unimaginable into the red lines, such as the plowing of today's university. We could list a lot of them, which was when, one moment after another, decades of rights, the right to operate the tramps were taken away by the state and transferred to the hands of friendly people. The other reason is addiction. We feel addiction every day in Hungary. They've been training us from school to addiction. The new government is increasingly trying to raise subjects. He starts at school, we feel addiction in the workplace, and of course it's because political leaders want to see subjects - and not citizens - at the top of politics. The third reason that could now be listed is corruption, because they steal too much and too openly in this government. There's nothing else you can do. The government can't afford to lose. That's why we need to distract attention from talking about something else. They won another week, because it won't be about that again for a week, it's about a really amazing murder, the execution of the university. It's also wrong to have universities like this because you don't have a qualified person. It's no coincidence that they won't allow this 500,000 people to vote in a letter. They allow new-born people who know they're gonna vote for you. They won't allow these foreigners to vote in the letter. Thank you very much. [[9.10]]
u2017-04-04-2	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, who wishes to respond on behalf of the government. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-04-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You have said many things, honourable Member, some of them are real, some are unreal, but it is certain that the LMP has not outlined a vision or solution to any problems. You say that there are many young people beyond the borders of Hungary, many young people are working in Western Europe, but what kind of vision you would offer here, beyond raising taxes, and introducing much higher tax rates here in Hungary than those currently exist, as at present 15 percent, and you would raise the highest tax rate up to 40 percent, well, you did not give any answer on the part of the LMP. I do not think that high personal income tax is attractive to any young person to stay here or to move back to Hungary. If we look at the number of young people abroad compared to the Baltic countries, the Central European countries, I think you may be speaking in this Parliament on this issue, but in the parliaments of the neighbouring countries, opposition parties there could speak three times more sharply. In Hungary, this indicator is around 6 per cent, while in Lithuania it is not 6 per cent, but 18.9 in Romania, 17.5 in Latvia, 17,1 in Bulgaria, 16.5 in Poland and 11.5 in Poland. According to your logic, many people from the surrounding countries are going to work in Western Europe because in Hungary the Hungarian government wants to enforce Hungarian legislation with all higher education institutions and only to grant real degrees for real education; it would be a rather strange logic for you. As regards the figures, you can see, Mr honourable Member, it is common throughout Central Europe that many people from Central Europe work abroad, and even in the German Parliament, in the Bundestag, you can speak up and say how high the number of foreign jobs is. But there is obviously another reason for those working elsewhere from Germany and another reason for those working from Central Europe in Western Europe. However, you should also see that Hungary has far less emigration willingness compared to other countries, compared with neighbouring countries, from the Baltic countries to all other Central European countries, which means that this country is more attractive to its own young people, to its own citizens. It is obviously attractive for many to live in Western Europe, to work there. Many of them, of course, are disillusioned after a few years and return to Hungary, but this percentage is much lower, much lower than in other European countries. I think, contrary to your claim, that political stability is indeed an economic force in Hungary. You were talking about unpredictability. Honourable Congressman, Have you looked at the neighbouring countries, Central European and other countries, how many government crises have torn the stability there, how many times political relations have become unpredictable, precisely because there has not been a stable governance? While Hungary has a competitive advantage, it is a European competitive advantage that a stable alliance has led the country since 2010, it is a stable party alliance, and it is not coalition disputes that make economic relations constantly unpredictable. It's also a little weird for the LMP that while you're anti-immigration, you're pro-immigration. That's an interesting combination of logic. It's like it's not a matter of principle for the LMP, but it's what you can put in front of the government. What did the government offer young people in support of the founding of a family at home? I think you might be able to list a pretty long list for that. We can start with family-type taxation, in which basically a Hungarian family pays no taxes or contributions with three children on average earnings, the gross and net income is the same. This has dropped the incomes remaining in the family by more than HUF 20,000 a month, or we can talk about the Women 40, which is exactly the title of your speech,. It was the country without grandchildren, well, this is exactly what this woman is doing to help the grandmothers to help their children and take part in raising grandchildren. The extension of the child to three years, the transformation and extra support of the nursery; more than HUF 100 billion of nursery and kindergarten construction applications were written out and written out in the coming months to provide the grandchildren with a good accommodation opportunity. The extension of the free textbook and the free meal service takes the burden off the shoulders of families, and the CSOK offers housing opportunities that neither country offers in the countries of Western Europe. And that you say to barbarism that in Hungary we want to enforce laws on an equal footing with higher education institutions and we do not want to grant privileges to anyone, as it was during the previous governments, but that, under fair procedure, everyone in higher education is able to issue degrees under the same rules as in higher education. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I think that's unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-04-4	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member László Szakács, MSZP Group also applied for a speech before the agenda: who is responsible for seven years of failure? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-04-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, They've been governing for seven years, and I thought the time had come for us to draw a register, what you have achieved in health care over the past few years. They took over the helm in 2010. In October they came up with the program named after Semmelweis, which, from this point of view, is now more of a pompous title, which, from the perspective of seven years, is now more like a pompous title, that it is a resuscitation of healthcare, a healing Hungary. Let us see what goals have been set and what has been achieved from this. The immediate delivery of resources to health was a target. It's done, but it's tricky. [[9.20]] First of all, in the first year, you spent the rest of the money. In the second year, 300 billion forints of all disability benefits were pushed into the E-case, the health fund, and the money was increased, but the tasks were also increased, and they could not provide it properly. In the same year, they took 50 billion forints from drug subsidies, and they put this in the E-Casket, so it was an increase in resources, but the tasks also increased, of course they could not provide it properly. We are immediately changing the funding system, you said, but today we have the same performance volume limit system as before, and the general practitioners are financed on the basis of card money as they were, and since then they have been producing a deficit of a hundred billion per year. They also wanted to stop the deficit, so they planned two things to stop the shortage. One was that they wanted to do an immediate restructuring. In seven years, you have reorganized or terminated 1,500, one thousand and five hundred of the beds involved in the care of 70,000 Hungarian patients - so let's face it, it is not an obvious measure of the 1 500 with the restructuring and elimination of 70,000 - or a disguised withdrawal of funds, since all hospitals have been nationalised, and now you miss the 100 billion forints added every year by the municipalities to the financing of health care. At the end of each year, we argue that as long as you say that Hungary is strengthening, it turns out that Hungary's largest, most important sub-scheme, healthcare, is actually financed by Hungarian small entrepreneurs and belongs to thousands of people. The aim was also to improve emergency care. Even to this day, emergency services are still just a dream to get the ambulance out in 15 minutes, and emergency services have to wait for hours because there aren't a sufficient number of professionals today. You said that we needed to strengthen the role of GPs in basic care, and that there really was an additional resource for that. But they were able to do that even though performance was still deteriorating. There are 287 unfilled GP practices in Hungary today. 42 percent of our GPs are over 60 years old. And you have not been able to make this profession and this profession attractive even with money, because in Hungary it is perhaps 150 doctors who pass the GP exam every year. I don't think that's a success. And by the way, I think you have the biggest debt in the field of drug support. This is described in the scale of the aid. You always tell me how many medicines have fallen, but you never tell me how much they have grown next to them, and what are the medicines that are available in Hungary today. Ladies and gentlemen of the State, in Hungary today, the law states that if a new medicine, a new cure, has to be approved, the government and its organs must decide within 90 days, but in the case of medicines that cure cancer and improve life prospects, instead of 90 days, you have to take 45 months to do so. They've taken 45 months from the lives of the people in their time, for whom weeks, months matter a lot. Of course, give more money for health care, increase the wages of doctors, the wages of nurses, the wages of economic workers and technicians, but most importantly - and it doesn't even cost money, Secretarys of State - to comply with the laws that they have made themselves and to look for those responsible for these failures. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-04-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-04-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We learned from the MSZP that the MSZP opposes two things in health care: if something is the same as before 2010, or if something has changed after 2010. These two things can happen, which the MSZP opposes. There were certain things that we did not want to continue, honourable Member, after 2010. We didn't want to continue when you took away a month's wages for health care workers. We did not want to continue when you abolished 16,000 beds in Hungarian health care. We didn't want to continue what you did, with the removal of the 16,000 beds, with 6,000 medical workers laid off, and now you're talking about whether there are enough doctors while you've dismissed 6,000 medical workers. We did not want to take the path that would upset social solidarity, social shared burdens. It was your suggestion to introduce a visitation fee and a hospital allowance. We opposed these, and we managed to prevent them by referendum. The MSZP actively campaigned to make Hungarian health pay, remember that they carried out a whole referendum campaign so that all patients - young and old alike - could go to a doctor and pay if they were in the hospital for a day. This was the health model of the socialists. Compared to this, we set up a waiting list system with 70,000 patients at the time of setting up, and now there are barely 30,000 patients on it. We managed to reduce it by less than half, obviously not by accident, but by adding additional resources, many, many billions of forints, which we used to reduce the waiting list. You said that the health system would collapse when hospitals were under state control. They were state-owned and didn't collapse. What happened in the hospitals? Improvements were made in hospitals, in health care, worth HUF 500 billion, in hospitals' buildings worth more than HUF 300 billion, worth HUF 322 billion, but improvements were made in the hospital equipment park and instruments of HUF 104 billion. Mr President, unfortunately, this is not something that can be reported during your period. How good it would be if we competed on how much the MSZP has increased the wages of healthcare workers, and we could measure Fidesz-KDNP. It's just that you've reduced the wages of health care workers, and we've started a career. How good it would be if you could compete on how many hospitals you've built new blocks, renovated or built a heliport, and how much Fidesz-KDNP has built. But that is not what we can talk about, but we can talk about the fact that this 500 billion-dollar health development package took place after 2010. You also forgot to mention, honourable Member, about emergency care, that as of 1 January, emergency departments have double funding. And you also forgot to tell me, honourable Member, that you did not really buy ambulances for the ambulance service in the last years of your administration, but instead tried to shift rescue and sick transport to private patient transport, as you would have done with regard to the medical register. You are going towards privatisation and paid health care, saving money because you did not buy ambulances and, on the other hand, creating a market for paying medical supplies on the market. Compared to this, we have successfully replaced half the ambulances by now, and this will continue in the following. You mentioned that there are many shortages in GP care. These deficits have obviously been there for years, only you have neither launched a residency support programme, nor have you launched a practice contest, nor have you launched a residency application. Resident support has not been launched for young doctors who are thinking about wandering abroad. With this, we were able to encourage 3,500 young people in the public health system with a scholarship to a home vision. I think it's a very big success. If this had started in your time, there would have been thousands of doctors now. Of course, maybe you shouldn't have fired those 6,000 medical workers. Through the practice contest, we can guarantee twice as much in this year's budget that if someone settles in an empty practice, they will receive up to HUF 10 million of settlement and multimillion HUF of practice purchase to play a role in the basic supply. As far as the drug register is concerned, honourable Member, you know that by introducing the blind system and competing with the various suppliers on the active substance content, they do not see each other's offers, we have saved more than HUF 12 billion for the state register and the patients. As a result, there are some antihypertensive medicines and other medicines whose prices have decreased to a fraction. And I think I don't need to talk about the fact that we started a wage-raise program for doctors and nurses - the 200 thousand forints for doctors and 65 per cent for nurses - that the MSZP couldn't even dream of. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-04-8	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Apáti, Member of the Jobbik Group also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Jutna money for everything, but it should not be stolen! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-04-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik launched an anti-corruption billboard campaign. First of all, it is necessary to clarify the relationship between [[9.30]] In fact, it includes the entire Hungarian society, the entire Hungarian people, workers, the public sector, employees of the competition sphere, civil servants, civil servants, civil servants, farmers, agricultural workers, university and college students, parents and grandparents. They mean a much smaller circle, actually the Fidesz mafia, the Soros party that was created 30 years ago with the help of György Soros. György Soros had your leading politicians trained, then Lajos Simicska was extracted by Fidesz, Lajos Simicska created their economic and financial background, made a man of Fidesz politicians, and made Viktor Orbán master. This is about what the flow chart looks like, ladies and gentlemen. But let's see, turning back to our billboard campaign to see exactly what kind of visual representation we're seeing. The first unfathomable pair are the two real party pubs, H. Árpád and R. Antal residents of Budapest. They're close friends, they're columnists, they're friends, they go out together. They're also intertwined with the settlement bond business. In addition, Árpád Habony was photographed under rather strange circumstances, he could absorb a spooky-like substance for cocaine when he twisted his little nose strangely. Although it looks like you've met the 60th speedster. Well, that's got to be his own problem. He turns around the casinos, and it's possible that Uncle Vajna can sometimes rip out a portion of his casino business just so that he can increase his income in this way. He's a much more interesting figure, Antal Rogán, because he's a leading politician, Minister. His name has been in a lot of nasty cases. He was linked to László Vizoviczki and was associated with Tamás Portik. One said that he gave him 10 million forints of euros in his own hands, and the other said that he had to carry 4 million euros per terrace at the beginning of each season, he was involved in the V. district, downtown real estate poodles, and that he was also involved in the settlement bond business producing at least 150 billion forints of dirty money. This HUF 150 billion could have been put into the Hungarian state register, so there would be money for pension increases and wage development, but it should not be stolen. As long as the Hungarian people work honestly and honestly, they steal. Then let's look at the other variational billboard with M. Lőrinc and Viktor O. on it. With some humor about Lőrinc Mészáros, it could be said that corruption has become a national butcher in recent years, ladies and gentlemen. He is, isn't he, a universal person, a corruption polythesis, because from 400 million mineral water deliveries to MÁV, he has appeared everywhere, through the 6.2 billion-dollar horseyard construction, until the construction of 140 billion-dollar Ferenc Puskás Stadium, and looks like he will appear, at least in the next year. He's nothing but the Prime Minister's trustee and fundraiser. In fact, we have managed to figure out what the real purpose of the third Orbán government is, what the real significance of these four years is. The fact that Viktor Orbán should not only be the most influential but also the richest man - ahead of Sándor Csányi - in addition to Lőrinc Mészáros's asset management. This is the case and nothing else is the period 2010-2018, especially since 2014. So if we see Lőrinc Mészáros's career, a thousand times his fabulous wealth, then we can find out how to get money for health care, but we shouldn't steal it. As long as the Hungarian people work and get caught up in taxation, they steal. And there's the head of the family, the capo tutti The Prime Minister. You can't buy toilet paper for steering seats without his permission. So, if he didn't allow this, if he hadn't given the green light to these legislative proposals, which would allow legitimised corruption, the forms of crime that would then allow corruption that doesn't fit into the current legal framework, then, in practice, this corruption process could have been prevented from happening in the first place, or at least caused much less damage to this country. And not only does the name of Lőrinc Mészáros appear, and Árpád Habony and Antal Rogán and Vajná Andy, channeling the incomes of casinos, the incomes of casinos not affected by online cash registers probably into Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's fortune, but also the son-in-law of the nation appears here, who became known through rather interesting shops. So, ladies and gentlemen, prepare for the landlord's turn, to unlock the encryptions, the anti-corruption prosecutor's office, and not only the four gentlemen on the poster, but the entire mafia will be eliminated and accounted for. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-04-10	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-04-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to respond to your statement on the order. It is a very strange situation, however, that the party that completely conceals the total amount of support it received from its owner for the thousands of posters that you are talking about and with which you are attacking the government on order. Yesterday, their spokesperson said they weren't actually looking at the price of the posters, they were looking at the number of the posters. Well, how can you trust the country to a gang that orders things without even looking at their price? How can any public money be left to you now? ! [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] On the other hand, if you are really interested in the fate of public money and transparency, I would ask you to start working with your own partners. See, for example, how one of your mayors of the Allies got some tricky real estate, so scandalous, that mayor wouldn't dare set foot in the settlement, which, by the way, should be run. That's a method the home mafia could envy. [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] Then look it up next time, and if you can, tell me why it's possible that a large part of the right-wing faction spendings flow to a mysterious circle of entrepreneurs that probably don't even know it. I'm asking you if you know about this. Check it out. Then you can explain to me how an institution close to Jobbik has received 400 million forints of orders since its establishment. You know it's not about market orders. Then you can tell us where Béla Kovács got his sources, and how many more of these Béla Kovács are among your ranks. His statement is yet another proof that right-wing speeches cannot be distinguished from any random left-wing speech. That's not a coincidence, because you recently spoke about the fact that when you were called in to win the left-wing voters, you wanted to cooperate with them. Specially, it's interesting that the MSZP is standing by, but that's their job. One thing is certain, the left turn is another sign of Jobbik's identity crisis. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: We want to protect the country, not you.]] But the identity crisis has a much more serious, a deeper reason, which is that your party has been bought, and, by the looks of it, not too expensive, for a few thousand posters and a few hundred interview options. I do not envy you that your master will come up with something to drink, and the next day you will have to represent it in public, including here in Parliament. I hope, however, that the style, the blanket style, the threat represented by their master and their offspring will not be brought into Parliament. I would also like to tell you that the government and the Prime Minister cannot be pulled on a wire, unlike you, it has never been possible. That's why some people want revenge. We accept that. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] I'm sorry they bought one of those parties...
u2017-04-04-12	Congressman, this isn't a conversation. Secretary of State has listened to you, please do the same. [[There's a lot of noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] There is no dialogue, we are listening to each other according to the rules of parliamentary democracy. Thank you. [[Zoltán Készés: There is never a dialogue in this Parliament.]] Congressman, I'm warning you. Thank you. [[Thank you, Mr President.]]
u2017-04-04-13	Mr President, It also shows that Jobbik wants to bring in the same kind of blanket as his master and his offspring. We're not gonna let that happen. But I would also like to say to you that the Prime Minister and the government, unlike you, have never been able to be pulled on a wire, nor will they be. That's why some people want revenge. I'm sorry that they bought a party that had previously claimed to be national, and by the looks of it, they're making their members jump every day. I wish you a lot of spirit for this so-called work. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-04-14	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member Mrs Hoffmann Rózsa, KDNP Group also submitted a pre-meeting address on the day of poetry. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-04-04-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, For 53 years we have celebrated the day of Hungarian poetry on 11 April, on Attila József's birthday. All Hungarians, all cultural institutions, schools, kindergartens, young and old in the Carpathian Basin are moving to pay attention and ask for our unique national treasure. [[9.40]] It is therefore appropriate to give a few minutes of Hungarian poetry and poetry in the House of the country, so that the roughness of politics can be replaced by beauty for a short time. Do people need the poem today? - can be asked by doubters. Yes, we must, because there are always and there will be those who thirst for beauty, truth, artistic flashes of authentic sensations and emotions, the enjoyment of the unparalleled colors of our mother tongue, the break out of the experience world for a moment through the world-exploratory and creative mysticism of the language; all that arts can bestow upon us is poetry. Poetry tournaments,. The poem belongs to everyone, and similar country-going programs, joint recitations, school marathons, and other poetry marathons that extend into the night, and popular writing-reading meetings all prove that poetry is alive, creates community and six. What does Hungarian poetry teach us? Uninterested beauty, beauty, emotional wealth. The discovery and expansion of the depths of our mother tongue; historical, ethnographic knowledge; national feeling, patriotism; self-knowledge and human knowledge, world vision; divinity seeking and finding; admiration for our natural wealth; smiles or tears; playfulness, that is, the fullness of human existence. Poetry, or artwork, as Attila József says, is boundless infinity. It's infinity, because every single attempt of the reader comes with a new sense of consciousness. Infinity, because great poetry always inspires rereading, can't get enough of it. The language starts its journey and creates a country, offers a home for all of us whose mother tongue is Hungarian or almost its mother tongue. On the day of poetry, we celebrate poets, but I also celebrate in my heart those literary translators who, in an unheard-of way, transplant our rich language into poetry in a foreign language, in conflict with the impossible, that they also give gifts to those who do not know Hungarian. Our predecessors chose the birthday of Attila József in his poem Elya, a memorial day of Hungarian poetry, after painting the devastating misery of the dreary suburb, the depressing factory yard, looking below himself and millions like you, not pouring the wrath of bitterness on the reader, but, in a way, unexpectedly, he says: "Really / you can only smile here, you can cry here. / You can only handle yourself here, oh soul! This is my country. Yes, it is patriotism, which only true poetry is capable of so convincingly confessing. The Christian Democratic People's Party would welcome the more frequent appearance of the masterpieces of Hungarian poetry in the performance of our excellent artists, so that the poem really belongs to everyone. I would also like to inform this House that the Christian Democratic People's Party will initiate the launch of new poetry and poetry proposals at the associated NGOs. Yes, glory to Hungarian poetry, let the Hungarian poets live! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-04-16	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, who will answer on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-04-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, For 53 years now, we have celebrated the day of poetry on this day. Poetry obviously means something different to everyone, some people have a kind of mirror role, some people have a kind of self-expression or a way of getting to know their own emotions that can't be done elsewhere. It's a permanent experience for everyone beyond words, but I'd rather say emotional impulse, self-expression. That is why it is important for the Hungarian government to introduce young people to poetry, to familiarise young people with the poem, and to be as conscious as possible that young people will be absorbed in each verse, in its processing, and in the rest of their lives they themselves will take the poetry and the lyrics into their own hands and thus make their own lives more colourful and more experienced. That is why it is important that in public education the XXI. More and more verses, lira, are now available on the information tools of the century. The most valuable works of this are already in the hands of young people in today's education system, but the government is constantly supporting all such publications. I think we have a very busy year ahead of us, because the Hungarian government announced a Golden Memorial Year on the 200th anniversary of the birth of János Arany, which presents the poetry and artistic message of Gold, but also presents the language, the Hungarian language, poetry and the XIX. One of the richest Hungarian languages of the century, because there were many writers and poets there, who himself created a broad vocabulary and even created their own Jókai dictionary to make the posterity understand the exact message of his works, and to translate it into the language of the present age. Hungarian language of the century. In addition, I feel that John Arany's personality, personality, and moral example are to be shown and followed by many. For this reason, the government voted for a generous framework for the Memorial Year programmes of HUF 4 billion. In the framework of this, there will also be programs and renovations in emblematic locations, social media and virtual tours have been added to the Memorial Year by the government and the Memorial Committee, but of course the traditional cultural roads and traditional hiking opportunities have also been created on the trail of János Arany. The Golden Memorial Year must also take place beyond the border. We're preparing to renovate a cult of sorts locally. We hope that the reconstruction there, in a dignified way, can indeed make the Grand Salon the capital of the Golden Cult and the capital of the Hungarian language. This includes infrastructure improvements, restorations, museum developments. In total, we intend to raise this place to its worthy rank of HUF 165 million. Obviously, there are long-term programmes, not only this year. In addition, the National Cultural Fund aims to raise the light of the Golden Memorial Year with HUF 50 million of dedicated support. And I would note here that the Hungarian National Cultural Fund spent 4.2 billion forints in support of the literary sphere in 2011-2016. It is also important that the government voted 400 million HUF in support of Hungarian writers' organizations between 2014 and 2016, and this year the Literary College of the NKA can contribute 125 million HUF to the creation of literary works in Hungarian. They all prove how the government can and wants to strengthen the Hungarian language, culture and identity. The day of poetry is remembered not only here in Parliament, but obviously primarily in schools, libraries, cultural houses, theatres, there will be poetry, singing and a recitation contest. Together, the Hungarian National Theatre and the Hungarian Composers' Association announces the poem-clip competition, the national competition, where classical and contemporary poetry works can be interpreted in a new way, thus promoting poetry and poetry, as well as poems themselves, expressing the purity and diversity of language. The final will be on November 12, the day of the Hungarian language. The XIIth will be held in Tatabánya this year. Attila József poem, sung poem and prose-telling contest. It all helps us to live and strengthen our identity, to meet the arts. Now allow me to give you a few more numbers about the consumption, visit and strengthening of Hungarian culture in the 15 seconds at my disposal since 2010. Between 2010 and 2015, the number of participants in the programmes of public education institutions increased from 23 million to 35 million. Obviously, there are people who come here more than once. The number of theater visits increased from 4.6 million to 6.7 million. The number of library users increased from 2.3 million to 2.6 million, and the number of visitors to the museum was 9.6 million, so [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Hungarian culture flourishes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-04-18	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Németh, Fidesz Group, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs also applied for a pre-meeting speech on Ukraine's visa waiver? It's an address. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2017-04-04-19	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, a very significant development is taking place this week, as Ukraine's visa waiver will be negotiated by the European Parliament on Wednesday's meeting. [[9.50]] You will probably vote for this visa waiver on Thursday. Then another formal etaph is that the European Council agrees to this resolution and we hope that Ukraine's visa waiver will enter into force in June. There have been a lot of questionable voices surrounding this objective in recent months, but the Government of Hungary has been committed to fighting for this goal, and it is a great pleasure for us that it seems that the first tangible fruit of the European integration journey has come close to Ukraine. So this is not just a legal issue, it is also a decisive step by a country on the European integration road, or a stand for the sovereignty and unity of the country. I would like to stress that last week the Prime Minister of Hungary, Viktor Orbán, met with President Porosenko of Ukraine and personally had the opportunity to declare to the Hungarian Prime Minister that the sovereignty and unity of this country in its difficult situation are an important priority for Hungarian foreign policy. At the same time, we have also taken this opportunity to say that we do not see Hungary as opposed to the sovereignty and unity of the country, that it provides dual citizenship to Hungarians living in Ukraine, and that we do not see Romanians or Poles as opposing. Whether the dual citizenship of the Russians is contrary to the unity of Ukraine, and we do not have to decide that, but we are sure that Ukraine does not have to be afraid of Hungarian dual citizens. I welcome the agreement that we have concluded with the President of Ukraine that Hungary and Ukraine, following a possible legislative change, will agree that Hungarian dual citizens living in Ukraine can exercise their dual citizenship. Just as Ukraine's unity is not unlike the fact that they speak Hungarian, study in Hungarian, and the Hungarians in Transcarpathia require official Hungarian language use. We consider it important that any amendments to the language law and the educational law do not adversely affect Transcarpathian Hungarians. And as we wish to settle open issues that may arise with dual citizenship in a bilateral agreement, we would like to draw attention constantly to the fact that there is a basic treaty between the two countries, and this basic agreement is an appropriate legal basis for ensuring that both language and education rights are fully guaranteed by Ukraine to Hungarians living there. Ukraine is in a difficult situation, our biggest neighbour, but at the same time our most difficult neighbour, so we consider it important to support this country through European integration. Indeed, a very important result is the granting of visa waiver, but there are many other important milestones on this path. Hungary will take over the V4 Presidency from 1 July, and we also agreed with President Porosenko that we will use this V4 Presidency to help bring Ukraine closer together, both to the Central European Group of Countries and to the European Union. So our neighbor is a country that is fighting a war that needs us to be friends and neighbors. We are committed to this area, but we also have expectations, as it also means respect for certain values and certain standards that belong to the European Union. We trust that bilateral relations, relations between V4 and Ukraine will serve to strengthen these values throughout Ukraine, especially for the benefit of Transcarpathian Hungarians. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-04-20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr László Szabó State Secretary, Deputy Minister, will respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2017-04-04-21	Dear Lords of the President, Dear House, Hungary is indeed a very important economic, commercial and political partner of Ukraine, and it is in Hungary's interest that Ukraine be stable and strong. This is the only way to protect the interests of Transcarpathian Hungarians most effectively, and in a strong Ukraine minorities can also be stronger. The introduction of long-term national visas free of charge to Ukrainians last November also supports our efforts in this direction. In recent times, I and many of my colleagues have stood by the need for visa waiver for Ukrainian citizens in the European Union as soon as possible. The credibility of the EU was also questioned by the fact that the conditions had long been fulfilled by Ukraine, like Georgia, and it took a long time to make progress. Several EU Member States have been reluctant to relax regulation against Ukrainians, with particular attention to their concerns about organised crime and corruption. We have repeatedly made it clear that this is unsportsmanly and unfair on the part of the European Union and that these restrictions should be lifted as soon as possible. The European Commission proposed to lift the visa requirement for Ukraine last April, when it was officially recognised that it fulfilled the conditions for Ukraine. However, the process has stalled and slowed down due to political debates on making the so-called suspension mechanism more effective in the event of migratory pressures. That is why this debate has gone on for this year, because several Member States have made the visa waiver conditional on the effectiveness of this suspension mechanism. The legislation on making the suspension mechanism more effective was finally adopted in February, and so Ukraine's visa liberalisation was given the green light. Discussions between the European Parliament and the Council have resulted in a final agreement on the possibility for Ukrainian citizens with biometric passports, whether arriving for tourism, family or business purposes, to enter the European Union without a visa requirement for a short stay not exceeding 90 days in any 180-day period. The agreement must now be ratified by both co-legislators in accordance with the rules. The responsible commission of the European Parliament supported the agreement by a large majority on 9 March, will be debated before the plenary session of the European Parliament on 5 April, and the European Parliament practically discussed it on 6th. We are waiting for the Council to be strengthened, as Mr President said, and it is expected that the visa waiver will enter into force on 11 June, which we look forward to, with great anticipation, in confidence that we will also serve the interests of the Hungarians in Ukraine. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-04-22	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work by negotiating proposals. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CCIV on national higher education follows. a joint debate on the proposal to amend law in an exceptional procedure. The government referral is T/14686. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, In this debate, I give the floor first to Mr Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, author of the bill. You have the floor, Minister.
u2017-04-04-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the very beginning, it is in Hungary's interest to have as many autonomous, internationally recognised higher education institutions as possible, which promote Hungarian knowledge capital, the Hungarian economy and the growth of the nation. It is not in Hungary's interest, or even in its interests, to give way to international attempts to influence which, by circumventing democratic rules of the game, by taking influence from abroad with financial support, want to make a legally elected government or president impossible, to change the electoral will. [[10.00]] György Soros in Hungary and his organizations operating in the world are such bogus NGOs, and we are determined to prevent this activity by all legal means. Speakers of the Central European University ignore the fact that the Central European University is a public-acclaimed Hungarian higher education institution operating under Hungarian law, based on the decision of the Parliament. [[A statement from the opposition: That's right!]] Central European University, CEU, is a foreign higher education institution that is registered in Hungary, but is only a foreign higher education institution operating in Budapest. CEU is referred to as the latter foreign institution, which operates under the law of the United States of America but does not engage in activities there. [[Szabolcs Szabó: Akkre.]] Technically, the two universities are one and the same, on a single campus. The teachers and employees of CEU are not employed by CEU, but employed by the private university in Hungary and its Ltd. The process related to the official recognition of the operation of CEU in Hungary began in 1995 when the Minister of Culture and Public Education authorised Central European University as a foreign higher education institution in Hungary under the Higher Education Act. It is true that it has already come to light what makes a higher education institution that operates only in Hungary a foreign institution. There was then a political response; it is no coincidence that this issue will follow the story of the CEU to our day. In April 2004, the then Prime Minister of Hungary and the Governor of the State of New York signed a joint declaration setting out the intention of Central European University, registered as a university in the State of New York, but not operating there, to receive university status in Hungary at the same time as maintaining the status of American university. Under this agreement, the Parliament adopted on 21 June 2004 the 2004 LXI on the State Recognition of Central European University. Act, as a result of which the Central European University operates as a Hungarian non-state university in Hungary. He continues his training as a Hungarian higher education institution on the basis of the Hungarian qualification list and thus pursues Master's and Doctoral Schools. The special position of the university is the 2005 CXXXIX. In addition, the Commission considers that the aid granted by the airport operator in question constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute It is important to point out that this dual status was created on the initiative of the university. However, given that more and more foreign higher education institutions started training in Hungary in 2011, when the National Assembly accepted the CCIV. Act No.3 on Higher Education, the general conditions for this have been tightened and a 5-year review of its operation has been required in 2011. The start of training of foreign higher education institutions in Hungary is made possible by several legal forms. The first is when the operation takes place with an operating licence in Hungary. The other is when cross-border activities are carried out. The third is when a foreign institution launches licensing through the Hungarian higher education institution. The fourth is when joint training or dual training is launched in cooperation with the Hungarian higher education institution. As the regularity of these training activities should be monitored every 5 years in the review of the operating licences, these checks started in autumn 2016. The audits revealed a number of shortcomings, which is why the government asked for a report to be drawn up, which summarises them. This report was made public by the government. It is clear from this that the operation of foreign institutions registered in Hungary is subject to a number of serious irregularities. These can be integrated into the following groups. 1. The foreign higher education institution is not training within the appropriate legal framework; it has applied for an operating licence, even though it is only a joint training. 2. In fact, there is no cooperation and there is no partner in Hungary. 3. I miss program accreditation. This is particularly true of Central European University. [[Szabolcs Szabó: There is a different name.]] Don't talk to me, please, I'll listen to the congressman, okay? [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition's padanso. The president's ringing the bell.]] 4. The document issued by a foreign higher education institution is not a state-acclaimed degree, i.e. a university advertises it, but it is in fact only a course that is very easy to mislead someone - I see that it has succeeded in some Members - and this only comes out when someone in Hungary wants to acknowledge this diploma: it turns out that this is not a diploma. 5. A foreign higher education institution is not a recognised higher education institution in its country of origin, i.e. although its name is similar, it has actually ceased its institutional status as a higher education institution in the meantime. 6. The obligation to provide information in the public register is not fulfilled. In general, it is understood that student and training specific data are not reported. It is difficult to say today that Central European University itself does not know exactly how many students it has, there was no announcement, there was no subsequent replacement in this case. 7. The foreign higher education institution carries out unregistered training. At Central European University, we found 17 such training courses. We consider it critical when the foreign institution does not meet the basic criterion set out in the National Higher Education Act [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] , that is to say, in the country of origin, it does not qualify as a nationally recognised higher education institution and cannot issue a state-acclaimed degree of higher education in view of training in the territory of Hungary. This does not apply to Central European University. A similar serious deficiency is that the institution is a recognised higher education institution in the country of origin, but the training it carries out in Hungary does not lead to a State-recognized higher education degree. Much of the cases raised are handled by the education government on its own initiative, as can be seen in the report. In some cases, licences have already been withdrawn and in others new licences have been issued. The investigation showed that there were only one out of 28 foreign institutions where no irregularities or omissions were found. In many cases, these irregularities have led to the deception of Hungarian citizens. I cannot see it as anything else when it turns out that it does not actually result in a higher education degree in the country of origin, or when it will be obvious that the organisation acting as a higher education institution in Hungary has already lost its status at home, but of course it has not announced this and has not closed its activities in Hungary. Maintaining legislation is not impossible, and this applies to everyone, and we expect their compliance. The organizations of György Soros cannot be above the Hungarian laws. While we were trying to resolve the mess described above, it was also clear that while cooperation with the co-governments within the European Union is smooth, the situation in the case of higher education in third countries outside the European Union is different. There, we see the need for an agreement, a contractual relationship between the Hungarian and the national authorities, to be reached for the future. This not only allows, but also requires, a common view of training, the necessary administrative cooperation. This is precisely the most important point of the proposed legislation: in the future, universities outside the European Union can operate in Hungary if the country of origin and Hungary, by signing an international treaty, agree on the operation of that institution on a new site. This is not an impossible circumstance for international cooperation, and its purpose is precisely to strengthen relations between the two countries through the world of science and higher education. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: By shutting down a university?]] If the aim was to prevent third-country higher education institutions from obtaining an operating licence, we would be able to enforce this in the application of the current legislation. If both States support this cooperation, the higher education institution concerned may also benefit from it, since both governments can provide support to the higher education institution concerned. Such an international agreement cannot, of course, restrict freedom of teaching, institutional autonomy. The other side of preserving institutional autonomy is compliance with legislation. The Government of Hungary cannot conclude an international agreement contrary to the fundamental rights and principles enshrined in the Fundamental Law. I reject the accusations that the Hungarian Government would pursue this. Apart from the Hungarian laws and the Hungarian legislation, we have never in any way interfered with the methods and principles in which an institution organises its training, how it achieves its training goals. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You just got here! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: After 27 years!]] [[10.10]] This is true according to the Hungarian legal system, but also for training under the foreign legal system. This type of control and intervention is our legal duty. Central European University, or I don't know exactly, look into the fact that the leaders of the Central European University have recently declared that the new regulation is unacceptable to them. We believe that there is a solution to this problem, that we are facing negotiations with the United States Government and the federal government. Since four U.S. institutions are involved in higher education activities in Hungary, all of them are involved in the new regulation, we are ready to conclude an international treaty on these. We have met and discussed, contrary to any other celebrity, so far with the leaders of Central European University, the Minister of Justice himself has met the Rector, and the competent State Secretary, and we are willing to continue the dialogue as long as there are arguments, but we cannot do anything about the visions of freedom of teaching that are at risk. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What is the law doing here?]] The measures to be put in place are not or would not be suitable for this purpose, although they appear to be well suited to mislead and mobilise part of the international scientific public. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: In English: Everyone is stupid, only you are smart!]] The new Hungarian legislation does not affect at all the trainings of the Central European University under Hungarian law, recognised by the Hungarian Accreditation Committee for Higher Education, and it is therefore regrettable that György Soros, by mobilizing his international relations, tries to pressure the Hungarian Government, the Hungarian Parliament. This was also the case in 2005, then he personally asked the then minister to keep the lex CEU with the law on higher education, which was then adopted. I quote from the letter: "Dear Minister! Dear B. I was very pleased to learn that the Central European University I founded won Hungarian accreditation after a decade and a half. I know this couldn't have happened without your help. As chairman of the Maintenance Council, I come to you with a seemingly insignificant request. The new Higher Education Act, which already lists CEU as a Hungarian university, lists 2004/LXI among the expired laws. so-called lex CEU. We would like lex CEU to remain in force at the same time as the new Higher Education Act, even if this creates some redundancy. So what we are asking is that lex CEU should not be listed in the repealed laws. My colleague X, who will give you this letter in person on Wednesday, can give you a detailed statement of our position. My other colleague, Y., will also ask for informal support from the Prime Minister. Thanks to your support, György Soros, President of the Curatorium of Central European University welcomes you with old friendship. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Oops!]] It is not surprising, then, that György Soros immediately started a global discrediting campaign, in view of the regulatory intention that included his university. Yes, Honourable House, Van lex CEU, this was voted by the Hungarian Parliament in 2004. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Take this on, Minister.]] The Hungarian media, financed by György Soros, reveals the power of the network and shows how strong business circles we are facing, because there should be no illusions, the higher education business. It should be noted that other US universities did not stand up for the US administration, and did not mention them, even though there are three other such institutions, one of them being the one with which we did not find any problems. Interestingly, no other foreign university operating in Hungary has ever thought that the freedom of education will be violated if they comply with these rules. Today we are introducing new rules that are enforceable, give rights and not privileges, require effort or investment, but we are convinced that Hungary, the Hungarians, is in the interest of the amendment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-04-24	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee. Here you go, Congressman, in an eight-minute time frame.
u2017-04-04-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the individual house rules are 61. In accordance with the exceptional procedure provided for in Article 4 of the Act, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. The Committee submitted a bill amending the Act and a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 25 votes in favour against and 5 against, without abstentions. At yesterday's legislative committee, there were proposals for amendments from opposition parties to the bill. In essence, the amendments can be divided into two groups: in the spirit of constructivity on the part of left-wing parties that can be placed in a very strong quotation mark, they basically suggested that the bill be completely abandoned. In the case of Jobbik, the total internal confusion is noticeable, it seems that they cannot do anything, they cannot resolve the situation that their vice-president and the party's official position is far from compatible at the moment. [[István Szávay: Strange party...]] ; nothing shows this better than the fact that no minority rapporteur has been set up. Overall, the proper functioning of opposition parties as such does not really mean much, is not really taken into account as a requirement. This obviously does not have a higher education perspective, as it is obviously much easier to say that the CEU is to be abolished by the legislator. This is easier than dealing with what the real content of the bill is. In the course of the debate, it became quite clear, which we have now heard again in the ministerial expoze, that the issue cannot be simplified as it is presented by opposition parties, since it is two universities. The Central European University is an accredited higher education institution registered in Hungary, which is legally and legally established in Hungary, which is simply not covered by this bill. Of the two universities, Central European University, a higher education institution registered in the state of New York, which is not active in its country of registration, which, intertwined with the Hungarian training through an Ltd., is still issuing an American degree, thereby obtaining an unjustified, indefensible and indefensible situational advantage vis-à-vis Hungarian higher education institutions, which is clearly not tolerated. In the light of this, however, the bill seeks to address the situation of these universities established abroad. It is a university registered abroad that carries out educational activities here at home, but is not organised by an international contract. Therefore, the purpose of the bill is clearly to clarify and regulate the status of these countries in the framework of an international treaty. The proposal tabled, which is before this House, therefore serves this purpose. I ask this House to support the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-04-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Committee's opinion on minorities is presented by two speakers. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-04-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Indeed, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee there have been some serious criticisms; it can be summarised in a sentence that it is a pity to look at the professional background of this proposal, since it does not have it, only political considerations can be taken into account. What the Minister has said is simply not so; it is not; it is not only so factually, but it is simply his political motivation, the motivation to submit a proposal is quite different. We began by saying that, first of all, we did not receive an answer then or today, Minister, why this proposal should be discussed with Parliament in a special procedure. [[Zoltán Balog: Because the school year begins at the beginning of September!]] Because if this problem existed for 27 years, because this university has been founded for about that long, then why wouldn't this have tolerated any further debate. It was probably not only a matter of urgency for you, but also the fact that you can squeeze the story into a time frame of two to fifteen minutes, so that the factions will have this much to offer on this subject, which is not a frivolous topic, to express their views. [[10.20]] The opposition parties were united in their views at the committee meeting that this proposal was about two things. One of the lessons to be taught by George Soros, who is now represented by the government as the biggest scapegoat in Hungarian politics and public life. There have been cases of disability pensioners, there have been banks, there have been multinationals, Brussels and the others, now György Soros. It's about teaching him a lesson through his university. The other is that an educational institution which is not a government-friendly institution can, as far as possible, be destroyed as quickly as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, The reasons for these two points have also been made. One is that it is interesting that this proposal is being submitted precisely in this climate, when, once again, György Soros is the current scapegoat, although not only have you had no problems with this institution for 27 years, you have been ruling for seven years, and interestingly, the Orbán government has not had any problems with the operation of the CEU in the last seven years. The other, Minister, is that in such cases it is customary to begin sitting down to negotiate. You referred to this, although, by the way, I have not heard any of the CEU's authorities confirm that they are actually sitting down to discuss this problem. If you sit down to negotiate, then the way to do this is to try to find a common solution. For none of you have disputed that this is a valuable institution, providing valuable knowledge, a serious intellectual workshop, which is in the national interest to retain. If that is the case, wouldn't it be normal for us to try to solve the problem together and give it the right lauf to allow the institution to comply with these requirements? Compared to that, what happened at the Legislative Committee meeting? The entry into force of 2018 in autumn was amended to 1 January 2018 so that this institution could not by chance comply with it. Well, Minister, since we have divided the time frame, I will therefore put forward further arguments in my speech. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-04-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the other minority speaker, Congressman Gábor Fodor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-04-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, On the issue of the Central European University and CEU and on the proposal submitted, we opposition representatives were of the opinion that this debate was in fact unworthy and unworthy because we are talking and arguing about an institution that represents a serious value in Hungarian higher education, as thousands of young people, tens of thousands of young people from Central Europe, Hungarians, come here, bring their reputation to Budapest and Hungary, who are being trained here, many of them have become the leading experts in the political life and economic life of the neighbouring countries, and they all received their degrees in Budapest. In 1995 when I myself, as Minister of Education, gave permission to operate at the Central European University, this is exactly what we expected from the Central European University to bring inspiration to Hungarian higher education, bringing in foreign professors and teachers who help to improve the quality of Hungarian higher education. And that's what happened from the Central European University, so it's a value. I would also like to state that it should be clear that the Central European University, CEU, operates legally in Hungary, which we are debating, is a proposal that is in front of us that would change the current situation. We are fighting to ensure that this does not come into force and that it does not enter into force, because then this university will really be in an impossible position. It works legally, by the way. By the way, the Hungarian Accreditation Committee accredited the training there. Moreover, it is internationally recognised, since it is very well represented in international comparisons, one of the best universities, is ranked 42nd among the institutions that teach politics, for example. Thus, the Central European University provides a particularly high-quality education. And while we are talking about what Minister has said, what is the interest of the Hungarians in this regard, what is the interest of the Hungarian people: it is in his interest that the Central European University works. It is not in your interest not to have an institution here, it is in our interest to come here; to bring the good news to the country; to obtain a degree here; to obtain a degree that is an American diploma, and also a Hungarian diploma, because this is the attraction of the Central European University. This is the essence of it, not its sin and its fault, it is its essence, therefore it is interesting, therefore important, therefore the Central European University is special in Hungarian higher education, which is why it is necessary to fight for it. It's the pride of all of us. If Hungarian students have an interest, if the Hungarian people have an interest, it is that this university works and not make it impossible to operate. Because this is the requirement for open thinking, high-level higher education. Of course, it is possible to ask why this attack is, why it is against the Central European University. And we know that there are really political intentions behind it, which in itself is neither bad nor good, and we must always look at the results of what makes it good or bad. I think that this intention is wrong because it doesn't matter what the cost is to achieve political will. If we intend to keep the power, on the one hand, and on the other, to keep the pro-government voters in a prosthetic mood to go to the elections and have a temper, I think that price is too much. Because this goes against the interests of Hungarian students, it goes against the interests of Hungarian people, because it destroys a Hungarian higher education institution that provides high-quality, important, irreplaceable education, as László Sólyom, former President of the Republic, the Academy of Sciences and others, professional colleges have said, they stand up for the Central European University, because it is important to have the high-quality education that students receive there. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-04-04-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position in a 15-15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr Vinnai Győző, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-04-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! I have listened to the minority opinion, and I would just like to respond in one sentence, because I would like to present professionally what this amendment is about. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP, among other things: What professionally? How? Professionally? Shame! The president's ringing the bell.]] Because it's a question of higher education, it's a shame to make such a big deal out of it. I understand what you're doing, of course, but if we're going to talk straight, we're not bringing in lex CEU, but we're trying to eliminate lex CEU in 2005 so that no one can stand above the law. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] No one should enjoy privileges. I hope that my fellow opposition Members agree that the laws must be respected by everyone, as well as those of higher education. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Yes, which has already been accepted. The one in force, that one. Not the one that's not in effect yet!]] Even the Soros University. This is a condition of the rule of law. And it's not a professional question, it's not a quality. Of course, they create value in the universities, Minister said that we are very pleased that the higher education sector operates in accordance with the higher education strategy and we have excellent universities, we have excellent accreditations, we have excellent qualifications. So this debate, in my opinion and in our group, is about the intention to correct irregularities by amending the Higher Education Act, because the disorder cannot be maintained in the higher education sphere. Let's get to the point. According to the current rules of the Higher Education Act, which was adopted by the Parliament in 2011... - I note that this bill was agreed under the leadership of the then EMMI, and the foreign universities, higher education institutions that held training in Hungary knew these conditions, so what we heard in the expoze, we adopted at the end of 2011, the national higher education law entered into force on 1 January 2012, the five years passed, and the Education Office started the review in autumn 2016 according to the rules in force. This is exactly what has happened now, five years have passed, and the Education Office has prepared a report to the government on the operation of foreign higher education institutions in Hungary. This document also became available to the public at the end of March. This, we could say, but we no longer know whether foreign higher education institutions in Hungary are a routine procedure. I have the list here, 28 of these institutions are located in Hungary, and the report of the Education Office covered all of them. Of these 28, 21 are located within the European Union, within the EEA, part of the European Higher Education Area... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] Congresswoman, I will listen to you calmly... [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: No way! He's not gonna say that!]] You're not gonna say that? You want to restrict freedom of speech, Congressman? [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Sit down! Interjection from the ranks of independents: Shame on you! The president's ringing the bell.]] So there are 21 foreign higher education institutions operating within the European Higher Education Area, and there are seven universities, which are also in the United States or the Far East. We know from the report that one of the 28 institutions concerned has fully fulfilled the conditions laid down in the law. By the way, I'll tell you your name, this is McDaniel College, U.S.A. However, it is not that they have fulfilled precisely or not, as there are minor irregularities, administrative problems, but also more serious infringements, which have led the Education Office to withdraw the operation of 4 institutions. I note in brackets: Central European University, CEU, Soros University were not one of them. There were irregularities in the CEU, including I saw three in the report, but anyone could read it: they did not have a programme accreditation, they carried out non-accredited training and they did not fulfil their reporting to the higher education information system. But these, I think, can be replaced, and after the adoption of the law, this is also possible. [[10.30]] Dear House, I would like to underline that today's debate, as much as the opposition would like to make it sound hysterical, is not about what I would like to make it look like. [[Lajos Korózs: How to destroy CEU! Yeah, that's what it's about.]] that there is a violation of academic freedom or institutional autonomy in the university, but that everyone must abide by the laws, no one can be above them, even if he is a billionaire. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You have to do it first.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Then you can keep it! Noise from the opposition benches. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] If you listen to me, but... [[There's a lot of noise in the opposition benches. Interview: We do not listen! Ready Zoltán: What should we pay attention to?]] I'm very optimistic about it. I spent nearly three decades in the college world. [[It's a lot of noise. Shoutings: You don't look it!]] I was an instructor. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell. Lajos Korózs: Aren't you ashamed? Cries from the benches of the MSZP: Shame on you!]] , Leader...
u2017-04-04-32	Congressman, excuse me for a moment. Fellow Members, please...
u2017-04-04-33	I've seen the accreditation procedure... I've lived in university, college integration, I've been part of several institutional development plans... [[Lajos Korózs: You were nothing! You're part of the villainy!]]
u2017-04-04-34	Congressman Korós, I'm warning you. First warning!
u2017-04-04-35	...but it never occurred to me... [[There's a lot of noise from the benches of the MSZP. Lajos Korózs: Shame on you!]] But it never occurred to me that our institution should not comply with the legislation in force. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy:]] And we are above the law. [[It's constant noise. Agnes Kunhalmi: You can't explain this! Lajos Korózs: The word "powerful" causes problems! The president's ringing the bell.]] Not to me. [[A lot of noise from the opposition benches.]] Back to the presentation, it's not specific... [[Dr. László Kács: Miracle the details!]] ... does not specifically apply to the Soros University, no matter how it is said, but applies to the Soros University. [[Lajos Korózs: Don't lie!]] That we want to eliminate irregularities. I would also like to make it clear to you and the public that the Central European University, which operates in Budapest, is a privately-owned Hungarian higher education institution, which is recognised by the Hungarian Parliament. The Central European University in partnership with the private university was founded in New York, but this is a foreign higher education institution, which is a Hungarian-registered higher education institution operating only in Budapest. As we heard from the Ministerial Expo, in April 2004 the Prime Minister of Hungary and the Governor of the State of New York recorded in a joint declaration that CEU would be granted university status in Hungary at the same time as maintaining American university status. On the basis of this agreement, Parliament shall: [[Congressman's having a sip of water. Incoming from the benches of the MSZP: Now, one more! From Jobbik's benches, Hop, Hop!]] On 21 June 2004, it adopted the 2004 LXI on the State Recognition of the Central European University. Act, as a result of which the Central European University could act as a Hungarian non-state university in Hungary. And so it will be, among the institutions listed in the Higher Education Annex, the Central European University is there, and I think it will still be there after the amendment of the law. However, it has to be said that the Central European University and the CEU are, from a legal point of view, two separate institutions. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Why didn't Butcher buy one?]] The change does not affect the Central European University, it will not cease, it will not be excluded from the annex to the Higher Education Act listing institutions. He is in training, has excellent teachers, students, and employs his teachers; while the CEU is registered in the United States, while there is no education, no students. This problem, namely that there are no training courses in the mother country, was already in 93 by the then Minister for Education [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: Why should I?]] Ferenc Mádl suggested that he had been raised before. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: No accident!]] Therefore, it is not necessary to say that this is now being brought here; we have just arrived here to discuss this problem. [[There's a lot of noise from the opposition benches. Crying out loud: Slowly! The president's ringing the bell.]] It's a double identity, it's a competitive advantage. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Of course!]] Because in addition to the Hungarian diploma, an American will be issued. This is discrimination for Hungarian universities, because they only issue one degree. I don't know if you've read the statement of the Hungarian Rector Conference. The Rector's Conference said that they are pleased that the regulation is being made and that they ask that this should not affect the quality of education and education. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Listen to them!]] university education. But it doesn't matter! [[There's always a lot of noise.]] So the leaders of Hungarian universities expect this amendment to happen. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You are worse than the Soviets! You're filthy communist dictators!]] Dear House, The current rules do not require an interstate agreement between the country of origin of the university outside the European Economic Area and Hungary that both States are committed to the functioning of the foreign higher education institution in Hungary. Thus, it is also possible to start phantom universities, which try to attract students with sound names. [[Dr. László Kács: But there are teachers and students! It's a lot of noise.]] I'm telling you, I'm going to listen to you. [[Dr. László Kács: Defeat your demons!]] I'm even more determined to listen to you. The proposed amendment would address this problem and require the conclusion of an interstate contract for universities outside the European Union, thus eliminating the functioning of foreign higher education institutions in Hungary, which their country of origin does not even know about in some cases, and which provide training that does not comply with Hungarian legislation. Thus, the current change states that the foreign university is only entitled to issue two Hungarian or foreign diplomas, provided that it carries out an actual educational activity in its country of origin, both legally and physically. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Cancer method!]] Therefore, these universities should ensure the continuation of genuine training giving a diploma in the country of origin. If the proposed conditions will not be met in the future, let me put it in a quotation mark,....the mere risk that they will not be able to give a foreign degree, only Hungarian. It is not necessary to conclude an international contract within the EEA, because of the similarity between institutions and training structures in the European Higher Education Area, it is not necessary to establish an equivalence criterion. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, I can only express my hope that our faction will support the amendment of the law. [[Dr. László Kács: Surprisingly!]] As the Prime Minister said yesterday, we are facing negotiations, and good intentions will lead the Hungarian government. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: The ceiling is falling!]] Let's hope the United... [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] We hope that the United States government will also be able to conclude an interstate contract. [[Dr. László Kács: Otherwise, Trump wouldn't want to meet you!]] I don't understand this nervous mood. In the decades I spent in higher education, I felt that Hungarian higher education performed excellently. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You're Communists! Dictatorship!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-04-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, because the basis of meaningful dialogue is to listen to each other... [[It's a lot of noise. Ágnes Kunhalmi: Dialogue with Dictators? Ready, Zoltán: Shame on you!]] Congressman, you have your chance if you wish to speak. So I'll take that. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I don't have it! It's a time frame!]] Let's listen to each other with proper respect. [[Nándor Gúr: Time limit! It's constant noise.]] I now give the floor to Congressman István Hiller, Vice-President of the House, lead speaker of the Socialist Party. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Now shout!]]
u2017-04-04-37	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary. In this debate, our opponents are Members of Parliament, with whom we have sworn to represent Hungary's interests. That is why I propose that we consider this as a standard in the debate on this bill, this amendment. [[10.40]] In this, let us conflict our views, and let us look at the similarity and the difference between our opinions. First of all, I have to say that the operation of a high-quality institution with a high labour market value, with a high level of recognition in Hungary, is not only in the interest of Hungarian higher education, but also of the whole country, this country. The fact that such an institution does not work in Hungary is not in our country's interest. Therefore, all the attacks against CEU, while I have not heard any arguments which would deny that this university operates at a high level, the domestic and international recognition of the teaching and research activities carried out there is high, that the degree obtained there can be well placed in Hungary and outside our borders, so please, if this university does not operate in Hungary, this is against the interests of the country. With all due respect, the bill, the amendment that has been put before us here, is against the interests of our country. That's the most important thing to say. We have sworn together to protect Hungary's interests and to serve the interests of this country. Now, this bill is not for the good of our country, it's against it. Otherwise, if it would be such a burden for a country to have the current CEU operating in this way, then tell me why 14 Nobel Prize-winning scientists have raised their voice against the bill you have tabled. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's right. Noise in the benches of Fidesz.]] Why have over a thousand professors signed it now? Why does the Vice Rector of the University of Oxford think that this bill is wrong, by the way? But I'll turn it around: if it's such a pregnant thing, tell me why Vilnius is coming to Lithuania immediately, the three cities of Poland [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Our friends.]] And this morning, the president of the Austrian Rector's Conference, who says that he is pleased to receive this university under the same conditions, is the rector of the University of Klagenfurt in his own city, but if you think so, in Salzburg or Vienna. If this is such a bad thing, if it is such a burden, then how can some shadow power otherwise succeed in deceiving 14 Nobel Prize winners, a thousand economists, plus the leaders of three countries who say that they would gladly take this burden on themselves. Please, think about what you're doing. But in this debate, our debate partners are not only Members of Parliament, but also representatives of the parties belonging to the European People's Party. The European Christian democracy, to which I do not belong, but I respect and respect its representatives. And since they also teach pathistics on the CEU - this is a discipline that deals with the teachings of the Church Fathers - there they teach a law that was spoken by the late Roman emperors and which, in many respects, went through political history. That law was shorter than yours, it was actually bolder, a little more lenient, it was made up of one sentence, it sounded like . non licet esse vos. - you shouldn't be. When there was no argument, they couldn't possibly say anything else, that this law was just to stop you from being. Honourable Members of the Council and Members of the Council. I say with great certainty that if the CEU were not involved in this round, this bill would not be made. The professional motivation for this is zero. Zero! Everyone who cared a little bit about higher education, you know; Mr Vinnai is right to say that irregularities that occur here occur in all accreditation tests are such or similar. Please, someone who's been to college and not just listening knows that the accreditation board's investigation is to find out what's legal and what's not legal. However, there are undoubtedly irregularities in telling an institution, my university, the ELTE, as well as the University of State Secretary, the University of Arts that there are errors, misunderstandings that you should correct. I report that, on one occasion, there has been no amendment of the law before this House. Never! If ELTE, if the University of Debrecen, if Pécs, Szeged, Miskolc has made such a mistake, you have never, ever once thought that a law amendment must be made. The reason for this amendment is one and only: you want to eliminate the CEU. And it's not professionally motivated, it's politically motivated. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP: That's right! Németh Szilárd István: It's not true!]] I would like to ask you with respect that the problem that is being brought up here, in this bill and in amendment, is not among the ten most important problems of Hungarian higher education. The value of the diploma, the structure of higher education, the question of autonomy, the wages of higher education workers, and dozens more, I can say the questions that are twenty times higher than this case, which are brought here solely and specifically because of the CEU, with political motivation. I must say that the real and real purpose of this amendment, this bill, is not about higher education, it goes far beyond that: it is about the freedom of education. You, honourable Members and Members, are trying to violate the freedom of education with this bill, and you will be insulting it with your vote. I must say to you that there cannot be a complete misunderstanding if, in the most diverse parts of the world and in Hungary, the country's oldest, continuously functioning university, ELTE; another foreign-based university, Andrássy University; the Corvinus, which concluded an agreement last week, whose leader, rector, is not so far from you, has just given his signature for cooperation with the CEU - all of a sudden they have lost their minds from Oxford to Budapest, professors, university leaders, from the former President of the Republic to an army of instructors, and think that your great bill is otherwise wrong. At the same time, I must say that the amendment of yesterday, which made the condition even more stringent; I understand this mentality - but I will never agree with it, never, but I understand - that they think that the more pressure is needed abroad and in the country, even tighter. This turned out great yesterday because the TAB managed to give a majority opinion on a wording which, I must say, is virtually impossible to achieve. The amendment is not, by any chance, about all foreign universities or foreign universities, but - and here I quote the amendment, because it is worth talking about this, if we are already trying to talk about this political law on a professional basis, on the force of force - he says that it is possible to continue to operate if, in the case of a federal state concluded by the Government of Hungary and the Government of the State in which the foreign higher education institution is established, if the central government is not entitled to recognise the mandatory scope of the international contract, an international treaty based on a prior agreement with its central government. Let's translate: first of all, let's try to expand our horizons to see that the United States of America is a federal state. [[10.50]] In this case, if we see this, we know that when we are talking about a state university with a European head in Central Europe, it is natural for us that this is bound by the state and the government on behalf of Hungary. In the case of a federal state, education, including higher education, is completely different, and if we say that Kent State University Ohio, University of Pennsylvania, University of Kansas, they are not federal institutions, but institutions of the federal state, Ohio, Kansas or Pennsylvania. And you want to make a preliminary agreement with the federal government to establish a law in force for an institution in a federal state that the federal state is otherwise entitled to. In English, two degrees were registered. In order to simplify, you want to have a preliminary agreement with the Trump Administration on a federal level, and then, since, according to American law, he cannot conclude an international agreement in the case of a university - which is why you say that a preliminary agreement has been made - a written agreement with the Trump Administration will be concluded by 1 September, and then an agreement with the federal state, in this case the State of New York, will be concluded. September 1st. Please, wouldn't it have been better to say by Thursday? It would have been more practical after all. Let's not waste time, and it's summer. With a broad perspective, we are also trying to see that there are relatively few places in the world where university education is conducted in July and August. It happens, but it's not quite typical. Therefore, the six months you say are completely unnecessary and a pity. Then you know what, it would have been more fair to say that we do not want to see CEU in this country. Go to another country according to our system of values. According to our system of values, we do not want to conclude an international agreement, because we impose conditions that are otherwise unfulfilled after six months. Then it would have been nicer to say that we would legislate this amendment on Wednesday, and that the deadline for the conclusion of the international treaty is Thursday at noon. At least that's a clear speech. Stand up a little more bravely. Because this is, in fact, a politically disguised political motive, just as the amendments that have been made so far are, in fact, disguised only what they want, or at least according to their political intentions, they believe that it is worth accepting. We will not agree on this, next week or next year, before the elections, during the elections and after the elections. So what I'm saying to you is that your professionally disguised political law is harmful to our country. It is not simply within the framework and boundaries of higher education that it causes outrage internationally and in Hungary, but also to all the reasons why it is worth politicalising and for which it is worth taking an oath as a Member of Parliament in the interests of this country. It's a bad law. It's a law against the interests of our country. There's nothing to change because it's bad the way it is. The idea is wrong, the wording is wrong, and the whole intention is detrimental to Hungary. We therefore ask, we demand, with our vote, that we express, and, even after today's vote, we will represent that this law should be withdrawn now, and that it is worth doing a better higher education for the sake of the country, and that it is worth it and a duty for all of us. Now take it back while you still can. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-04-04-38	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. [[Moore, noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I would also like to ask my fellow Members that, as we have just heard Vice-President Hiller, we should also give respect to our fellow Member. Thank you. Congresswoman!
u2017-04-04-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to express the position of the Christian Democratic People's Party on bill No 14686 in the next few minutes. I trust, as our side has listened to the solo before me in a civilized and silent manner, perhaps I will be honored, since the importance of the case is worth so much. All the more so, because I learned from psychology that anger, sarcasm, yelling doesn't strengthen the arguments of the yellers, but rather weakens them. I may not even fill my 15 minutes, I trust you will listen carefully. I will try to sum up how we see this bill presented. As is known, in 2011, Parliament created the National Higher Education Act. This law laid down rules on the functioning of foreign higher education institutions, which were more serious and stricter than before, and, for reasons of legal certainty, it also provided that these institutions, as well as other institutions of higher education, should be reviewed every five years and co-ordinated that the review should be carried out by the Education Office, and this review is essentially about functioning and not about what they teach in each class, what values they convey. According to the law adopted in 2011 and entered into force in early 2012, the five years passed last year, and the Education Office started reviewing these institutions, as we have heard from several speakers before me, and this review found serious irregularities in the operation of 27 of the 28 foreign universities. What I said in the introduction, and what is known, does not mean that because some universities have worked 27, 20, or I don't know how many years ago, and there have been irregularities so far, it could have continued to work that way. This is a wrong position, because our whole life is seeking security in both private and public life, and one of the foundations of this, its guarantee, is precisely the rules. And as I said, the time for this review has come. That is why I am debating the position that one of the Members who spoke before me expressed in relation to one of the universities, CEU Soros University, that it functioned legally, because it did not comply with the laws laid down in the 2011 Act. Of these 28 and 27 higher education institutions, seven institutions in four countries are more closely affected by the finding that their operation does not comply with the rules, as the rest can be linked to the Member States of the European Union. Therefore, according to KDNP, this amendment of the law, the bill, serves the right purpose, because this goal is that higher education institutions, whether Hungarians or foreigners, operate transparently in accordance with known legislation, so that there are no prerogatives. Because the world that we knew well, which had ceased or ceased since the 1990s, was not good when the prerogatives determined what was free and what could be. Minister, in his speech and in his expo, he read a passage of a letter which pointed out that I did not know this letter, but I heard it just now, but I was shocked to hear it - that the world does not seem to pass when some people are asking for rules to be evaded on the grounds of prerogatives. This is not acceptable to KDNP. Therefore, the amendment is supported by KDNP, which identifies its objectives. Because it creates such adjustment points in higher education, equal conditions, trust, transparency and the abolition of prerogatives. The whole of the rules and their compliance have an impact on our lives, and it is the same in higher education. It is no coincidence that education always stirs up moods, a lot of anger, emotions. After all, let's just look at some examples of how to get into higher education, what is the value of a diploma, how to get a job, how the student is progressing in higher education, and how it affects the lives of families, people, students and parents directly. Like the quality you receive in the higher education institution, it always stirs up a debate here and in private conversations about the value of a higher education institution. I don't want to take sides on this, and the KDNP is too careful to do so. I would just like to point out that there are a wide variety of rankings and that there are mushroom-like organizations that make the rankings. The other day, I also read a ranking that lists incriminated CEU as their thousands of shares, and others put it at the forefront. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Where can I find this list?]] These are conflicting news, yet somehow higher education works and thrives. I'm not questioning the existence of rankings, I just want to say that it would be better to be more careful with them. [[11.00]] There was a great fling following this amendment of the law, and we saw that on Sunday a lot of people went out on the street. Perhaps the most frequently said call was to fight against freedom and the crushing of freedom. I do not see this relationship between the bill and freedom, because the amendment does not affect the science taught in foreign universities at all. Because science is truly sacred and free, it is the autonomy of universities. This has been the case for many centuries - it is not affected by the amendment of the law. Since higher education has been rated, it started at some point in the early 1990s in the history of Hungarian higher education, since then the certification body, the Hungarian Accreditation Committee, has been careful to ensure that it does not apply its own criteria, but that it is based on science's considerations that one or other higher education institutions operate in an appropriate capacity and in an appropriate manner. This issue, this position, which is correct and followed around the world, is not affected by this amendment. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Therefore, I must say that the autonomy of the university is not linked to this amendment. Because what is this bill about? Right here in front of me, I'm quoting some of the issues that, I think, guarantee security, transparency, the same principles of operation. For example, it's a matter of name use. We are well aware that the name indicates exactly what the wearer represents, what he carries. It is therefore appropriate to regulate that the name of the higher education institution should not be misleading, should not create a false impression of the institution's activity. I only read this one sentence. It's a condition we can't object to with common sense. It is also right that, when it comes to the operation of a foreign university in Hungary, there should be some kind of international contract guarantee behind it, because the government and the Parliament can be assured that it is indeed in the interests of the Hungarian people, as one of them pointed out to me. It reinforces the review every five years; this is also a condition that can only be supported. The timing is a little far from me now, because that is exactly what I cannot judge. But I trust that universities that have a lot to replace can do this. This has been done in Hungarian higher education. I myself worked in higher education when the so-called Bologna system, which was quickly introduced, forced to transform the entire training structure, and with work until dawn, but for weeks, just the other day, we were able to do curriculum descriptions at night to get accreditation. A lot of people have forgotten it, but what you really want is what you can do. And we also experience that if we sometimes give a long deadline to do a task, we push it ahead of us for months, then we do it at the last minute, but we do it. For example, the best evidence for this is, at least in Hungary, the question of tax returns. Well, the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the bill because of what they said, but I'm going to add a few more arguments. It does not apply to foreign universities in EU Member States. It does not apply to universities operating in the Carpathian Basin, established in Hungary or operating with Hungarian support, which support the survival of Hungarians abroad. A positive resolution, of course under conditions, was also formulated by the Hungarian Rectors' Conference, which also shows that these representative bodies and representatives of Hungarian higher education do not want certain higher education institutions to have privileges. They therefore side with the amendment and hope that the conditions, the administrative obligations, will be met by those who have to do it. And the Association of Students' Local Governments took a somewhat similar position. And that's what common sense is all about. The Christian Democratic People's Party considers the philosophical issues of freedom to be a model of regulated freedom. I am aware that not everyone thinks so, but a believer of shoreless freedom. Please, we live in a democracy, everyone can have different opinions, KDNP represents this. Thank you so much for listening quietly. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-04-40	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann. I salute my fellow Members, Minister and Secretary of State, and give the floor to Mr István Szávay, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-04-04-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary. We are stunned to observe both the Soros Foundation and György Soros's recent naughty attacks. With the support of the young generation and the professional college movement, he has actively contributed to a more free and open spiritual atmosphere in Hungary. In view of the need for higher education, we believe that newer generations will also need the unselfish support that the Soros Foundation will hopefully continue to provide in the future. We object to the involvement of the foundation in political battles. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Maybe some of them are sitting in your fractions who still remember these lines. I'm not saying that by any chance. I suppose you've figured this out: it's a statement from the Young Democrats Alliance on September 28, 1992. You, my fellow Members, and speaking specifically to you, Congressman Németh, Vice-President Németh, who accuse Jobbik of giving up their principles and values and of being inconsistent with the fact that we have faced ourselves before, this Fidesz accuses us, this Fidesz, you. If there is a Soros university in Hungary, then there is also a Soros party in Hungary, and this Soros party is you. Fidesz owes its very existence to György Soros and the support of the Soros Foundation. In my speech before yesterday's agenda, I have already made it very clear, I believe, what our group thinks of this bill. Let me now explain this a little bit more, and let me also make a few suggestions on what the Parliament should be dealing with in this regard or rather in its place. [[11.10]] It cannot be emphasized enough, I cannot stress enough how far from Jobbik's thinking and how far it has always stood, unlike you, everything that György Soros represents, which is represented by foundations and institutions linked to György Soros in Hungary. We regard it as particularly harmful, and unlike you, who started as a liberal party at the time, we have always considered the liberalism that undermines our values, the gender madness that attacks our families, the cult of deviants and the unlimited respect for the various other things. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Deviance from your mouth!]] That's a long way from us. But we are equally far from the Bolshevik type of power that you have established here in recent years, and what we can now see from you on this proposal. As long as we are talking about this matter, we do not need to talk about the fact that education is on the verge of bankruptcy, health care is in ruins, wages are low, hundreds of thousands of people are leaving the country, not just young people, but older people, trained and unskilled, because there is no money for these sectors. There's no money because you, your oligarchs, casino barons, landlords and all kinds of shady, deceitful advisors are stealing this money. We need false news, we need continuous mobilization, we need to keep the electoral camp together, we always have something to fear, we always need an enemy image, we always have to point to something, we don't have to deal with the real problems of the country, this is CEU right now. It doesn't matter who we're talking about anyway. I'll tell you one more time, we're not on CEU's side. Right now, the CEU is the victim, next time it'll be different. What we can't accept is that in a few days, you're gonna want to take me down and destroy a long-standing, long-standing institution. You can do this to anyone else from here on out, you can do it. Otherwise, let me tell you that Congressman Hiller is right: they are even cowards to say that that is what this is about. Well, then say that's their problem. That's our problem in terms of values, in every way, we don't need this institution. It was pathetic to see the struggle that you, including your prime minister, started with this subject, as you began to do. I don't know what you're talking about. For days, they couldn't sweat out what was actually illegal and what was cheating about this whole thing. It was pathetic to see Szilárd Németh's production at the end of the week in this regard. [[István Szilárd Németh: Hurt, huh?]] - Yes, yes, it's you, Congressman. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: It hurt everyone!]] - who the journalists demanded to talk about fraud and tell us what kind of fraud you're talking about, and if you're aware of fraud, you're going to press charges, and you're going to explain that you're not, that's some other kind of fraud, but what kind of fraud you're talking about isn't exactly revealed. [[Németh Szilárd István: The journalists did not demand it, but your master did!]] Speak to him, Congressman. I'd be happy to argue with you, by the way. Nor do I find it unimaginable that I should put a little introduction into this story, because it would not be too far from you, that it is not only a hysterical distraction and a distraction, but that you may have just started some cheap blackmail in the background. The relationship between the United States and the Hungarian government is not uncomplicated, there have been stories here that have burdened this excellent cooperation over the past few years, whether it is the ban cases or the bribery case of that particular food oil company. I would not, for my part, consider it unthinkable that you may be right for those of you who suspect something clever about this, that you simply try to extort some concession or some kind of agreement from the United States in the background. This ideological war, which you are conducting against the CEU, or are only halfway through, because you really don't have the courage to do so, and by the way, and let me come back to this for a sentence, is completely discredited by the fact that the entire staff of Fidesz was raised by George Soros at the time. Hungary has seen such things as the political history of the world, that there are certain parties that change, move from right to left, from left to centre, become a little more moderate, a little more radical, a couple can change in 20-25 years, but there are few parties in Europe and the world that change in 25 years that remain completely unchanged in the process of keeping their staff in line with the same people that Soros started at the time - you, whose first photocopier was purchased by the Soros Foundation. Your spiritual mentor, by the way, was Miklós Vásárhelyi, who, as governor of Soros in Hungary, paid the scholarships to the leaders of Fidesz at that time. This is about Miklós Vásárhelyi - let me say this for a sentence - a former cancerist journalist who approved of Rákosi's terror and was one of his spiritual supporters, working for the Free People. Let only one sentence stand here from him, written about Cardinal József Mindszenty in the Free People on February 6th, a pathetic worm, a frightened villain, an exposed Tartuffe stands before the court. Public opinion, all well-hungry people turn with disgust and contempt away from the terrible shame of human subconsciousness embodied by Mindszenty. He's not a hero, he's the most miserable criminal they've ever seen. This man was the starter of Fidesz, these are the spiritual roots from which you are feeding, my fellow Members. Zsolt Németh or Szilárd Németh - I'm sorry, I'm bringing in Congressman [[Németh Szilárd István: Infél.]] - against your lies, my fellow Members, it is not the Jobbik that is full of Soros agents and Soros hirers, and George Soros did not set foot in Jobbik, but Fidesz is where he hasn't taken it from to this day. Minister, Secretary of State, anyone on the government's side, please tell me how Zoltán Kovács is a government spokesperson. ? How can you be a secretary of state? Did you graduate from a fake university? It's not a fake university. What did they say? [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Phantom!]] Phantom University, thank you very much to my fellow Members. Lajos Kósa - who also did not graduate from university, add parentheses, although this may be irrelevant from the point of view of the subject - speaks of a phantom university. If CEU is a phantom university, then Zoltán Kovács is a phantom doctor, then Zoltán Kovács should either resign from the government spokespersonship if this is the government's position on CEU or return this phantom doctorate. [[Sándor Burány: And the money!]] Don't you think these two together might not fit together? Or there is the case of Secretary of State, Mr Berzetei - we have already mentioned it, but it cannot be said enough, this shows exactly your total inadequacy in this whole story - you are paying the CEU the annual tuition fee of HUF 4 million to Deputy State Secretary Ákos Berzetei. Is the training at CEU good? Is that okay with you? Is this worth HUF 4 million a year to the Hungarian State Department? [[Interview from Jobbik: The Hungarian State.]] And the Hungarian state? How long are you going to pay Secretary Berzetei your $4 million tuition fee, Minister? I wonder if you'd answer that. [[There's a mobile phone voice: Intercoms, among them: Soros is on the phone! Defiance.]] If you would just spend half as much time - and believe me, it would be much better for everyone, for you and for your popularity - to govern much better than it is for this matter to be dealt with in the Hungarian Parliament right now! Besides, we're not gonna do that, I'm gonna reassure you, but if we're gonna steer, we're gonna deal with people's problems, and we're not gonna make enemies in every bush looking for someone to jump on. In the fact that we are now looking at this proposal from a slightly professional point of view, you may have a point of view, and we ourselves do not doubt that institutions financed from abroad [[There's a cell phone on the phone.]] - It's not mine. [[István Szilárd Németh: You have a phone call. Zolán Balog: Soros is looking for you! Defiance.]] yes , Soros calls [[Defiance.]] - on the functioning of foreign-funded institutions could be discussed and debated, but that is not a dialogue, what the Minister said. Minister, you are now saying in your exposé that you are open to dialogue by voting on this proposal in three wards. I don't know what kind of dialogue this is in your formulation. [[Interview from Jobbik: Fidesz dialogue!]] It's such a fidesz conversation. We have no other way of thinking about it, we can look at this question. There could be some issues that could be tightened up. It could be examined how compatible an institution is with national interest, it does not necessarily have to talk about a higher education institution, we can even talk about civil society organisations, because in the next few weeks, this will be the other issue that will dominate it, civil society organisations financed from abroad. We can talk about this, see how to tighten this system. We can also examine - that I should refer to the registration of Vice-President Toroczkai before they confront what he said - whether national security interests, let us say, are affected by the operation of such an institution. If national security interests were damaged, Mr Németh would probably have come up with this, or we would probably know about it, since they are making the arguments against CEU feverishly anyway. As Vice-President of the National Security Committee, the Member would certainly have information on this. We haven't heard of that yet. [[Németh Szilárd István: That is not the question. The question is higher education.]] These issues could be discussed, but not in such a way that you want to bring forward such a proposal in a day or two, without asking anyone, in any meaningful agreement with anyone. [[11.20]] Not to mention that serious irresponsibleness, and I would like to mention this once again, because this was already included in the speech of the pro-government speakers, although smearing the essence of the question, what precedent you are setting for the anti-Hungarian forces in neighbouring countries. It's bullshit, coming with that, it's too bad there's no Rózsa Hoffmann or Congressman Vécsey, none of the pro-government speakers, anyway. It is completely irrelevant whether the Sapientia Hungarian University of Transylvania and the Partium Christian University are registered or not in Romania, that is not the case. It is not about the CEU, either, where and how it is registered, you are doing a political hysterical act. If the anti-Hungarian forces want to perform political hysteria in Romania, they will be able to do so even if we happen to know that Sapientia and PKED are registered in Romania, that is true. The Romanian state does not add a banit to the operation of these universities. This also raises serious questions about the financing of Hungarian education, and we have criticised this on quite a number of occasions. It is not certain that the good national policy stance is that the Hungarian state is constantly taking on state tasks and funding for minorities, but whatever, closed by parentheses. A man can stand up in Romania and strengthen the voice that Victor Ponta struck a few days ago, who said, "Woe, but this Hungarian regulation is good - he rarely praises Hungary, fellow Members - he should also bring one in Romania that is financed from abroad, and it doesn't matter where it is registered... - don't come with this fake, please! This is a serious irresponsible and a life-threatening threat to Hungarian institutions abroad, if you simply want to attack a Hungarian higher education institution because it is financed from abroad. And then I was just talking about Transylvania, not the situation in Transcarpathia, the war situation in Ukraine, how strong nationalism and chauvinism are there. Obviously, we can not only talk about universities in Transylvania, but we can talk about the fact that with this attitude and with this example-status, you can also put the operation of the Hungarian University of Transcarpathia of Rákóczi Ferenc in jeopardy. In relation to higher education, they are talking about the quality of higher education, the disadvantage of competition and so on. The problems of Hungarian higher education and its competitive disadvantage should not be solved by killing a university who, for some reason, does not like us or is in our political interest. The fact is, let us start by saying that Hungarian higher education is now operating on about half as much money in real terms during your conservative, Christian, national governance as the education government of the SZDSZ government used to. Teacher wages are humiliatingly low, for 10-15 years there has been no substantial increase in student standards, student benefits, no money for normal operation, high-quality education and research. We should start with this, Mr State Secretary, to remedy the problems of higher education. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] we should talk about real issues, real problems, not fake questions, or touch them in this way. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-04-42	Thank you very much, Congressman Savay. I now give the floor to Mr Bernadett Szél, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2017-04-04-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Lucky or I don't know how unfortunate I am that as the last lead speaker, I have listened to everyone, every faction who has ever had an opinion of lex CEU, and let me begin by responding to one of the most facial fidesz sayings I think it has been said here, why you created lex CEU. You believe that privileges must be abolished. So we are at the point where Fidesz-KDNP claims that we need this bill in order to abolish the prerogatives and to be equal, so to speak. This is said by the faction and its coalition partner, who practically introduced the system of personalised legislation in Hungary. This is a fidesz mode: lex Ildikó Vida, lex Schmitt Pál, lex RTL Klub, lex Andy Vajna, lex György Matolcsy, lex István Tiborcz, lex Heineken, and here is the lex CEU, preparing the lex civilians. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot rely on any prerogative in this country to be abolished, because it is you who legislate the prerogatives for certain people and for others that make laws to kill these people and these institutions. From here on, please do not stand up and ever refer to this again in your stinking life, because you are not the party and not the political community who still has any moral credibility about Hungarian voters! We are here in the debate of a law that is basically a witch hunt against the CEU and at all against the freedom of teaching, against independent, autonomous, critical thinking, and at the same time a nurse's bath, because you are using the time available for your faction to explain the inexplicable. The darkest commie times come back to Fidesz by shutting down a university. That's the truth, you're shutting down a university. This was done by your communist ancestors when you thought you were young democrats, and you should acknowledge that you have crossed a red line that is being crossed by the 21st century. I didn't think they'd ever do it. I would like to point out that yesterday's TAB meeting, if possible, pushed this whole story deeper into the ravine. It's a pathetic game you're playing, and now this whole story is on international level. Your prime minister is acting like a puffy, pissed-off pocket dictator, and he seems to need Donald Trump now. He wants to make a preliminary agreement with him, whatever it is that he wants a preliminary agreement, but he needs New York, because he needs an international treaty, just to make this story easier. Let everyone around the world see who the Jani is, that Viktor Orbán is the Jani. But I ask you, what will happen to these people who study, teach and research there? What will happen to the Hungarian people and what will happen to the Hungarian interest, while Viktor Orbán is now playing Jani in the international field? ! Gentlemen and ladies, You're taking revenge on nothing but our own young people, hitting your own country! Isn't nothing expensive to you? ! People Learn at that school [[Németh Szilárd István: In CEU?]] others are searching there, others are using their library, researching it. [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] Yeah, maybe I wouldn't even hire you there, because you don't even speak English enough to enroll there. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP. Delight, applause in the ranks of Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]] I believe that this is disturbing and frustrating for you, but we in this country are serious about the need for a multitude of people who have been trained here. The fact that you are disturbed by free education and free university is a fidesz virus that we do not want to spread in this country. This law is not only directed against the CEU, but it is directed against the freedom of virtually all universities, it undermines academic freedom, independence and autonomy, and I would like to state to you that it is unacceptable that Fidesz-KDNP has dealt with one single second of trying to explain this, because it cannot be explained what they are doing. Not only does the horse's foot hang out, but the horse hangs out in this case. I'll start with the first step you'll never be able to explain. They have been using the instrument of raw force policy, so they are pushing this law through the Hungarian Parliament in a few days, practically in a day, and I would like to stress that there has been absolutely no consultation with those involved. I come from a political culture where they say nothing about us without us. What kind of political culture do you come from? [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Rákosista.]] I think you're coming from the commie culture, and you're going to stay there until we get you out of here. The thing is, Minister, I don't know how you can look anyone in the eye in this country. You practically refused to sit down under the leadership of the CEU, and you refused to do so. They've been trying to find you for weeks, they've just been trying to get in touch with you, what the hell is going on over their heads, and Secretary Palkovic said they didn't contact CEU in advance because there wasn't time. But you set the time limits, of course there was time. If the law had been passed later, there would have been time to negotiate, but you didn't want to negotiate with the people involved, that's what happened. The second element I would like to highlight is that here the red line has been massively crossed. The fact is that so far, until 4 April 2017, we have not seen that autonomous and independent educational institutions could have been the victims of a political attack in Hungary. The thing is, this just happened, so let's write this down in the chronicles, and let's just say Fidesz-KDNP did this. At the same time, I would like to point out and point out the possibility of moving forward that this country still has a fundamental law. There is not much in it, and there is nothing in it that should be included, but there is an article 10 in which it contains the fact that Hungary guarantees the freedom of scientific research and artistic creation, and the freedom of teaching within the limits set by law in order to obtain the highest possible level of knowledge. So the thing is, what you guys are doing is going against the Fundamental Law. The fact that you are conducting an open political attack on a university is contrary to the Basic Law, bringing Hungary into the ranks of countries such as Russia in Putin or Turkey in Erdoğan. Let's see what kind of music you're following, because it's worth looking at. Let it be said here, among the walls of the Hungarian Parliament, who exactly was copied by Viktor Orbán, who is playing Jani in world politics, while not paying any attention to what is happening to Hungarian students and Hungarian people. Let's see what happened to the European University of St. Petersburg. I looked it up, I'm telling you. [[11.30]] This is the successful private university at the top of the international ranking, and it stabbed the authority there precisely because it raised CEU Orbán for independent, critical and autonomous thinking. And this, of course, is dangerous to all people who want to eliminate autonomy, so those who want to control everything in the country. Well, there's also an education office there, and this educational office has found that the school has violated the rules on the functioning of universities. Then came the pro-government press, so we are there, aren't we, in Russia, they willingly assisted in discrediting the university, they said that this institution does serve foreign interests, and the process is now at the point of withdrawal of the university's license, and education is currently being suspended. What happened in Hungary? First of all, we did look back, in the government's foot media, but it was reported in Origo that the investigation material of the Board of Education had revealed serious irregularities, I quote, in connection with the operation of the Soros University. That's the news from the Origo. Soon, the Secretary of State for Education announced that, according to the OH study, some foreign universities operate illegally, often illegally. Then the proposal to amend the Higher Education Act, which we are discussing, was added to Parliament's website. So what happened? You didn't do anything but copy the puppy pattern. Leave me alone with this blinding, and be kind to have you here after seven years of government, suddenly remembering that the OH would do such an investigation. Hell, they watched Putin do it, they copied it. [[Mónika Dunai intervenes.]] But there's also Erdoğan. Congresswoman, press the button, you have the opportunity, you have the time. But there is also Erdoğan, right, he started a political cleansing in his own country, suspended all the university deans, shut down 15 universities, imprisoned university students. I think it's the same logic: abolishing, banning, shutting down everything and anyone who thinks differently doesn't have to argue with anyone here for the world. You want one thing: to keep quiet in this country. Well, we're not gonna assist you with that. I'd like to make it clear that the Board of Education, I wouldn't really bring it here, so the Board of Education has identified minor administrative failures. And it was right there that they were being repaired, so from here on out, the process was being improved, and they replaced what the OH thought there was missing from the system. And then the government rhetoric came along, and they told me that there was a huge fraud going on here, and, oh, my God, from now on, this university is a fraud, and I want you to follow the law. So, I would like to say that the logic of law and even the laws of physics require that all institutions be judged according to the laws in force. That's not what you did, you're in a loop of time, you've played "Back to the Future," and you've been told that we're gonna make a law that this institution doesn't comply with, and we're gonna use this future law to tell you they're cheating, and then they're gonna lock you up, or Trump's gonna sit down with us, and Putin's gonna pat the Prime Minister's book. So, what's this? What's going on here? ? And then here they come with these sublime lyrics, and I had to listen to the fidesz and the KDNP for 30 minutes, who talked about the need to clean up here, and there's chaos. [[László Szászfalvi: Thank you for listening! The president's ringing the bell.]] Hell, no, it's chaos. There's education here, there's students here who study, and there's teachers who teach. And that's what's bothering you, because I think you, I'm serious, would like to silence everyone who has a different opinion than your Prime Minister. We don't have that kind of culture. We care about opinions, voices, we have debate, we don't want a Hungary in which someone tells us where it is, and everyone goes after it. And we don't want students who believe everything, we want students who dare ask questions and can think critically, autonomously. I believe that Fidesz-KDNP does not want to go on with this, because this tradition does not correspond to your commie ideology, but we want such a Hungary. And I would like to make it clear that even the Prime Minister has been involved in lies, right, he has also proclaimed the CEU to be a fraud on the basis of a non-existent legislative provision, and he says that the CEU cannot be above the law. Only - for God's sake! - this law that the CEU should be on right now, we haven't even made it yet, it's being debated, and it's being voted on in a few hours. So, what are you doing? I'm sorry. ? And in the middle of this show, which they're performing here, there's practically nothing else going on but putting their own petty political concerns ahead of the public interest and massively ignoring national interests. I would like to state that you are a government that has withdrawn HUF 200 billion from Hungarian higher education institutions in recent years, so since 2010, you have only exported 200 billion from higher education. [[Zoltán Balog: How can you read all this nonsense?]] In the meantime, you are talking about trying to bring home young Hungarians. Does it not occur to you that young Hungarians might leave this country because they do not have a perspective, do not have paid jobs? Isn't there a university where they can sign up without their parents getting their pants on this story? What are you talking about? I'm sorry? ! If they took the students' case a little seriously, the education issue, the young people's case, our country's case, they wouldn't shut this university down, they would give that 200 billion back to Hungarian higher education. And right, the LMP is the party that has been all over the country, and we campaigned everywhere to ensure that the rural colleges and universities are not abolished or paid, because the Hungarian people are not in a position to pay these tuition fees that you have paid. I was standing there in Komlón, and a young man complained to me that since Pécs paid for this specialty, he couldn't go there, he couldn't study, and now he's going out to London because he can't make a living out of the 70,000 forints he gets, and he can live out there, and he can still sign up for some kind of education. So the thing is, this is what's going on in this country. Because you can't afford to come up to Pest, buy a train ticket, buy a rent, and buy yourself everything else. [[Szilárd István Németh: You can buy a flight from London...]] What about these stories, Your Honour? I'm sorry the Minister went out because he has to answer these questions. If Fidesz were to give a little thought to the future of this country, he would be a little interested in what will happen to youth and what will happen to future generations, then we would not be talking about what universities are being closed down here in the Hungarian Parliament. And I would like to say that you are the dream killers, this is the real dream killer move you're doing to declare war, I don't know, now that you're listening to the United States - George Matolcsy here - and half the world, but practically our own young people. Who are they building on? I know young people don't really go to Fidesz, but don't be so angry with young people, don't be so angry with young people. Hungary needs these people, we need students, we need universities and we need independent education. Freedom cannot be talked about in a country where the freedom of education is at risk, where politically motivated attacks are in place, and ministers and ministers of state are trying to explain the inexplicable. We can now be expunged targets, all of us in opposition, and we also see that the opposition media is narrowed. Technically, we see that you have now crossed so many red lines that you cannot talk about democracy in this country. Because today is the CEU, but tomorrow will be a different time, specifically tomorrow the Civil Code will have its five-party, the CEU's case will be everyone's case from here on out. I would like to say that the CEU is also at stake here, but it is practically the issue of freedom of teaching that is at stake. The stake is whether we want to live in a country where the power does not tolerate diverging opinions, where you silence everyone who disagrees with you, and where sooner or later, everyone will live, and everyone will feel on their own skin that Fidesz-KDNP is walking through everyone just to enforce their own small-time political interests. Who's gonna get hurt because they're gonna pull his college out of him, who's gonna get fired for his opinion, and who's gonna get kicked out because they're gonna shut down his newspaper that he loved to read. So from here on out, I can tell you that the CEU case is everyone's case in this country. We strongly protest against this constitutional violation bill, which you put on the table, and you can be sure that we will turn to the Constitutional Court, because we still have important issues in this country, and there are still important people in this country: in particular, every Hungarian person you have given up on is important to us, which you have given up on once and for all, it seems. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-04-04-44	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have the speech of the first independent Member to speak. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a total of eight-minute time-frame for independent Members to speak. I therefore give the floor to Congressman Szabolcs Szabó.
u2017-04-04-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, not as a Member of Parliament, but as a university professor in the first place. Interestingly, there are many of us here in this House, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Vinnai has spoken, Mr Pósán, if I understand correctly, and I think first of all that we should consider our actions on this issue in such a way that we think about what is working for our own narrow area and what is not working for us. I think it is amazing that you are able to stand here, Mr Pósán has not yet spoken, but I think you will be able to stand by it, and you will be able to do something that I know you will not agree with, because anyone who has socialized at university cannot agree with such a move, such a bill. It's very clear. For some reason, they're willing to do this. [[There's a grumble from the ruling parties.]] If I were Mr. Secretary of State, I would have resigned a long time ago, otherwise, instead of bringing in this proposal with your name. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Now, let's be clear: on the one hand, the government is really sneaking, because while the serialisation is going on, they say it has nothing to do with this story, but of course it's about that. Well, we can understand a text that we read, that's what it's all about. It is necessary to look at the whole point of the amendment of the law that, in the case of institutions outside the EEA, which are also foundational institutions, how the issue of employees' permits is tightened up, the existence of an interstate contract is required and the rest. [[11.40]] If we put these elements together, there is an institution to which this will apply, the CEU, not even the Andrássy University, will have a significant impact on only the CEU, done, period. That's what it's about! I appreciated János Lazarus when he brought the lex Heineken in here because he said that people, this is what we have, yes, trademarks are the answer. He wasn't messing around. Let's do this in such a spirit, and then we'll be able to talk sense. The second fundamental fact is that both the CEU and the Central European University are legal and regular, so remember this. What the Board of Education report revealed is administrative inaccuracies. Congressman Hiller said it very well, and we know that, who have worked, we are working at a university, that it is an ordinary thing at a Hungarian state university. They are not like this, they are much more serious - you have to see, for example, that when accreditation reviews are carried out, most of the Hungarian doctoral schools receive a qualification that is equivalent on condition, because they do not have enough staff members, they do not have a good training program, or they do not have quality assurance plans or programmes. There's a doctoral school that's gonna be canceled anyway. No one has ever thought of saying, on the basis of this, that we should terminate the Hungarian state university. I personally participated in the fulfilment of a reporting obligation at ELTE when we ended up filling out 40,000 pages of paper, a wheelchair, or what had to be taken into the Education Office. I'm sure we've made a lot of mistakes. There was also a deficiency obligation after that, but we didn't get a law-modernator that the ELTE would close the gates. So, let's all remember that CEU and Central European University are legally operating. So what's behind all this? It's very clearly identifiable. Sometimes they talk about it, I'm just saying, they don't quite admit to the fact that there's an enemy image production going on - right now Soros is the hoofed devil, there are no migrants in the country, as you call them - against someone, because you're preparing for the next election. The only problem is that they are harming Hungarian higher education, and you know that they are harming Hungarian higher education. 'Cause when we go to a foreign conference and we stand up there, you get why you voted for it anyway, but that's your personal case, they'll sort it out with you and the colleagues you're going to talk to. But they're gonna look at us, because if you go from a country where they just shut down college, they make you impossible from one moment to the next, if you come from a country like this with a PhD degree, they laugh about it, it's nothing. Neither my PhD, nor yours, nor yours will be worth anything. It won't matter! When you go from a country like this, you just look like your colleagues from there. [[Noise from the benches of the governing parties.]] So it shouldn't have been brought here by exceptional procedure, it should have been withdrawn with exceptional urgency. Shame on you!
u2017-04-04-46	Thank you, Congressman Szabo. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches, for one representative per faction, and for the first independent Member to make a statement, at the expense of the remaining timeframes. First, I give the floor to Congressman Ákos Hadházy, LMP, in two minutes.
u2017-04-04-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm not gonna take the two minutes. I would like to say a few sentences to Secretary of State Palkovic. It is not my sentences, Iván Bächer said, that the shame, fortunately, does not last forever when he dies, then he goes to his descendants. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-04-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Further speeches by Members are possible in the remaining timeframes. These may be monitored on the meeting room table. I'll ask him... [[Signal.]] Yes, I see that, first of all, Mr László Pósán wishes to take advantage of this opportunity, if I can see your pre-arranged speech.
u2017-04-04-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On today's subject, I think one of the biggest misunderstandings or deliberate deceptions - a matter of point of view - is caused by the fact that, in all normal cases, there is an institution, and the way the legislation otherwise tells what its name is in Hungarian, what its name is in English and so on, in such cases under the Hungarian name and the English name. [[Gábor István Bellozó: How difficult it is!]] one and the same institution is understood. The Central European University and the CEU are in line with each other from this point of view, so everyone evaluates the two as the same institution. But the problem is that it's actually two separate legal entities, and if you'll excuse me, here's what I'm quoting. This was written by Zsolt Enyedi, Deputy Rector of CEU or Central European University, to the Vice Rector of the University of Debrecen. It's just a highlighted short quote. He admits that the CEU and the Central European University are indeed two separate legal entities, but we ourselves are not happy about this, he writes. Ladies and gentlemen, If you're not happy about it, then I don't know why you suddenly have to defend the existing status quo so vehemently, because it's written here that they're not happy about this situation. So, basically, we're trying to sort this out with the current bill. I hope that will be reassuring in every way. There are certain deadlines that are appropriate, and it is true that those administrative matters are easy to handle. So from now on, I think we're basically just on the right track. I think that was the nonsense that the Minister quoted in his exposé, namely this particular letter that George Soros wrote. If you'll allow me, I will name the Minister of that time in particular, but he was a public figure: Hungarian Bálint. In this letter, György Soros writes that the law in force, which contradicts it, should be enforced at his request. That was the nonsense, let's be honest. [[It's constant noise.]] And I understand why Congressman Hiller was so vehement. Well, that's because he's been assisting for a long time. Understood. I think that in this respect, when the Vice-Rector says that they are not happy about this situation, which is the case here, that there are two separate legal entities in the CEU and the Central European University, then there is a way and opportunity to tidy up. By the way, the Central European University is under no threat at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-04-50	Thank you, Congressman Pósan. The next announced speaker was Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2017-04-04-51	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The attack on CEU is not just about CEU. The attack on CEU is about how the Hungarian government is capable of the greatest betrayal imaginable, the closure of Hungarian knowledge and the future of children, so that the crimes of thieves in the government are not revealed. It is about the fact that Hungary is led today by people who have no interest in the fate of Hungary. They do not care that hospitals rot; that education has fallen apart; that half of a generation has been pushed out of primary school in 16 years; that Romania is leaving us; that there are more than 4 million people living under the minimum living; that the middle class has failed, and that their children cannot be sent to university, but they are slowly no longer able to get to a profession; and that, of course, everything that can be stolen in this country should be the state's property or someone else's private property. If you have zero power, you always have to point fingers at someone. The thing is, this power technology is far from new. Repression based on sharing is the same age as humankind. Before Fidesz, in our history, the Soviet Union and its Hungarian support teams were prominent in such a way. The Soviets have torn our society apart, put mistrust in people's everyday lives, leaving everyone with only one compliance point: power and remaining in power. [[István Szilárd Németh: Does a Communist say such things? It's going to be a party discipline.]] This power technique is always created by the same motivation: fear of being caught, dear Szilárd, the anxiety that you can no longer conceal. Viktor Orbán, you and your personal environment are simply terrified and cramped. [[11.50]] To them, the possession of power is not a temporary state, but the only way to avoid detection and accountability. After all, as is customary in a dictatorship, the dictator only owns his wealth, his wealth, as long as he dominates political decision-making. The greatest damage to the second Orbán government, his fault, which cannot be compared with that of Hungary, is that he charged and liquidated Hungary's faith in a better future. Anyone who gets nauseated today by the attack on the CEU, who today despises this government, who condemns the cynicism of the government, has a huge responsibility. We believe that everyone will recognize Orbán and your betrayal. We believe that everyone is able to consider what he is being used for. We believe that Fidesz fans today who are enthusiastically abusive of CEU have the ability to see how they are used to steal a criminal and human intellect, as well as the damage they do to the country. But knowledge and CEU can be saved for Hungary and Budapest. We therefore undertake to offer Hungary new hope in the spring of 2018. We believe that most people want a better life, a normal, responsible country. And we know how to organise, build, and ask for support from Hungary as a whole. The 2018 victory, the replacement of Orbán and the re-opening of the country will have at least the same sound in the world as the current attack on the CEU. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-04-04-52	Thank you, Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi. The next pre-notified speaker was Mr Imre Vejkey, Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2017-04-04-53	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Based on the examination of the Education Office, it has been found that in Hungary, from 28 universities with foreign degrees, only Saint Daniel works normally, the other 27 all operate irregularly [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] , including CEU, or Central European University. The inquiry, I must stress, ladies and gentlemen, was specifically about operation and not about what ideology and what universities teach. In the event of such a mass violation, the question of regulation being wrong arises with fundamental force on the part of a self-respecting government and should therefore be changed as soon as possible. This is my answer, ladies and gentlemen, which has been suggested by several opposition representatives as to why this should now be discussed in an exceptional procedure. We must be clear about this, ladies and gentlemen, and we must say that the bill does not affect the Central European University, which is registered in Hungary at any level, but only Central European University, which is registered in the State of New York, which has no instructor or student in the mother country, but still has accreditation. So, ladies and gentlemen, this means that until CEU issues an American degree in America, it will issue an American degree in Hungary. We believe that this is a serious accreditation problem. No university, so CEU can be above Hungarian law. In a democracy, there are no firsts among equals. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: First of all, this is not a democracy!]] Who and why are the privileges of the CEU Phantom University protected? Is it because George Soros founded it? Then I have bad news, ladies and gentlemen, because equality is equality in democracy. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: There is! Agnes Kunhalmi: This is not a democracy!]] You should know that the Rector of the Central European University, although he has already moved every stone against this bill, has acknowledged himself that the Central European University itself is not affected by the bill, only the CEU, which gives an American degree without any training in the US. [[Szabolcs Szabó: It's legal! István Szávay: What's wrong with that?]] Ladies and Gentlemen, It is therefore necessary to amend the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. Act T/14686 submitted. Law No. 1. In the bill, we make it clear and inevitable that higher education institutions outside the EU can operate in Hungary only if they operate in their home country and if they are approved by the international agreement between the government of their mother country and the Government of Hungary. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the occasion of the coming day of poetry, allow a relevant quote from Shakespeare's Julius Caesar, the first lines of Antony's eulogy. * Friends, Romans, earthlings, / Listen to me. / I came to bury Caesar, not praise him. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We didn't come here to praise the CEU either. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's for sure! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Bury him! That's a good quote. Defiance in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] but not to bury. Ladies and Gentlemen, Again, we didn't come here to praise the CEU, but we didn't even bury it. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's very good! Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] The U.S. embassy's statement confirms that, putting out siren sounds, because the embassy statement clearly shows that President Donald Trump is at the heart of the Soros University. [[Dr. István Apáti: Donald is the duck!]] Therefore, we Christian Democrats believe that it will not be a problem for the legally elected US government to reach an agreement within six months with the also legally elected Hungarian government on an international contract covering higher education institutions [[Agnes Kunhalmi: But he has no right to do this!]] recognition of its binding scope. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Is Orbán not welcome? Ágnes Kunhalmi: Receive Orbán for one signature! That's a lot of effort.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Thus, the Christian Democrats do not see reason to withdraw the proposal to amend the Higher Education Act, which has been initiated by several opposition representatives, or even by more from abroad, or even by any pressure from abroad. Moreover, because we have fought for it and believe that Hungary is a sovereign country, we regard these open or disguised pressures as an intervention in internal affairs. On the other hand, these pressures are a serious violation of the Hungarian Parliament's function as an independent branch of power by trying to tell us what to do or not to do from abroad. What freedom is this, ladies and gentlemen? [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Freedom of teaching!]] What are they trying to teach us? [[Szabolcs Szabó: You make this bill!]] You know, we've lost a slave more than once, beat an eagle, a crescent and a red star. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: They will beat you like this!]] The Hungarian nation has learned in a thousand years that it is not enough to talk about freedom and country. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: This is treason who attacks knowledge!]] "For freedom and country, we must fight in war and do it in a peaceful everyday life. Ladies and Gentlemen, This is what we are doing now when we support the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. T/14686. Bill No. 1. Please support me. The bill is about the operating system of foreign universities in Hungary, not any restriction on the freedom of education, as the siren sounds wish to be heard, because the bill does not include what the foreign university teaches on an ideological basis and what it teaches. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[12.00]]
u2017-04-04-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next pre-notified speaker was Mr István Ikotity, Member of the Council of the European Union, Possibly the Politics.
u2017-04-04-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, I have also talked to several Members, Fidesz and KDNP representatives, including those who are not among us at the moment, are not in the ranks here, and all of them have consistently claimed that they do not want to terminate the CEU. Well, that's not true. We certainly know a man who wants to eliminate the CEU, or at least wants him to disappear from Hungary, he is called Viktor Orbán. It has also spread for some time - at the end of December, we heard for the first time, you may be much sooner or even suspect - that you have given up the task of launching this man who gave him a scholarship on this course, George Soros must be chased out of this country. I wouldn't raise such concerns, because it's not my business what we bite into, what we do, what we do, what it's not my job, but that lie, please put aside that nobody wants it, that it does, that the Prime Minister wants it, that's his intention, and what you say, or that you're trying to protect the indefensible, or to deny it, that's simply not true. On an immediate question yesterday - concerning the CEU, of course - that I asked János Lázár, Minister János Lázár accused us of using this case for political hysteria. It's not hysteria. With the utmost calmness and determination, we say that you are on a path that is not a good path. They are moving forward on a path that leads in a very wrong direction, which, hiding behind different enemy images, eliminates Hungary's great value, and they are moving forward on a road that is taking place today, April 4, 2017, which was written in red in the calendars before, and this is definitely going to remain black, because this is a milestone here, I think. I don't want to protect George Soros, I have enough problems with him and his interventions, it's just that this method doesn't go along with what you're doing. We do not provoke hysteria, you create hysteria, because with such a momentum - higher education has a million problems, and it really is not one of the most important - you bring this forward; you bring it forward by extraordinary procedure, and beyond that you do so with a very short deadline, an unfulfilled deadline. My fellow Member Hiller suggested why the deadline is so short, why the deadline is so insufferable. I believe that you will not get that answer from your ranks, and I will tell you this: Congressman, the election is coming, it is on your neck, you must prepare for this, and you do see a danger from this side. So it's a political intention. But even in the head of the Minister, as the current KDNP speaker said, they see an external threat in this, they have a problem with György Soros. Understandably, I can imagine that this is a problem from your point of view, but I think that these methods, not personalised legislation, are the right method here. This is a policy of education policy, and indeed it is not a policy of education in a close sense; it is a general political milestone in the history of Hungary after the regime change. Fidesz-KDNP claims that CEU is above the law, and we claim that it is the government that is above the law, because at any time it pushes over any legislation by force in two days or in one day. A week ago, we weren't even discussing this law today, the Prime Minister came up with it, and today, if I can see your intentions correctly, you're going to vote for it. Dear House, It is clear that what Fidesz-KDNP is accusing CEU of is not true. CEU does not operate illegally, including a 2004 law and the new 2011 Higher Education Act. How interesting that Fidesz has never had a problem with the CEU in the last seven years or during their previous administration has ever been told that it would operate illegally. What they are now trying to say is that the CEU does not meet certain conditions based on the examination of the Education Office. This may be true, but as far as we know, the CEU has largely replaced these shortcomings, and these shortcomings are part of everyday operation, and these are irreplaceable things. We do not think that such a deficiency can be a cause and a real foundation for this attack, a harsh political attack. It is a very dangerous argument to refer to the alleged and established shortcomings of the Education Office, since this argument is true of several institutions examined and is true of many Hungarian institutions. In fact, such a reason, don't give it to God, can also be pulled up in connection with Hungarian universities in Romania, and can even be drawn up in connection with anyone. Yeah, well, let's all work according to the law, but whoever somehow doesn't do that doesn't want us to make it impossible with a law amendment. It's like when a student doesn't do his homework, and they expect him to be kicked out of school the next morning. It is also clear that this legislation, which is before us, is tailored to the CEU, is being discriminated against by this university. On the one hand, the requirement for the existence of an international treaty is likely to have been included in the draft because Andrássy University, which, by the way, has stood up for many others, already has one, otherwise it would be affected by this change of legislation. It can also be seen that in Fidesz they are not aware of the structure of the US government system, and they were talking about only one central government at first, and they have now realised - and they are trying to treat it as an amendment - that the federal state in the United States has no authority in higher education and is now writing the federal state in the law; we also spoke here yesterday with Minister Lázár in the immediate question. But it still doesn't give the central government, the Trump government, the power to deal with such educational issues. If the CEU continues to operate under the approval of the central government, it is clear that they are directly and intentionally imposing impossible conditions, even if it is already said that a prior agreement with the central government is necessary in the case of the US, the time span of this is extremely short and obviously there is little chance that this will be achieved. Furthermore, with regard to another requirement, it is noted that a number of institutions operate in other countries without an establishment, training or an endless range of these institutions at home. It is not entirely clear why an educational institution would have an obligation to operate where it belongs. Obviously this can be raised as a question, but it is more essential that the educational institution complies with the laws and requirements that are in the country, so far it has complied with them. Now, what you're referring to doesn't comply with a law you're about to pass. Obviously, there is a need to meet quality criteria, if they do this, accredit the institutions, these institutions give marketable degrees, give internationally recognised degrees, then I do not think that this may be an obstacle to being allowed to appear in the country, and only for the sake of Hungary should a university start training in one of the states of the United States in order to operate here. This is completely absurd. Fidesz-KDNP also says that the operation of CEU is a disadvantage to other Hungarian institutions. We believe that CEU is not the disadvantage, but that the operation of the government is a disadvantage to full Hungarian higher education. The fact that many participants in Hungarian higher education have stood up for the CEU is also evidence of the lack of disadvantage in Hungarian higher education, with supporters lining up day by day from the Rector's Conference through ELTE and other universities, trade unions, HÖOK [[Agnes Kunhalmi: HÖOK did not stand out!]] There are teachers, students and a lot of protruding. Let no one in higher education say that this university is a competitive disadvantage for us. Indeed, if you work in the research field, you know that there is a library for this university, which is condemned to be terminated, for which researchers have to go abroad. [[12.10]] It's an advantage, an innovation advantage, a research advantage that they can use from other universities. Many others stood up for these higher education institutions for the benefit of CEU, the president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences spoke, the former President of the Republic spoke, hundreds of professors and university professors from all over the world, including 14 Nobel Prize winner scientists. The online petition has now been signed by more than 30,000 people, tens of thousands marched to express their solidarity during the Sunday protest. Tibor Navracsics, your former group leader, former Minister, and their current EU Commissioner stood up for CEU. Would everyone be hysterical from László Lovász through Nobel Prize winner scientists, through László Sólyom to Tibor Navracsics? Don't you think you're the one who's going up on the freeway with all the traffic? I also told you yesterday that Viktor Orbán has turned up the cultural camp, we do not know exactly why they want to make CEU impossible, there are a lot of assumptions about this. Obviously we do not see the details of this, we do not know from what side, but it is quite clear that the government acts as a toy of great powers, and you can see that, as they have abolished a similar institution in Russia, they are doing the same at the moment, working at a pace of putini. But we're going to ask again if they've assessed what it means to attack the CEU. What will the thousands of foreign students who study here think of us, the hundreds of foreign teachers and professors who turn around the university? Not only will our international image deteriorate, but our competitiveness will also be reduced. Or should we ask again whether they have calculated that anti-Hungarian Romanian politicians will have their eye on the blood and want to close the Hungarian universities in Romania? They don't have training in Hungary either. As you can hear from the press, the Romanian ex-government chief Victor Ponta has already referred to this in recent days. Isn't attacking CEU expensive even at the cost of causing huge damage to Hungarians across this border? Is this responsible, conservative policy? Dear House, It should be pointed out again that standing next to CEU is not about standing up for George Soros or different ideologies. There is much more here: it is about the whole Hungarian higher education, about the country's assessment, its attractiveness and competitiveness; about what a Hungarian diploma, a Hungarian doctoral degree, a scientific degree will be worth, as Szabolcs Szabó said earlier. We are talking about academic freedom, academic freedom, free education in a European sense. We do not have to love the spirit of CEU, but we do have to accept that the university is successful because it provides viable and marketable degrees and is attractive to foreign students and professors. CEU brings many successes to Hungary. It also brings good success to universities in Hungary, let us consider the numerous institutional cooperation and joint projects. It's not just a matter of sympathy, it's a matter of fact. If there is no CEU or if it is weakened after the government attack, then ultimately the entire Hungarian higher education will be weakened. The LMP has already stood up for higher education institutions and will continue to do so in the future. For example, we protested yesterday against making rural higher education institutions impossible, which is taking place on the agricultural line. We object to the dismemberment of Corvinus. We want strong higher education with strong institutions, many universities, colleges, many students and serious international relations; we think that one element of this is CEU in Hungary. I do not care about ideologies in this matter, we would also stand up for the Pázmány or Károli if any government attacked on an ideological or political basis. The protest that has begun with regard to the CEU, which clearly goes against the Fidesz-KDNP... - I think there is an aggressive, uncontrolled and confrontative policy on the part of Fidesz, there is a cultural struggle. We don't want this, we want a peaceful construction, and we don't have to fight mirages, but we have to work for the country's real growth. I think that this is the goal and the finding of common denominators both in higher education and in the country's affairs. I ask you to withdraw this amendment.
u2017-04-04-56	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. The next pre-notified speaker was Ms Zsuzsanna Szelényi, Member of the Council, independent.
u2017-04-04-57	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, What you are doing today with Hungarian higher education is not new, it is just another stage in the anti-Knowledge rampage that your government is implementing. In recent years, this trip has been marked by unheard of withdrawal of funds, the introduction of specific penalty fees, political harassment of departments, the appointment of financial commissaries. Lex CEU is just another proposal that is completely unthinkable in a normal country: an attack on knowledge. The growing attack on universities is against Hungary's national interest. What's the world about today? It's about knowing everything. Anyone with knowledge has a job. Anyone with knowledge has a good salary and will never be unemployed. Anyone with knowledge can keep up with time, with the world. The development and extension of universities is the only chance for Hungary to develop, because we have nothing but people. University autonomy is the 500-year idea that you are today seriously damaging, a huge problem. In fact, university autonomy is about creating ideas in an atmosphere of freedom that enable innovation and development. That's what world development has been about for 500 years. The proposal for the expulsion of the Central European University creates a critical situation in Hungarian higher education. This proposal is not only unreasonable and unconstitutional, but also goes against the Hungarian national interests. You claim that the functioning of the Central European University is detrimental to other Hungarian universities. Why would you do that? How will exorcism of the CEU help the University of Debrecen to develop or the Nyíregyházi? I'll tell you what, it doesn't. This proposal sends nothing more to the university department than to the universities that I am in charge and I will do to you what I want. And that's enough, dear Rose Hoffmann, to undermine university autonomy. This proposal is harmful, harmful to CEU, harmful to Hungarian universities and harmful to Hungary. The consequence of this law will be that people will leave Hungary, with thousands of teachers and students, and we will stay here poorer, humiliated and weaker. With this proposal, you take responsibility for the book-burners. I suggest you stop this cowardly misconception and immediately withdraw this dark and crisis-creating proposal. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-04-58	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi. It's a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, Member, MSZP.
u2017-04-04-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Let them decide whether it is important for you to increase the opportunity to acquire knowledge; whether it is important to increase and strengthen our declining international authority; whether it is important to create a better life. If it's important, they can't do anything else, they won't put such laws in the walls of this House, and now they can do something about it. Orbán's behavior is incomprehensible; it's incomprehensible, but it's also yours, who put their heads in my vehicle. Without professional, legal, legal, and all kinds of ideas, they are practically making claims. They're talking about fraud, they're referring to fraud. Who? Who really is doing this? The Soros children, those who have become what they have become in the form supported by Soros: Orbán through Kövér, Deutsch through Kovács, many others. What are these people up to? They're fighting their own demons. Don't fight it. Fight to ensure that people have access to knowledge in this country as widely as possible; to fight for higher standards of training on the stage of education; to provide health care; to reduce poverty rather than increase it. [[12.20]] Try to act for the people. They are trying to impose conditions that cannot be met. Orbán, Rétvári, as I said, shouts about fraud and then wants to check it out. Everything they do is a lie! They're not looking out for the students. Fidesz today acts against their interests in Hungary and the Hungarian people. It makes me impossible, it kills me. Today's institutions, tomorrow's what? You don't lie, you don't cheat, you don't steal. No. No, fellow Members, it is in the interests of the people. For the next year, at least one of these eight years, they will try to serve the interests of the people! So I'm asking you to take it back. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-04-04-60	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. The next two-minute comment is Congressman István Szávay, Jobbik.
u2017-04-04-61	Thank you very much. I am very sorry that Congressman Vejkey has left the room, because with regard to his speech, which was read with the usual rites, I would have asked him when he whipped the CEU about what an outrage it is to accept a CEU degree in America, I would be very happy, or I would be very curious, although I fear in advance that Mr Vejkey would be able to explain with two coherent sentences the problem of accepting a CEU diploma or any degree in America. Can you explain this with two coherent sentences - but if these two sentences are not related, we would be satisfied - why is this a problem for the government? Will this really cause a competitive disadvantage for Hungarian higher education? Don't you think that today, perhaps, young people who may have completed their master's or doctoral studies abroad, in Western Europe or in America, might they be staying home because they will have such a degree? This could be one aspect when hundreds of thousands of people have left this country because of your disastrous policies and the governments that preceded you. By the way, it would be worth examining any law if we bring it to the House, in terms of whether it will contribute to leaving Hungary, or if we are trying to make laws here - whether it is education, health or anything else - that might help as few people as possible to leave the country to stay home, or perhaps not to give, God, to return. Plus, let me make one more argument. It is very feared that Hungarian teachers who are not currently EU members from Ukraine and Serbia may find it difficult to work with this proposal, while, in the framework of the Erasmus programme in the Carpathian Basin, which we have proposed, the government has just undertaken, and rightly so, to facilitate and support the mobility of Hungarian and foreign teachers and students between higher education institutions in the Carpathian Basin. It might be worth considering. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-04-62	Thank you, Congressman Savay. The next announced speaker is Mónika Dunai, Member of the Council, Fidesz.
u2017-04-04-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In today's debate, there may be a huge fault line between the opposition and Fidesz-KDNP's voices, argument systems and comments. This can be identified in today's debate in two main areas. One of them, and that is perhaps the biggest problem, is that the opposition and the ruling parties are talking about different things in the debate itself. We are talking about the bill tabled, the amendment of the Higher Education Act, a professional debate that lies before us. My fellow Members represent the arguments and interests of an indeterminate, invisible world empire, an empire led by the financial world here in the debate. You are not talking about Hungarian people, you are not talking about improving Hungarian higher education, but you are not even concerned about what will happen to the future intellectuals. You speak as tentacles of this invisible world empire, the money empire, the expanding money empire here in Parliament today. You are having a political debate, as opposed to the professional debate that we represent along the letters and spirit of the proposed bill. But we know that this is the nature of political debates. In the political debate, it is permitted, we are used to making a lot of sense, to talk about things that are very often inappropriate, to exaggerate the situation a lot, and to talk about a story appropriate to the subject, or to something that you think is appropriate. So one of the big fault lines is the subject of the debate. The other fault line, and this is also considered to be serious, is in the interest of whose interests you represent and whose interests Fidesz and KDNP represent on the basis of the proposal submitted. We want to operate a higher education system in which equal opportunities operate. We do not want Hungarian universities, Hungarian students, to suffer from their knowledge, whether in Hungary or in any part of the world. Therefore, we must do so and raise our voice in every case. We would like the rules, the laws - the minor irregularity is an irregularity, the greater irregularity is an irregularity - to be followed by everyone. We'd like to make sure that none of the universities have any prerogatives. Especially not universities that can operate at the expense of Hungarians, against our Hungarian students in Hungary. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Before they are very nervous in the benches of the MSZP, I would like to say that when I was afraid of Hungarian universities, I am also talking about the Central European University, because the Central European University is a Hungarian, state-recognized university, operating according to the Hungarian legal order and following the rules. The rules that Hungarian law imposes on them. The Central European University, as has already been said several times in the debate, is not the same institution we know as CEU. It's two different institutions. Once again, when we talk about the primacy of Hungarian universities, we also include the Central European University. We talked about standards. Are we concerned about the quality of our students' studies? Yeah, you guys told me how high the Central European University is. That's right. However, we can add a number of other Hungarian universities, which are also high-quality and even ahead of the ranking. We can be proud of the Hungarian University of Veterinary Science and would like to follow his example world-class. Ladies and gentlemen, If we are talking about the protection of Hungarian universities and we are concerned about Hungarian higher education, then we Hungarian representatives should be primarily concerned about Hungarian universities. And here comes the idea that you have used in your argument system, how important and how colorful the Hungarian higher education palette is with the presence of foreign universities. This is level two. Yes, it is important for foreign universities to be able to teach here and to work here. It's for our own good. But it is also in the interests of the Hungarian people that these institutions can operate on the same basis of the same criteria as Hungarian universities. That is what we are now trying to do when we make this law, to make it clear. I do not know what my fellow opposition Members are afraid of. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: You're killing the country!]] we have said it several times, the government has said it, and in today's debate a lot of people have confirmed that we are ready to agree with the United States of America. [[An uproar on the opposition side.]] Or the governor of the state of New York. [[12.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, You underestimate him... [[It's a lot of noise.]] Ladies and gentlemen, You underestimate the President of the United States of America and underestimate the Governor of the State of New York when you say in the debate that you are unable to solve such a matter in six months' time, and then in the next six months, to conclude such an agreement of principle, and then an agreement between two states. I think that the leadership of both the State of New York and the United States of America have solved even more complex tasks, and they are likely to face even more difficult tasks in the future. So if you say that this is not enough for two months, then I think that they are criticising not us, the Hungarian Parliament's willingness to conclude an agreement, but the United States of America's criticism and reduction that they are not fit to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I would like to stress that CEU and Central European University are two different universities on paper. The Central European University is not affected in anything, in its autonomy, in its organisational form or in any form by this law that we are discussing today. Just like it doesn't affect ELTE or any of our other universities. This concerns the 28 other institutions, of which, I note, only one institution has expressed its disapproval; the others have accepted the need for an interstate contract and are working to develop and promote it. I think that if the people associated with CEU, György Soros himself, wanted to promote this agreement between the two states, he would have to lobby back home, in America, so that this could happen as soon as possible. We're ready for this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-04-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. The next announced speaker was Mr Gergely Bárándy, Member of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2017-04-04-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, As Congresswoman Mónika Dunai said, there is indeed a huge difference between the argument system of opposition parties and the argument system of government parties. There is no other reason for this than the opposition talking about the real motivation and reasons for submitting the bill, and you are trying to hide these political intentions behind professional arguments. These two, Congresswoman, will never touch. But don't even touch it. And whose interests are represented? What we see is that you are your own. You can see that very well from this bill. And what you have said is that you do not want to allow small irregularities, and that is why you are taking such measures against CEU, then I suggest that all higher education institutions in Hungary should be closed down, that is indeed equal opportunities, because such small irregularities happen in all of them. If you wish to take account of the law or the failure to comply with the law which the Parliament has not yet adopted, then you will again show an interesting legislative attitude here in Parliament. We already know about the retroactive legislation from you, but there has never been a case in which you wish to take account of someone who has not yet entered into force. It's really a novum, there's always new under the sun, it seems. I'd like to add, unfortunately. And that, I think, Madam honourable Member, because it has become quite clear from your words, you are simply sacrificing a university to finally receive Mr Orbán, which you have failed to achieve so far. Maybe it's a little too much for that, I guess. Well, I think it's a pity to analyze what the motivation of this is, already the submission, there's been a lot of talk about this before, including your scapegoat policy. It is also a pity to talk about whether your intention to agree is real when you intend to negotiate after the Parliament has already passed a law. I don't know, but I believe that based on the molding logic, we should negotiate before the law is passed, and we should adopt the law in accordance with the agreement, not adopt a law, and then begin to agree. We can see that, can't we? As Congresswoman Bernadett Szél said, the horse's foot is really hanging out. In fact, it's not just the horse's foot, it's the whole horse. This is the way it was done, and so it is in Russia, which is an increasing number of elements of the regime in Hungarian public life. The university, which is not dear to the great wise leader, is destroyed by administrative means, by legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps there are one or two of you who know William J. Dobson's recently published book a few years ago, the title is "Dictatorship 2.0" and the subtitle is "The Nature of the 21st Century Tyrants." In this, it analyses the practices of several states; for example, it analyses the practice of Russia in Putin. The interesting thing about it, ladies and gentlemen, is that when you read this analysis, the process that you are doing with the CEU is drawn up. It's exactly the same process. They do not say and do not undertake, and this is clearly said here, that you wish to shut down an institution with an ideology which you do not like, and to plow, but to make the institution impossible by various administrative means. Putin did so, I think, in the case in the book, that the institution did not comply with the fire police regulations. Now you're using the Education Office for this purpose, but the result is the same, and your motivation is exactly the same. And if we had any doubt about it, then Peter Harrach, the leader of the KDNP faction, assured us that we did not misinterpret the real intention. Let me quote two sentences from him, otherwise there might be something else. This is what it sounds like. Look, it's obvious that there's an ideological and political struggle going on. It is also obvious which kind of space the Soros University is on. It seems you haven't told him yet, Secretary of State, what a track is. This is an extremely clear speech: ideologically problematic educational institutions must be destroyed. Only then, Secretary of State, do not give me the benefit of the doubt that you have submitted this bill on the basis of professional arguments. It's called cultural kampf, to put it simply. The bill before us is an integral part of a process, and this must be seen. A process that few people thought would lead us here at the beginning. For the record, if we don't stop him, we're gonna stop him a lot longer. And as we move deeper into it, it becomes evident to more and more people. When, in the early 2010's, we drew attention to where erosion of the system of brakes and counterweights could lead, the consequences of the government seeing in the constitution not the limitations of power, but of using it as a tool to extend its power, what it means when, with every manifestation of a two-thirds state power, it denies the idea of the rule of law, what eras the pleasing sentence refers to, that are not the people for the law, but the laws for the people, that is, the relativity of the law has begun, where it will lead, if, hiding behind the attractive slogan of efficiency gains, power begins to undermine warranty rights and continue, many have not believed us yet. Well, that's where it leads, fellow Members. This is where it leads. Autocracy, vulnerability, paternalist state, demented youth, half a million emigrated young people, restricting thought, speech and freedom of the press, scapegoating, reducing university autonomy, and now, ultimately, only trying to physically disable one university. [[12.40]] Of course, there is more, but the longer we go, the harder it will be to stop it. The latest analysis of Freedom House was published today: the level of democracy in Hungary today is lower than in Romania and Bulgaria, we have managed to become the last country in the region, to become an army driver. My fellow Member, Imre Vejkey, gave me a quote, which, by the way, was a great way of translating it so that you didn't come here to praise the CEU, but to bury it. My fellow Member is right, indeed. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: I said it the other way around!]] Let me give you another quote. It's from Martin Niemöller, maybe the name doesn't say much, the more the quote will tell you. The first time they came for the Communists, I didn't tell them because I wasn't a communist. And then they came to pick up the union guys, and I didn't tell them because I wasn't a union guy. Then they came for the socialists, and I didn't tell them because I wasn't a socialist. Then they came for the Jews, and I didn't tell them because I wasn't Jewish. Then when they came for me, there was no one left to tell me. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I think, fellow Members, that this phenomenon was recognised by the dozens of academics and other professors who wrote an open letter to the president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in the autumn of last year, regardless of party standing, and demanded the preservation of the democratic rule of law. Their words then fell on deaf ears. Well, he's here now, and it seems like it's time for everyone to stand up for the CEU, whether they're involved or not, if they love the institution or not, because in the end, when he comes, no one stays to speak for him. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of MSZP. Several congressmen in the courtroom are talking standing up.]]
u2017-04-04-66	Thank you very much, Congressman Bárándy. I would like to ask my fellow Members to take their seats or take back the corridor, as there will be a two-minute comment, followed by a speech by István Hollik, Dániel Z. Kárpát and György Szilágyi, and István Szávay. I give the floor to Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács for two minutes, Fidesz. [[It's constant noise.]]
u2017-04-04-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Speaking for freedoms is a very grateful task, and if there is no such subject, then of course you can do it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And then it's all about freedoms. The issue of educational freedoms is exceptionally important and, consequently, it is very good to cross-reference it. However, this is not the case, so let us be clear. [[There's still more people in the room talking standing up. The president's ringing again.]] I'd like to tell you, that's why I asked... can't you hear it? [[He's adjusting his microphone.]] Is it now? [[For signal:]] Thank you. Well, I'll cut it short. Dear House, They speak for freedoms on the opposition side in such a way that freedoms are not, let alone, in danger. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Not in your thoughts!]] But it's always very important to target, and it gives you a very good environment. When it comes to educational freedoms, it is even more likely to be targeted. I asked for a two-minute speech for an honest confession. The fact is that when this university came to Hungary, I was not happy for my part, I would have preferred it to be given to Prague, and then I took note that this university was operating here. I must add that what I'm about to say is also a popular, if you will, populist speech. It is because, my dear House, there has not been a word about how much tuition is here at this university, what a Hungarian social class it is that can and can pay this tuition. There was no mention of how many scholarships there were, and how many of these scholarships are Hungarians. There was no mention of a countryman like me coming from a very poor country, from a poor district, from a poor family, what are the odds of this university. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: He has a lot of special programs for this, the poor children! Crying from the ranks of the MSZP: Sit down! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What are you talking about?]] Did that happen? I didn't say anything. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And I'm shocked to see what the socialist response is. Well, we should have told you, dear House, that you support this university, but you want those Hungarian talents that cannot get in there today. Why isn't that mentioned? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Constant calls from the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Shame on you! Shame on you. The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Well, what kind of left is that...
u2017-04-04-68	Thank you very much.
u2017-04-04-69	... instead of telling the right-hand side what to say? [[The president's ringing again. Zoltán Pride: Shame on you! Sit down, you're talking nonsense.]]
u2017-04-04-70	Thank you very much, Béla Turi-Kovács.
u2017-04-04-71	Yes, my dear House. [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] It would be nice if you would return to those left-wing values...
u2017-04-04-72	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, Speaking in advance, István Hollik, Member of the Christian Democratic People's Party. [[Crying from the ranks of the MSZP. Zoltán Grimlock: Subscribe instead! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2017-04-04-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I have listened to this debate, if it can be called a debate, because I think this was not a debate, because we have seen that the Minister and my fellow Members here in the horseshoe on the side of the government, we have talked about the bill, and we have talked about the fact that we believe that this bill is about compliance with the rules. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Come to the demonstration at 5:00 and they'll explain it to you. Get over here! You're cowards!]] and that the functioning of foreign universities in Hungary should be enshrined in international agreements [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Subscribe to CEU, see if you can understand next time.]] but the opposition did not say a word about this bill or these proposals in the bill. The debate was completely unprofessional, and I felt as if I had fallen into the reading evening of articles such as index.hu or 444.hu. [[Zoltán Pride: The next one will be about you!]] One thing we learned from this debate, however, was how the network of George Soros, which often circumvents the rules of democracy, operates this university. How does it work? He's running it with rumors, fake news. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Is this true, Mónika Dunai?]] spreading lies about, among other things, this bill and thus deceiving Nobel Prize winners and economists [[Delight and applause in the ranks of MSZP, independents and LMP. Agnes Kunhalmi: They're all stupid!]] 'Cause these Nobel laureates and these economists think [[The president's ringing the bell. Incoming from the ranks of MSZP: Many stupid Nobel Prize winners!]] It's not true, it's not true. [[It's constant, it's loud. The president's ringing again.]]
u2017-04-04-74	Go on, Congressman Hollik.
u2017-04-04-75	The fact is that it is also clear from your revelations that you are members of this Soros network, because you are doing the same thing that index.hu or 444.hu has done in the last few days: they are spreading rumors, they are talking about the abolition of teaching freedom, when this bill is not about it, it is not about that. István Hiller said that it is in Hungary's interest that an internationally recognised university with a high degree and knowledge in the labour market should operate in Hungary, and I agree with him that this is the Central European University, this is the Central European University. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Vote no.]] CEU is not this, CEU is a phantom university, CEU has no students, CEU has no campus, CEU has no training, CEU does nothing. [[Zoltán Haughty: How foolish you are!]] It is clear from the examination of the Education Office that the Central European University offers CEU training as its own training in the framework of a cooperation agreement. So in Hungarian I ask what the added value of Central European University is. Nothing. [[Dezső Foolish: Then why are you afraid of him?]] Teachers who teach there are admitted to the Central European University and the Central European University is conducting the training. I can think of one thing: György Soros wrote in a confidential letter in 2004, which the Minister also presented here, to the Minister of Education at the time, in order to maintain the situation so that students of a Hungarian university could ultimately receive an American degree in this legally troubled situation. This is an unfair situation. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Why? What's wrong with it?]] We believe that this must be stopped, and that we would like to end the very world that George Soros is writing a letter to the then Minister of Education, so that you may not put the CEU into that law, and that law does not apply to them. This is what the letter that the Minister has just presented was about, and we want to end this world. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: How did your boss get there in the communist dictatorship? Huh? Oxford. Tell me about it. The interrogation of Agnes Kunhalmi.]] And another word about school leave. The Central European University, as it may have become clear to you now, is doing everything, and this is a university registered in Hungary, its operation is not mentioned in this debate, the instructors are teaching at this university. This university has nine two-year Master's programmes. Allow me to read three of these to you. [[12.50]] The first of these two-year master's programmes is critical gender studies, the second is women, s and gender studies, and the third is women, and s and gender history. And there's six more. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] By the way, if Fidesz-KDNP wanted to abolish school leave, we would have stopped these courses long ago. [[It's a constant murmur. The president's ringing the bell.]] But in Hungary there is freedom of teaching at the Central European University, which works legally, teaching what they want [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: She's good for you, isn't she? Agnes Kunhalmi: Would the blind comondo be better?]] Whether or not we are sitting in the benches of the Fidesz-KDNP, we agree with that or not. So, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, in Hungary, there is freedom of teaching. Once again, I would like to make it clear to you that this bill is about - and let us thank István Ikotity for drawing this attention - that we want to put clean water in the glass, and, for example, we want regulation that already works in the case of Andrássy University. Because Andrássy University works legally, doesn't want to hush, doesn't want to get illegal benefits in secret. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: It's been working for 27 years!]] As the Central European University and CEU do, they want to agree with the Hungarian State. And interestingly, the operation of Andrássy University is regulated by an international agreement. We do not want anything, just so that the same happens to all other foreign universities operating in Hungary. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] That is what this legislation is all about, and I ask you to support it for this very reason. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-04-76	Thank you, Congressman Hollik. Dear Parliament, With all due respect, I would ask the MSZP Group to look at the display and read how many minutes you have left. His time is running out. Please be more patient and accompany the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik. [[Anita Herring: She's not ashamed, okay?!]]
u2017-04-04-77	Mr President, Dear House, It was amazing listening to my fellow Member Hollik speak in the style of Bolshevik, because... [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] Please, Mr. President, keep the voting machines quiet because you can't hear our voices.
u2017-04-04-78	Let's hear it, Congressman. [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2017-04-04-79	Thank you very much. So it's quite amazing when the rapporteur is represented by someone who doesn't even know that we're talking about two parallel training programmes. And if, in his view, there is a case of nothing added value, then why should it be banned? But I'd like to say in the beginning that I wasn't a Soros scholar, unlike a good part of your top executives. [[Interviews from Fidesz: You can still be!]] I do not even fall into fundamentalism when an alien or a foreigner is attacked in Hungary. Quite simply, we should examine what this is all about. If you really had a problem with gender theory or gender studies or such studies, then you could also look at the Hungarian language courses, where they teach feminist philosophy and gender linguistics in Hungary at the moment. But we must say that if you could put Hungarian education in a position, you would not need such a lying political club as you are doing now, because obviously you should not use the means of prohibition as a matter of urgency. So what is the reason for the urgency that you will beat this across the House within 24 hours? They simply cannot put Hungarian education in a position, which is why I say that, in my view, György Soros is the archenemy of Hungarians, and I think this bill is not about CEU, and I have to say that they want to deal with a situation that should be dealt with in a completely different way with by completely flawed Bolshevik-communist means. But they don't know the 21st. By banning the sounds that are telling you about you at ELTE and other Hungarian universities in the century, good teachers say that in Hungary, a man's life in health is expected to end where pension begins in Western Europe. And this derogation from 6-8-10 years of age, you simply don't give it back to the Hungarian people, let alone near it. In the same way, they play an amazing role in creating and deepening the home-building crisis. A university student has to pay 130 to 150 thousand forints for rent alone, and according to you, the Secretary of State of Tállai said it was okay, yesterday he said it in his reply. They cannot ban all the voices that will tell Hungarian young people, the XXI. In the middle of the century, they simply won't have the means to do so, and the only way they would be able to do so is to take themselves seriously, to strengthen the Hungarian education system, to strengthen the Hungarian economy, at a level that would prevent students from facing such an impossible situation. It is quite simply the prohibition method that you wish to introduce, it is inappropriate to do so, once again, along with the Bolshevik-type voice of István Hollik, who clearly does not understand what this debate is about, and that is what is truly regrettable. We in the Hungarian Parliament should debate solutions, Jobbik is a party to solutions, but you are fighting with shadows that you will never be able to overcome. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-04-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2017-04-04-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps we could agree that higher education cannot be the scene of daily political battles. Perhaps we could also agree that higher education should not become the prey of opportunistic adventurers. And perhaps we could agree that higher education should not fall victim to personal frustration. And if we agree and you agree on these, then I do not understand why you are defending this law, because then you should also agree with us that you cannot play with higher education simply because Viktor Orbán no longer loves George Soros as he used to; you cannot play with higher education simply because the new American President refuses to accept Viktor Orbán. Then we should agree on that. Legislation must not be used to deal with Viktor Orbán's injury and mental problems. [[It's a constant murmur.]] I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members, before anyone sees the responsible and noble task of legislation, it is advisable to read the law on legislation. Even so that the law maker knows exactly what the expectation is in this genre category. Let's see what you've created in connection with this law. The principle laid down by law is that the legislation must have a regulatory content that can be clearly understood by the addressees. The submitted law, the regulation, applies to foreign higher education institutions, and it was not clear from the rule exactly who would have to sign with whom or what, in order for a foreign higher education institution to continue training in Hungary. You have also noticed that, at this point, the legislative law is in breach of their proposed amendment and, therefore, it has been corrected by an amendment. But it's not a good job, in my opinion. Another essential requirement is for the preparatory of the legislation to assess the expected consequences of the legislation by carrying out a preliminary impact assessment. This preliminary impact assessment is unlikely to have taken place, because if it had happened, you would have been able to make a lot of noise here. The rule made without an analysis of the expected effects is that it is illegal, even harmful, because it causes confusion in the legal system, which is the foundation of state setting and the foundation of our society, and it can also have serious effects on universities of cross-border interest such as Transylvania. This could have been covered by the impact assessment. The fast-built proposal is a brazen work that does not meet the minimum requirements for legislative proposals or violates it on several points, so it cannot be accepted by a fair countryman. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the government's communication, the current amendment is justified by the fact that the CEU does not like the current government because it has been crusaded against its founder and has been called the hoofed devil. But, fellow Members, I accept your argument that George Soros is the hoofed devil, but then he who was taught by the devil, whose studies were paid by the devil, is the son of the devil, Viktor Orbán. Then let's agree on that, too. But speaking of devils and demons: at the time, the Kádár system did not take to heart this person's activities - why is the current system attacking this man even more fiercely than the Kádár era? Is it just because the current system is the same or worse than the Kádár system? [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Worse!]] If I look at the bill before us, I must state that the assumption in my question is certainly true: the present system is nothing more than the revived parody of the Kádár system. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Rakosi system!]] There's one more very important thing about the bill. The question arises as to why, just a year before the elections, Parliament should deal with the small-scale issues of the existence of a marginal private university. Unfortunately, I have to say that there is no particular objective reason why we are talking about this right now, the only reason why the Minister for Higher Education has brought this case here now, because he wants us to talk about it and not about anything else, not about other things that are real problems that have been calling for a solution for years, but have not yet dared bring it here before legislation. The real problems are the inadequacy of the government, the strangulation of corruption and the immeasurable cynicism used to handle the country's affairs. [[13.00]] The current issue is nothing but distraction, just part of political communication. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, how long do you intend to keep an eye on this circus? When will they realize that they are helping to create another one-party dictatorship? [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-04-04-82	Thank you, Congressman Szilágyi. I give the floor to Congressman István Szávay, Jobbik.
u2017-04-04-83	Thank you very much. We have heard from the pro-government speakers how terribly professionally they have approached this whole case. However, we could not hear too many professional arguments. They could not even justify their main concerns, nor why these problems are a problem, and if the CEU will solve them, what will make the situation better. Congressman Hollik or anyone else, please tell me what will change if the CEU rents a joint in New York, says that CEU will be the campus of the CEU and has a building in the motherland. What's gonna change then? What's the difference from then on? Plus, they just said that they were trying to completely negate the whole case, that it doesn't matter, or that it's not affected. Then why would they want to ban the whole thing? - from one side. And on the other hand, my fellow Member Turi, with all due respect, I regard you as someone who saved something of the little master values for you in this squashed faction, but I'm sorry, how can you say such a thing? ! There's an institution. Does that have a competitive edge? Yeah. Is it because it's expensive and hard for a poor student to get in, the solution is to terminate the institution? Well, what an attitude. I'm sorry. That's Bolshevik speed, fellow Members. The competitive disadvantage of Hungarian higher education should not be eliminated by blowing out an institution with a competitive advantage. Congressman Bárándy also said that there is a great gap in the argument system between the government and the opposition. There is also a gap in the opposition's argument system, so let me make this very clear to you. 'Cause we're not playing those strings, we're not playing the music the socialists said, but there's no doubt a thing or two that had to be stated. You're talking about dialogue and how open you are. If you were open, you would have really looked at this issue open and ready for dialogue, not fooling Parliament in a few days. What do you want and who do you want to talk to when we're negotiating? Everyone is looking forward to it because our fellow Members from Fidesz have come in to vote on this whole proposal immediately. By the way, what Congressman Harrach said to a member of the press when he was asked why this whole matter was so urgent. You said, Congressman, that it is urgent because there is a great deal of hysteria around it, that it must be closed quickly. Now, do you want to settle this, or do you want to settle this quickly? By the way, in these few sentences everything is included in what we have long known about the natural way for Viktor Orbán to resolve political conflicts. For Viktor Orbán and Fidesz, the natural solution to the solution to political conflicts, the conflict situations, as is currently the case, is not the search for an agreement, not the negotiation, not the compromise, but the harsh force, violence and abuse of power. This is exactly what you are doing now in the debate on this proposal, rather than dealing with the real problems of higher education. Is Hungarian higher education at a competitive disadvantage? Yeah. Does the CEU have a competitive advantage? Yeah, he's got a competitive edge. Why does he have a competitive advantage? Because you ignominiously provide Hungarian higher education with half as much money as the government of SZDSZ gave back then, even if the number of students has decreased somewhat since then. Teachers work for humiliatingly low money, wages. For 15 years, student allowances and scholarships have not been substantially increased. Today, in Hungary, a poor, disadvantaged student, Mr.Turi, cannot concentrate on his studies, because he does not receive a scholarship, he does not receive an allowance, he cannot deal with his studies, his TDK papers, his scientific advancement, because he has to take a job, because this is the financing of Hungarian higher education. There is no uniform system of quality assurance in higher education, Mr State Secretary. Why don't you do that? It's a serious problem to drop out. For various reasons, 40 percent of students are unable to complete the university, not to mention access. Congressman Turi, it's not just CEU that's hard to get into, you know? ! The problem is that in recent years it has become increasingly difficult to get into any Hungarian higher education institution for an untrained youth from a poor family from a disadvantaged area. These issues should be addressed if they are to eliminate the competitive disadvantage of Hungarian higher education, not to create false problems, to look for false enemies and thus to distract attention from the otherwise catastrophic situation of education and health care, from the hundreds of thousands leaving Hungary, from the low wage level and from the devastating corruption. Because it's a fake case, it's an unfair procedure, by the way. Now they're going to go on with CEU, and other times they're going to be different. Besides, it would be much more fairer if the entire university were despised by the cashier. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-04-04-84	Thank you very much, Congressman Savay. I'll give the floor to Victor Vinnai for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2017-04-04-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's debate has proved to me that there is no lex CEU. We want to change precisely the prerogatives, since in 2005 György Soros himself asked the then Minister of Education to enjoy special privileges. When we want to change irregularities or these prerogatives, then here the opposition - it turns out that the left and Jobbik are selling in one piece - is actually the opposition here. [[There is a constant murmur from the benches of opposition parties. Agnes Kunhalmi: Eleven years later! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You've been governing for seven years. Why now?]] Talks about academic freedom, political hysterical moods about university autonomy, about the quality of higher education. But they do not mention that Hungarian universities are excellent, and the 28 foreign educational institutions located in Hungary are excellent, but five years have passed and found irregularities, minor administrative irregularities and major, more serious irregularities. That's what we're trying to fix. The Hungarian Government has good intentions for [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's not true!]] To negotiate... [[Zoltán Lukács: The road to hell is paved with it!]] You know, my dear Ildikó Bango, I've looked into the location of CEU in New York. New York, at 224 57th Street, and it says Open Society Soros Foundations. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: What a discovery!]] They don't go to college, they don't have students, they don't have teachers. The Central European University, which operates legally, is in no danger [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Nobel Prize for her!]] , since those deficiencies can be corrected within the specified time limit. Allow me to respond with one more sentence to knowledge. [[Lajos Korózs claps regularly.]] that we, pro-government representatives, are presented as anti-knowledge. We really know where knowledge can get us. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: National traitors!]] My personal example shows this. We are successful in getting people a life worthy of their knowledge. [[Cries from the benches of the MSZP: Shame on you! You should be proud of yourself. A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-04-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I don't see any other speakers on the screen. The consolidated debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr László Palkovics, State Secretary, who wishes to respond on behalf of the authors, in a ten-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-04-87	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I'm quite apprehensive right now. [[Cries from the benches of the MSZP: No! Aren't you ashamed? Dr. László Kács: It is not every day that a university is closed! It's a lot of noise.]] There are two reasons for this remorse. Since this presence has never been characteristic of the debates of our educational affairs so far [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Not with you!]] I think there's a reason for that. The second reason for my remorse is the words of Mrs Bernadett Szél that nobody has violated the autonomy of education until now, this is the first time. Thank you for that. There are a lot of reasons. I would like to say that we do not violate the autonomy of education, either foreign or Hungarian universities. What's happening is a simple legal thing. A question that, since the first law was drafted, the then Minister of Education asked CEU, seriously, how is it that an institution that operates in Hungary, but does not work in its own country, why is this necessary, since there is another solution. The fact that several people wanted to solve this problem shows that in 2004 the then Prime Minister and the Governor of the State of New York signed an agreement, a declaration that the situation of the CEU needs to be resolved and that we should create a university in Hungary, which we also created. The university works today, it's called the Central European University. This is a private university registered in Hungary, according to Hungarian law. The current amendment of the law will not affect this operation in any way; it will not affect the functioning of all other Hungarian or non-Hungarian universities. As a question of whether we have conducted an impact analysis, of course. We analyzed it, looked at what would happen after the law was passed, what situation we had to face, what could happen. A lot can happen. One is that foreign institutions outside the EEA fulfil this condition, i.e. an agreement is reached between the Hungarian government and the government there. [[13.10]] These agreements are characterised by the inclusion of cases for both parties that they will establish. I think that this will increase the quality of this cooperation for that educational institution. If this agreement is not concluded or is concluded at any other time, then the functioning of the Central European University will not be affected in any way. Professor Hiller then mentioned the value of ELTE or BME's degree. I think that you and I have been abroad several times, and no one has ever asked if our degree is accredited in America. The Budapest University of Technology, with the degree of ELTE, can take a job and can be taught at university. Therefore, the perceived competitive advantage resulting from this is probably not real, but even if it is real, CEU can do this in a number of ways in relation to the Central European University base. We have also looked at - and I am pleased that Jobbik's argument has changed since last night - the institutions that operate across the border and work excellently and well, whether the University of Partium or Sapientia, these are Romanian institutions in Romania, which are absolutely not the subject of analogy, as Romania is also the country of the European Economic Area, the free flow of services does not allow this. So I don't think this concern is that real. This would be real if there were an institution like CEU, which would otherwise be outside. If that's what we're trying to copy, that's exactly what this doesn't apply. I think that this relatively simple technical amendment will resolve the situation on which it was constantly intended. In today's debate, it has been said several times that people who wanted to create, eliminate and transform lex CEU. I think that this is going to work out, and that is why we are proposing that we close this. What I would like to say to Congressman Hadházy's concerns: I understand the reason for your concern there, but believe me, we have nothing in common. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-04-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Following is the T/14462 on the publication of the EU-LAC International Foundation Agreement. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur was Mr T/14462/3. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/14462. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 183 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows from the publication of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the SADC EPA States, of the other part, T/14463. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/14463. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 183 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Coming up on the European Union mission to train Somali security forces H/14285 adopting a report on a further Hungarian military contribution Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we will decide on the submitted text of the proposal for a decision in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/14285. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 161 votes in favour, no votes against, with 23 abstentions. Next up is T/14232 on the amendment of certain criminal law laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/14232/6. T/14232/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Gergely Bárándy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The MSZP Group proposed that Amendment 2 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Gergely Bárándy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the amendment. Please vote now. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 119 against and without abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/14232/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 128 votes in favour, 33 against and 23 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/14232/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 123 votes to 38, with 23 abstentions. Following is T/14237 on private international law. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/14237/10. T/14237/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 2 and 3 and of amendments Nos 4, 5 and 6. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Staudt Gábor. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 27 votes in favour, 124 against and 33 abstentions. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Staudt Gábor. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 24 votes in favour, 152 against and 7 abstentions. Amendment 4 is proposed by Mr Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 35 votes in favour, 149 against and without abstention. [[13.20]] Amendment 5 is also proposed by Mr Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 38 votes to 145 with one abstention. Amendment 6 is also proposed by Mrs Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 37 votes to 146 with 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/14237/10. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 146 votes in favour, 38 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/14237/14. a single proposal with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 146 votes in favour, 16 against and 22 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CCIV on national higher education follows. Law... [[Szabolcs Szabó stands up and sounds the siren in his hand. Noise. Moore in the pro-government benches. Interviews from Fidesz: Doctor!]] I'd like to see the room guards... [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell. Szabolcs Szabó will take the siren out of Szabó's hand.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Szabolcs Szabó: Now is the time to think about what you're voting for before you read it! Now's the time to think about it. You can do it now! Noise.]] Dear Parliament, I note that Szabolcs Szabó, an independent Member, has violated the rules of the illustration. I would like to draw the congressman's attention to the fact that Parliamentary Act 38/A. According to Article 5 of the Act, the application for an illustration or for a voice must be notified in advance not later than one hour before the meeting of the House Committee. I do not need to inform the Speaker of the violation of the rules of the illustration because he was a part of it. I would ask my fellow Members to continue to ensure the smooth functioning of the Parliament. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] So it's coming up next on national higher education [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] In addition, the Commission considers that the aid granted to Ryanair is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. T/14686. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. T/14686/12. T/14686/13. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of the House Rules, there is no possibility to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/14686/12. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 123 votes to 38, with no abstentions. Now, Honourable Parliament, the final vote follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/14686 accepts it. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the amended bill by 123 votes in favour, 38 against and without abstentions. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Representatives of the MSZP and the independents will withdraw from the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday the Parliament has already negotiated this. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by Bertalan Tóth, MSZP and its fellow Members, T/14327. I have tabled a bill tabled by Mr Bertalan Tóth MSZP, which I repeat. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the bill by 29 votes in favour, 123 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with disciplinary decisions. The decision to reduce the due fees of István Ikotity, R. Sallai Benedek, Bernadett Szél LMP, and Gergely Egyed and Gergely Kulcsár's rightful Members of Parliament. I would like to inform you that Mr. Speaker of the Parliament Act 51/A. According to paragraph 1 of Article 13 of the Act of Accession of the Republic of Croatia, the Court of Justice of the European Union shall have jurisdiction to rule on the application of Article 13 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. István Ikotity, R. Sallai Benedek, Bernadett Szél, LMP, and Gergely Egyed and Gergely Kulcsár ordered a reduction in the due fees of the rightful representatives. Members asked the immunity committee to repeal the decisions, but the committee did not agree in either case. Next, the Act on Parliament 51/A. Pursuant to Rule 9 of the Rules of Procedure, Members have asked the Parliament to repeal the decisions of the Speaker of the House. In view of this, the house rules are 148. H/14776, H/14774, H/14778, H/14772. and H/14773. in figures, the same content as the previous decisions imposing a reduction in Members' due fees. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the proposals for decisions, the related decisions of the Speaker of the House, the relevant requests made by its representatives and the decisions of the immunity committee have been made available on the website. [[13.30]] In accordance with Article 13 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 13 is replaced by the following: István Ikotity, R. Sallai Benedek, Bernadett Szél, LMP, and Gergely Egyed and Gergely Kulcsár ordered a reduction in the due fees of the rightful representatives. Members asked the immunity committee to repeal the decisions, but the committee did not agree in either case. Next, the Act on Parliament 51/A. Pursuant to Rule 9 of the Rules of Procedure, Members have asked the Parliament to repeal the decisions of the Speaker of the House. In view of this, the house rules are 148. H/14776, H/14774, H/14778, H/14772. and H/14773. in figures, the same content as the previous decisions imposing a reduction in Members' due fees. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the proposals for decisions, the related decisions of the Speaker of the House, the relevant requests made by its representatives and the decisions of the immunity committee have been made available on the website. (13.30) In accordance with the provisions of the House Rules, no proposal or Commission report may be submitted to amend the proposals for decisions. The Speaker's decisions on the reduction of the fee shall be decided by Parliament without discussion, separately for each representative. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether the decision of the Speaker to reduce the due fee of István Ikotity is maintained by H/14776. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 115 votes in favour, 30 votes against and no abstentions. I would like to ask Mr László Földi to present the text of the adopted decision.
u2017-04-04-89	The Parliament is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Act, hereinafter referred to as "Ogytv'. 51/A. István Ikotity, a Member of the Parliament, acting under the authority of Section 13 of the Acting Acting Acting on the Rights of István Ogytv. 51/A. On the basis of the request made by the President of the National Assembly pursuant to paragraph 9 of Section OE-40/247-1/2017. István Ikotity maintains his decision to reduce the due fee of the Member of Parliament, thereby reducing the due fee of István Ikotity's Member of Parliament by HUF 100,000.
u2017-04-04-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether the decision of the Speaker of the House to reduce the due fee of the congressman Sallai R. Benedict is maintained by H/14774. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament maintained the decision of the Speaker by 112 votes in favour, 30 votes against and no abstentions. I would like to ask Mr László Földi to explain the text of the adopted decision.
u2017-04-04-91	The Parliament is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Act, hereinafter referred to as "Ogytv'. 51/A. Acting under the authority of paragraph 13 of Section 13 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Ogytv. 51/A. On the basis of the request made by the President of the National Assembly pursuant to paragraph 9 of Section OE-40/247-1/2017. As a result, Parliamentary Representative Sallai R. Benedek's decision to reduce his due fee will be maintained in its scope, reducing the due fee of Parliamentary Representative Sallai R. Benedek by HUF 100,000.
u2017-04-04-92	I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the House President's decision to reduce the due fee of Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, Head of the Group, is maintained in the scope of the H/14778. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament maintained the decision of the Speaker by 109 votes in favour, 30 votes against and no abstentions. I would like to ask Mr László Földi to explain the text of the adopted decision.
u2017-04-04-93	The Parliament is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Act, hereinafter referred to as "Ogytv'. 51/A. Acting under the authority of Dr. Bernadett Szél, Parliamentary Representative of Ogytv. 51/A. On the basis of the request made by the President of the National Assembly pursuant to paragraph 9 of Section OE-40/247-1/2017. As a result, Dr. Bernadett Szél maintains his decision to reduce his due fee, which reduces the due fee of Mr Bernadett Szél by HUF 100,000.
u2017-04-04-94	Thank you, Mr. Notary. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the decision of the Speaker to reduce Mr Zsolt Egyed's due fees is maintained in the scope of the H/14772. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament maintained the decision of the Speaker by 108 votes in favour, 29 against and no abstentions. I would like to ask Mr László Földi to explain the text of the adopted decision.
u2017-04-04-95	The Parliament is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Act, hereinafter referred to as "Ogytv'. 51/A. Acting under the authority of Article 13 of the Acting Parliamentary Assembly Member Zsolt Egyed, Ogytv. 51/A. On the basis of the request made by the President of the National Assembly pursuant to paragraph 9 of Section OE-40/247-1/2017. As a result, Zsolt Egyed maintains his decision to reduce his due fee, which reduces the due fee of Zsolt Egyed Member of Parliament by HUF 50,000.
u2017-04-04-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains in its scope the decision of the Speaker to reduce Mr Gergely Kulcsár's due fee is set out in H/14773. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament maintained the decision of the Speaker by 108 votes in favour, 28 against, with one abstention. Mr László Földi, please describe the text of the decision adopted.
u2017-04-04-97	The Parliament is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Act, hereinafter referred to as "Ogytv'. 51/A. Acting in the power of paragraph 13 of Section 13 of the Act, Gergely Kulcsár is the Member of the Parliament of Ogytv. 51/A. On the basis of the request made by the President of the National Assembly pursuant to paragraph 9 of Section OE-40/247-1/2017. As a result, Gergely Kulcsár maintains his decision to reduce his due fee, and Gergely Kulcsár's due fee is reduced by HUF 50,000.
u2017-04-04-98	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of your decisions, thank you for your cooperation. We're taking a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] With all due respect, my fellow Members, either take their seats or take back the corridor or Kossuth Square, but ensure that our work is undisturbed. [[13.40]] Dear Parliament, A general debate will follow on the draft law between Hungary and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the publication of the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons until closure. Government referral T/14662. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2017-04-04-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill between Hungary and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the publication of the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons is to lay down rules on the transfer of sentenced persons between Hungary and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, in order to allow them to serve their sentence in their own State in order to facilitate the reintegration of prisoners into society. The Convention lays down the conditions for the transfer of sentenced persons and the grounds for refusal, the documents to be sent for the purpose of carrying out the procedure, the central authorities designated to send and receive requests for transfer, the rules for the execution of judgments received, the rules for the obligation to provide information between the parties and the sentenced person. The Convention provides for transit, use of languages, bearing costs, relations with other international treaties and dispute resolution. It is necessary to publish the Convention by law, since it is necessary to take a position on issues which also affect the fundamental rights and obligations of citizens. On matters not covered by the Convention, the 1996 XXXVIII on international assistance in criminal matters. The provisions of law shall prevail. Dear House, The Convention shall enter into force only if the provisions of the Convention are published by the States Parties in accordance with their national law. I therefore ask you to support the bill, following its discussion, in voting with your consent. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-04-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have the keynote speeches in 15 minutes' time. I give the floor first to Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-04-04-101	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, According to the general justification of the bill, the conclusion of the convention is justified by the growing bilateral economic and legal relationship between Hungary and Vietnam. Let us briefly review this ever-expanding relationship system. In recent years, the centre of the world economy has increasingly shifted towards Asia, Southeast Asia. In particular, Vietnam stands out. This is why the Hungarian government attaches an important role to its relations with Vietnam in the Eastern opening policy. Hungary's contacts capital in Vietnam, its decades of cooperation, and its experience in political and economic restructuring in the years after the change of regime provide a good basis for the continuous expansion of bilateral cooperation in more and more areas. We are proud that Hungarian companies have built a water network in a province of Vietnam within the framework of the tied aid loan scheme, and Hungarian companies have also started to build a population register system in the country. The two countries have been in diplomatic relations for over 60 years. During this time, the Vietnamese intellectuals in higher education institutions in Hungary are estimated to be about 5,000 people. Many of them became known in their country as scientists, public figures, such as ministers, but many also work in the field of trade. Hungary doubled the number of students of the State Scholarship Programme Stipendium Hungaricum in Vietnam in 2015. We know that one of the best foundations for long-term, predictable economic cooperation is people-to-people relations. This is why Hungary's participation in higher education institutions is of great importance for Vietnamese students. The high-level visits are common: Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén and Vice-President János Latorcai in spring 2015, President László Kövér in autumn 2015, Vice-President Gergely Gulyás negotiated this January in Vietnam. We look forward to the forthcoming visit of the president of the Vietnam National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports the conclusion of this new convention and proposes that the Parliament adopt it. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-04-102	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I note that Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP group, has indicated that he is not present. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-04-04-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, as has been said before, a closer relationship between Hungary and Vietnam is being established with the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. This is also very important because Vietnam is a country in the Southeast Asian region where economic development has been extremely high in recent years. What we know is that Vietnam is a socialist country, which still considers itself a socialist country, but in the mid-'80s, it has strayed from the Marxist economic direction it had previously taken, and what was typical of the socialist countries, and is trying to go about the same path that China is doing. So the one-party system remains, the pro-state system remains, but the economy has been liberalised or the economic factors have been changed, so they have strayed from the Marxist stance. This has brought great economic development to the region, which was typical and which Hungary, for example, would like to achieve. The day after we heard Minister János Lázár's reasoning on the need to put the Hungarian economy on a path where there would be lasting and significant economic growth. And here you have explained, Minister, that this economic development should be at least 4-5 percent, and this should last for years. Now, this was in Vietnam, because they could produce 7-8 percent economic development and annual GDP growth, and they could achieve a minimum of 7 percent economic growth for more than a decade. I think this can also be a good example for Hungary, although this has not brought with it such a comprehensive development, wages are still low in the country, and Vietnam is still in need of development in many ways. But this economic development shows that he is one of the little tigers in Asia, and it is very important for Hungary to maintain as much economic relations as possible with this country as possible. Obviously, in addition to economic relations, the many connections that my fellow Member, Mónika Dunai, has described, which are between the members of Parliament and its officials in both countries, there is also a need for us to move forward in the area of justice. Thus, it is also very important to have the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons before us, which is now subject to Parliament's approval. The purpose of this transfer is also very important. [[13.50]] Clearly, the most fundamental problem with criminal proceedings is whether or not prisoners can fit back into society, whether they can still be useful members of society. This is what this law wants to promote, and it clearly states among its principles that this legislation would be created to facilitate the reintegration of prisoners into society. Obviously, if a Vietnamese citizen, a Vietnamese national, is convicted here in Hungary, he is in a detention facility, in an environment where he cannot speak to his partners, he cannot use his mother tongue in contact, so the chances of his reintegration into society are greatly reduced. In the event that there is an appropriate agreement and the sentenced person asks - it is very important that this cannot be done without the consent of the sentenced person - and the country where the person is staying offers to transfer a Hungarian citizen from Vietnam or Vietnam to Hungary, then we can talk about the fact that this agreement, which will thus rise to the level of law, will enter into force. I think that it is in the interest of society in any case that this really happens. This Convention lays down the conditions for transit and the conditions for the conduct of the whole transaction in particular. I believe that conditions have been established on the basis of what practice already requires for many other countries. Under the conditions, it is also necessary to consider it as a criminal offence in the host country, so it cannot be that what is a criminal offence in Hungary may not be a crime in Vietnam, and it will be released immediately, because it is not a criminal offence according to the host country, so it must be released. So an important condition is that it should also be a criminal offence under the law of the host country, at least as if it had been committed in its territory. Being a citizen of the host party is obviously a fundamental issue, since why move it to another country if they had nothing to do with it. It is also very important that everyone agrees on this, both the transporter, the receiving party and the person concerned, so that the sentenced person and, in some cases, his legal representative can contribute to the transfer. Of course, it doesn't make sense if by the time the entire transfer procedure is completed, the person is already serving his sentence. That's why there's a condition that there's a sentence of at least a year left. In this case, it makes sense to transfer him to the host country, the country he belongs to. I think it is in both countries' interests that this be signed. The Convention itself clearly regulates costs, and there is no debate in this. Obviously, the costs will always be borne by those who accept it, it works back and forth, so the costs are likely to be offset in the longer term, so that no damage is caused to the states. I think that this is in the interests of both parties and that this bill should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-04-104	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I don't see an independent congressman in the room. They didn't check in for two minutes. No further contributions were made. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. Secretary of State Völner indicates that he does not wish to respond. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general debate on the draft law on the publication of the extradition agreement between Hungary and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam will follow. Government referral T/14663. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2017-04-04-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The purpose of the bill on the publication of the extradition agreement between Hungary and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is to establish a legal framework for the extradition procedure between Hungary and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. The Convention defines the scope of extradition offences, the mandatory and reasonable grounds for refusing extradition, sets out the central authorities designated to send and receive extradition requests, the content and the mandatory annexes to the extradition request, and settles cases of transfer to a third State or of conflict of extradition requests. The Convention provides for the application of the principle of speciality, simplified extradition, temporary arrest, transfer or deferral of the person, the institution of temporary extradition and transit. The Convention also contains provisions on confiscation, cost bearing, relation to other international treaties and dispute resolution. It is necessary to publish the Convention by law, since it is necessary to take a position on issues which also affect the fundamental rights and obligations of citizens. On matters not covered by the Convention, the 1996 XXXVIII on the international criminal law. The provisions of law shall prevail. Dear House, The Convention shall enter into force only if the provisions of the Convention are published by the States Parties in accordance with their national law. I therefore ask that, after discussing the bill, you support it with your consent during the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-04-106	Thank you, Secretary of State Völner. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-04-04-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Economic relations between Hungary and Vietnam have developed very dynamically over the past few years, which is also well demonstrated by the fact that last year we exported $76.1 million to the South East Asian country, which is a significant 13.2 percent increase compared to the previous year. About a hundred domestic and Vietnamese companies have conducted bilateral business negotiations. Hungary's aim is to further increase trade flows between the two countries, to which the cooperation already established is an excellent basis. Vietnam remains one of the most promising export markets for Hungarian companies in the Southeast Asian region. The country's economy is developing rapidly, with GDP growth of 5-6 percent per year in recent years. Thanks to its market of approximately 90 million people, and to the fact that the country's economy can exploit Hungarian technologies, expertise and business potential in many sectors, Hungarian companies have significant business potential. Agriculture, the food industry, energy, infocommunication, the vehicle and environment industry, the health industry or the development of infrastructure could still have untapped business opportunities in the economic relations systems of the two countries. This is why it is very important that more and more bilateral agreements are concluded between the two countries, as this will not only give rise to economic relations, but also give rise to a system of relations between the two countries, legal cooperation. Mr President, Whatever the socialists say today - if they were here, they would certainly tell us - this relationship system was not important to them, which is most apparent from the fact that the Hungarian Consulate in Ho Chi Minh was closed in 2006. About two years ago, we reopened this, which contributed significantly to the results listed above. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports the publication of a new convention. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.00]]
u2017-04-04-108	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. The next lead speaker is Mr Csaba Gyure, on behalf of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-04-04-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have a similar draft legislation or a decision approving a convention as on the previous item, and also for Vietnam and Hungary. In this case, however, we are talking about the extradition treaty, not transit. As I mentioned in my previous comment, on the previous agenda, Vietnam is a dynamically developing country, not only because of its economic development, but also because of its territorial size and population size, it is important that cooperation between Hungary and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is as broad as possible. We are talking about a country the size of Germany, about three and a half times the size of Hungary, and its population is nearly ten times that of Hungary, so it is a country with a population well above Germany. When we talk about its economic development, which has been unbroken for more than 20 years, we say that cooperation must be promoted as widely as possible. That is also the case in the area of justice, so it is important that an extradition treaty be established. This is precedented, they were born in the mid-'80s, but obviously it is necessary again, as this is required by the changed circumstances that have been going on in the world since then, in order for a new, more modern agreement to come into force between us. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The Preamble of the Convention says why it is being created. Because of law enforcement, the enforcement of judgments, the fight against organised crime and terrorism are the fundamental objectives that encourage these states, the two states which conclude contracts, to establish this agreement. Why is extradition necessary? I think it is very, very important that an extradition agreement be concluded with as many countries as possible. In fact, the best way would be for every country to have an extradition treaty with every country in the world. Why is that necessary? I believe that extradition agreements have a very good preventive effect on the commission of criminal offences, and have a preventive role to play. Because, obviously, a criminal who commits a larger, larger-scale crime and is aware that he has an escape route will be able to escape from the execution of the sentence, from being punished against him, from being punished, from being able to flee to a country where he will not be caught by law enforcement agencies, will not be able to carry out the punishment against him, he will obviously be easier to commit this crime. After all, he may not have to fear that the penalty will actually reach him. It is therefore easier to carry out the plot. [[László Földi is replaced by Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat.]] Obviously, when you know that there are countries you can go to and never publish, your fate is easier. We have seen this recently in the case of Karcag, when the famous person from the broker's scandal fled to Central America, confident that he would not be subject to the Hungarian jurisdiction without an extradition agreement. Well, you were wrong about that, too. We hope that as many criminals as possible will be punished by the fact that as many countries as possible will have our extradition treaty. In this way, they will not be able to escape the penalty, from the execution of the penalty. The way the treaty begins is very important. "Acquisition obligation," says Article 1. So it's not an option to release it, but it's also possible for the criminal to flee to the country. This is an extradition obligation, when we talk about it, the state is obliged to issue the criminal that the other state is looking for, obviously if certain conditions are met. These are set out in detail in the draft legislation and in the Convention, as well as in detail the reasons for the refusal of extradition. It is obviously very important here that if there is a political crime in the other state that you have committed, extradition may be refused or denied. Obviously, this should also be refused when the requested person is a national of the requested party. In this case, too, extradition must be denied. In this regard, I would refer to a congressman who used to sit here, theoretically, on the left behind my back. But he doesn't sit here because he doesn't really come in. It is called Ferenc Gyurcsány, who was also the Prime Minister of Hungary, unfortunately; unfortunately, too long, and unfortunately in itself, the fact that he was a Prime Minister is a big problem. At the time when there was a diplomatic conflict between Slovakia and Hungary, he offered those persons, the Hungarian citizens who were affected by this diplomatic conflict, to be released to Slovakia if Slovakia requests the extradition of these Hungarian citizens, because it intends to prosecute them for criminal offences. The consequences of the events in 2006 were those events that affected the relationship between the two countries at the time. And it was Ferenc Gyurcsány who had no regard for the Hungarian constitution or the extradition agreements. Because of the hatred of the national feeling in itself, he would have crossed the Constitution and bilateral bilateral relations, and he would have gladly issued Hungarian citizens to other states, as he said. But it is clear here that in this case, what we are regulating in this agreement, this cannot happen. After all, the party, i.e. a Hungarian citizen, cannot be given to Vietnam on the basis of this contract by the Hungarian State. Obviously, it is also very important that if they want to prosecute the person they want against because of his race, gender, religion, political convictions, then they can also not be issued. Obviously, the statute of limitations must also be taken into account according to Hungarian law. If that crime has expired in Hungary, it cannot be issued. And if the person has been acquitted, that's another reason to refuse. The question of the death penalty: I didn't look into whether there was a death penalty in Vietnam. But obviously, if an agreement is concluded with a country where there is still a death penalty, it cannot be issued to that country if it is expected or even the possibility of a death penalty being imposed on it. The law prohibits this unless the host State provides an adequate guarantee that the death penalty will not be imposed on it. In this connection, the law also defines the central authorities that act in these matters, so the Ministry of Justice in Hungary and the Ministry of Public Security in Vietnam, which, in such cases, conducts and conducts these official matters. I think that the Convention itself covers all the important things, properly regulates relations between the two states, and the person involved in extradition and the procedural acts involved, and the rights, obligations and possibilities of this person. On this basis, I believe that, as in the previous bilateral agreement with Vietnam, this is acceptable and eligible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Ander Balázs applauds.]]
u2017-04-04-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As the LMP Group does not take part in the debate, we have reached the end of the keynote speeches. Independent Members also do not participate in the debate; no one has applied for a two-minute speech. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to reply. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that it is possible to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the laws governing EU and international cooperation in criminal matters, and on the legislative amendment of other related laws for harmonisation purposes, pending closure. The government referral is T/14683. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[14.10]]
u2017-04-04-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, According to the Treaty on European Union, the Union offers its citizens an area of freedom, security and justice without internal borders, where ensuring the free movement of persons is accompanied by appropriate measures for the control of external borders, asylum, immigration, crime prevention and law enforcement. The creation of an area of freedom, security and justice, as mentioned in the cited paragraph, cannot be imagined without effective law enforcement, one of the essential means of which is criminal assistance, criminal cooperation between Member States. In view of recent unfortunate events, the effectiveness of cooperation between authorities in criminal matters should be further increased. In order to achieve this goal, the harmonisation of legislation in this area, the development of the rights of individual international and EU institutions have been and has undergone a continuous and significant change over the last decades. The bill before you therefore concerns primarily the area of EU and international criminal and criminal law cooperation, but contains amendments to certain areas of criminal substantive law, criminal law and the criminal record system. In addition, it contains technical amendments. Allow me to present the bill in the following light of the actual issues of the amendment. Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on a European Investigation Order issued in criminal matters, the transposition deadline for which expires on 22 May 2017, aims to simplify and improve legal assistance in criminal matters between Member States of the European Union. Uniform, formalised cooperation includes more detailed rules for the submission, decisions and enforcement of requests for assistance than the provisions in force. In accordance with the Directive, the bill applies a simpler dogmatic approach to decisions taken by the issuing and implementing Member States, in addition to the introduction of formal requirements and strict deadlines. Different practices on the basis of the existing institutional system, often leading to unjustified administrative burdens and costs in the European Union, have made legal assistance cooperation difficult and delayed in time. The European Investigation Order, based on a single and simple approach, makes it clear that the Member States themselves justify the legal basis and the legality of their proceedings by issuing the European Investigation Order. In the European Investigation Decision, the responsibility for the legality of emissions lies clearly with the issuing Member State, which is in line with the EU principle of mutual recognition of decisions and is clearly in line with the same set of EU institutions. The priority of the responsibility of the issuing Member State to this extent is a significant step forward, which, however, is a legitimate expectation in an international legal system which is based on the principle of mutual trust. The changes in the law described justify a complete adaptation of the rules on legal aid in criminal matters in respect of the Member States applying the Directive. This will be done by amending the Law on Criminal Cooperation with the Member States of the European Union. In view of the fact that the scope of the European Investigation Order also applies to acts sanctioned as an infringement, it is appropriate to amend the Law on Legal Assistance in Violations in a coherent manner. Certain legal institutions involved in the European Investigation Decision have not changed substantially. At the same time, it is a major innovation that it will be possible in the future within the European Union to temporarily transfer or transfer persons in detention, whether in prison or in pre-trial detention, in order to enable them to carry out procedural acts in the issuing Member State to which the presence of the defendant is strictly necessary. This can only be done by issuing a European Arrest Warrant under the rules in force. The new legal institution, bearing in mind the principle of gradualness and proportionality, will provide law enforcement with a new effective instrument, which fits well into the existing institutional system, but which is less intervention than the European Arrest Warrant in the case of proceedings involving persons in detention abroad. In the context of the transposition of the European Investigation Order, the law on criminal proceedings and the law on judicial enforcement were also justified in order to ensure legal coherence. The current text of the Criminal Code does not fully meet international requirements in terms of its legislation on terrorism. The preparation of the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the fight against terrorism and the replacement of the Council Framework Decision on the fight against terrorism was essentially completed at the end of November 2016, and the text of the draft directive can be considered as substantive and substantive. On the basis of the draft directive, travel for terrorist purposes and the organisation of travel for such purposes should also be punished in order to combat foreign terrorist fighters more effectively if their purpose is to commit acts of terrorism, to participate in terrorist acts, to contribute to terrorist acts, or to participate in the activities of a terrorist group or to train for terrorism. In essence, the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism provides for the same punishment for travelling abroad, the organisation and financing of such travel for the purpose of committing or participating in, or contributing to, acts of terrorism, as well as training for terrorism. The report of the Council of Europe monitoring group on the effectiveness of anti-money laundering measures also noted minor technical shortcomings in the case of the criminal code on terrorist financing. In view of these, it was necessary to supplement and amend the Criminal Code in order to ensure effective and uniform international action in the field of terrorism. The Court of Justice of the European Union delivered a judgment in Balogh on 9 June 2016. The Court held that EU law is contrary to the Hungarian legislation on the recognition of foreign judgments, which provides for the full and systematic application of the procedure of recognition in respect of the judgments of the Member States. In view of the court's judgment, it has become inevitable to adapt the legal environment of foreign law, including those relating to the enforcement of national judgments. At the same time, it should be noted that the current system of foreign judgments is based on the provisions of the Law on Legal Assistance in International Criminal Matters, which is rooted in the Council of Europe before the EU legal system based on the principle of mutual recognition and mutual trust. Since then, however, there has been significant progress in the area of the legal basis, and the number of judgments of the Member States affecting Hungarian citizens has increased several times. Prior to Hungary's accession to the EU, foreign judgments were recognised in no more than a few hundred cases per year. Today, the number of judgments sent by the Member States via the European Criminal Records Information System involving Hungarian citizens has increased to several thousand annually, increasing steadily, and is expected to reach tens of thousands in the near future. It is clear that the procedure of recognition in force, which is difficult with significant administrative burdens, has become inadequate to ensure that Member States' judgments are enforced. However, since the accession of the country to the EU, this system has not been revised, so the establishment of an effective system to ensure full compliance with the legal consequences of the judgments of the Member States was not only a timely issue because of the Balogh judgment. During the preparation of the bill, including with the involvement of the National Court of Justice, the High Prosecutor's Office and the Criminal Records Office, we reviewed the importance of criminal convictions handed down by the courts of the EU and non-EU States in relation to Hungarian criminal proceedings, the established case law and the available statistical data. [[14.20]] On this basis, there has been a clear professional consensus in the context of the need to treat the enforcement of national judgments and the enforcement of judgments of so-called third non-EU foreign states in a separate legal system. As a general rule, as regards national judgments, direct enforcement should be ensured and only in exceptional cases, as defined by law, Member States' judgments should be brought into line with Hungarian law. The task of matching is to ensure that the provisions of the national judgment apply in a non-discriminatory manner, in the same way as those of a Hungarian judgment in the same case, with the same legal consequences. On the other hand, in the case of third States, it was justified to remove the uncertainty in the case-law which provided for the direct enforcement of judgments of third States on certain matters, in other cases only after the recognition procedure. In this context, a unanimous professional consensus has been reached in the context of the fact that a single case-law, the uniform application of judgments of third States, can only be ensured by the fact that, in the case of third States, the judgment can only take place after the procedure for recognition has been carried out, i.e. the procedure for recognition must be clearly complete. This expectation should also be particularly justified in the light of the fact that, under the judgment of the third country, not only the Council of Europe Member States, but also any country on earth, should be understood. The amendment and clarification of the law on international legal assistance in criminal matters ensure that the judgments of third States are complied with. As regards the Member States of the European Union, the Act on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union introduces the legal institutions of non-discriminatory compliance to ensure the direct enforcement of the judgments of the Member States and to ensure that the consequences of non-discrimination are equivalent to those laid down in Hungarian legislation. Taking into account is a legal framework requiring a court, prosecutor's office or investigating authority in criminal matters to ensure, in their own proceedings, that the judgments of the Member States are enforced without any specific procedure, if it is not contrary to the established system of conditions. In this context, of course, the amendment of the law on criminal proceedings could not be missed. Compliance, on the other hand, is a separate procedure carried out by a designated court, which may, however, be carried out only in a narrow manner in the cases provided for in the law. The proposal ensures that a procedure which assumes sufficient skill in this regard is carried out by a specialised court with exclusive competence. Just because of practical experience and the need for effectiveness, in certain cases, when a penalty or measure is taken, the proposal will remove this rigid commitment and appoint a court empowered to take over compliance. It also ensures that the requirement for efficiency and timeliness is met, so that compliance is carried out only to the extent necessary for the decision on which it is based, so as to avoid undue examination of provisions that are not linked to the decision. At the same time, it is accompanied by the facilitation of supplementing and correcting the compliance decision. As a result of the Balogh judgment, the regulation of the entry of foreign judgments into the Hungarian criminal register also had to be reviewed. When reviewing the regulation of the criminal record system, it was also necessary to take into account, in addition to the adaptation of recognition and compliance, that, according to the current rules, the judgment of the Member States concerning the Hungarian citizen must be recognised, but this does not apply fully in practice, because the system in force is incapable of dealing with the very large number of judgments of the Member States. Therefore, the system of compulsory recognition cannot be maintained only on the basis of the Balogh judgment, but its maintenance is not effective from an administrative point of view, because it imposes an obligation to carry out recognition regardless of whether it is actually necessary or not. On this basis, there may currently be situations in which a person can receive an official certificate of morality with a Member State's judgment excluding that in the register of national judgments but not being taken into account. In view of the above, the proposal introduces a system capable of ensuring at regulatory level that national authorities acting outside criminal proceedings, in all cases where there is a real need to take account of the judgment of the Member States in their proceedings, can verify it in the relevant proceedings and initiate a sufficiently flexible procedure. Therefore, the proposal does not put forward any outstanding tasks for the criminal record body, but can be achieved by establishing a closed system at regulatory level rather than a system that has not been sufficiently effective so far, and should not result in an official certificate of morality being handed down to a Member State, otherwise excluding it. Mr President, Dear House, The adoption of the bill not only ensures the fulfilment of Hungary's international and European Union obligations, but also makes significant progress towards effective criminal law cooperation, but also rationalises and increases the effectiveness of the application of several legal institutions for which the review of the legislation was in itself timely. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support T/14683. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-04-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Répássy Robert, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-04-04-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice has just described in detail the bill, which my group supports. I would like to highlight from the detailed presentation the elements that we consider to be important and for which we support the bill. The bill concerns primarily EU and international criminal cooperation, but the amendments concern several areas of substantive, criminal and criminal record systems. Basically, technical amendments are included in the bill. The main reason for the bill is that the procedure for the recognition of foreign judgments must be re-regulated, as the Court of Justice of the European Union has found in a Hungarian case that the special procedure for the recognition of foreign judgments governed by the criminal law is contrary to EU law. However, it is worth noting that the Hungarian procedure for the recognition of foreign judgments is contrary to the law of the European Union only in so far as it concerns automatic and not individual cases. Therefore, the bill already states, in accordance with the law of the Union, that recognition of foreign judgments should always be applied to individual cases. The next aspect, the reason for the amendment, is to make cross-border investigations simpler and faster. This is because a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council was adopted in 2014 allowing judicial authorities in EU Member States to request the collection and transfer of evidence in another EU State in the light of the principles of mutual recognition. The third is a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council replacing the Council Framework Decision on combating terrorism, which, although it was born, has not yet been published. [[14.30]] However, it is right to take this final directive into account in this bill, and to this end, the small amount of psychoactive substance will be reworded in the Criminal Code and in the legislation on infringement procedures, infringements and record-keeping. The fourth reason why we need to amend our legislation is the new system for taking account of foreign judgments in domestic proceedings, and therefore we need to amend our criminal record system, i.e. ensure that foreign judgments are properly brought into line with the law of the European Union and, of course, with the interests of those involved. Finally, in the case of the Council of Europe Convention on Money Laundering, Searching for Crime and Financing of Terrorism, we are withdrawing a Hungarian reservation and, as a result, the original convention can be fully enforced. So, Honourable House, I have listed at least five reasons why we support the bill and I call on the House to support it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-04-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-04-04-115	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Union has set itself the objective of offering its citizens an area of freedom, security and justice without internal borders, where ensuring the free movement of persons is accompanied by appropriate measures on crime prevention and law enforcement. This objective requires that information on judgments given in the Member States be taken into account outside the Member State of judgment in a new criminal procedure or in order to prevent criminal offences. The exchange of information extracted from criminal records between the competent authorities of the Member States is a prerequisite. The exchange of information on criminal convictions is important for any strategy to combat crime and terrorism. It is important because we need to protect our country from international criminal organizations as well as terrorists. The bill is also important in facilitating criminal justice measures against radicalisation leading to terrorism and violent extremism. Recent terrorist attacks, just yesterday in St. Petersburg, have highlighted the urgent need to increase the intensity of the sharing of relevant information, in particular with regard to the extension to third-country nationals. As a result, a system should be put in place to enable the central authorities of the Member States to easily and effectively investigate in which Member State the information on the criminal record of a third-country national is kept. In order to compensate for the fact that information on a specific third-country national is not kept in a single Member State, decentralised information technology should allow the central authorities of the Member States to check that another Member State holds criminal record information. To this end, each central authority should allocate to the other Member States a code containing identity data of third-country nationals convicted in an anonymised form. Personal data shall be anonymised in such a way that data subjects cannot be identified. The receiving Member State may, on a hit or no hit basis, provide such information with its own information, so that it can determine whether or not the other Member States have access to criminal record information or, in the case of a hit, in which Member States. Ladies and Gentlemen, The purpose of the bill is to facilitate mutual legal assistance in criminal matters and to ensure mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters, simplify procedures for the transmission of documents between Member States, by establishing a single European forum which, through forms and codes, allows the exchange of such information in a uniform, electronic, comprehensible and automatic translation form. In view of the above, the aim of the bill is that the 2012 CLXXX on criminal cooperation with the Member States of the European Union. Act No 19 of 1998 on criminal proceedings and, in this context, Act No XIX of 1998 on criminal proceedings By amending the Act, the unjustified systematic recognition procedure should be removed from the Hungarian procedure and not only formally but also substantively comply with the ECRIS decisions. Ladies and Gentlemen, They should know that the transposition deadline for Directive 2014/41/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on European Investigation Decisions issued in criminal matters expires on 22 May this year. By that date, Member States should lay down the measures to ensure that the provisions of this Directive are complied with by Member States. [[István Szávay will take his place in the notary seat.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill also amends Annex II of 2012 on the infringement, infringement procedure and the infringement registration system. The provisions of Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code, which define a small amount of new psychoactive substances. In view of the development of European Union and international law, it has also become necessary for Btk. amending the criminal provisions relating to terrorism and terrorist financing and, in this context, technical corrections to a number of other legislation. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the light of the above, the bill introduces a system capable of ensuring at regulatory level that, in all cases where there is a real need to take account of the judgment of the Member States in the proceedings of the national authorities, it is verified by the authorities in their respective proceedings and can be complied with by a sufficiently flexible procedure. Ladies and Gentlemen, KDNP supports T/14683 on the amendment of the laws governing EU and international criminal cooperation and related other laws for harmonisation purposes. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-04-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-04-04-117	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, Perhaps the proposal is more important than the number of Members present in the Chamber, although it is a fact that there is a technical - in many ways it can be said to be a technical proposal - and I do not think that there will be too much debate between us. Perhaps I would like to draw attention to what my fellow Member Vejkey said that the transposition deadline expires in mid-May, the second half of May, perhaps on the 22nd. What I always say is that we shouldn't cut it so hard, it's usually a warning that we speak from our representatives to the government, because the government is submitting these proposals through ministers. These should be done in time, all the more so, because if its content is useful, we should not wait for the entry into force and the adaptation of Hungarian legislation, by transposing the exact compliances required by the directive. [[14.40]] After all, in this case, the forward-looking processes which, in this case, I must say, are eligible are already taking place on the part of the Hungarian Parliament. As has been pointed out before me, it is a fundamental, eminent need that when a criminal proceeding is conducted against a national of a Member State, another authority, a court, is carried out, it should be entered in the register of the Member State of nationality and, therefore, still be possible to be questioned in the future, to be accessible or to be taken into account by the courts or other investigating authorities. At the moment, this will be implemented in such a way as to make it as automatic as possible so that, as I have said, the Member State of that nationality will record this and, obviously, if a judgment is delivered against its national, the State of registry should be notified as soon as possible and in such a way as not to require a specific procedure to be entered in the register of the Member States of nationality. Of course, the XXI. Based on 20th century systems, they can be registered through quasi-form forms, i.e. pre-specified systems. In some cases, there may be a problem that the judgment given in a country in another country is precisely, if there are differences between the legal systems, how, in what way to be interpreted, there are other procedures for this to be clarified, but it is also true, and I agree that in most cases, this is not even the case, and these judgments can be easily transcended or easily interpreted by the authorities of the other Member State. The system of this is the ECRIS system, which has been mentioned here several times before me, which started its operation in April 2012 and the updating and effectiveness of the exchange of information can ensure that a previous judgment is not left without a sanction in order to be taken into account even for a criminal record. I also have to say that I was happy to read it, because the question might arise about what happened to third-country nationals then, this was a regulatory deficiency, because if a person is a national of a country or a Member State, then he was obviously already included in this system in an applicable way, and there was a country that registered his sentences and judgments. Obviously, if we are talking about a third-country national, this could not have happened, and in this case it seems that the adoption of a new proposal for a directive may also be a solution, which already makes the previous conviction of third-country nationals in another Member State available to all Member States. What I am saying is that if this is a well-functioning system, this may be even more important if it is possible to say this than the system in place for EU citizens, because the different legal aid procedures between EU countries can also take place faster, the different authorities, even the different ministries, will understand the voice faster if this is to happen than a third-country national. Moreover, we have seen that the migration or immigration, refugee situation - we can talk about both, because not only refugees have appeared at the southern border sections, but there were a lot of people who appeared there as economic immigrants - well, in this case it doesn't matter how much condemnation within the Union, in another Member State, will be able to be made clear to the other Member States in the future, and how well they will be able to establish the history of such a person, if they say, even commit another crime, to take this into account by the authority carrying out the procedure in question. So we're hoping this system will work. The two-thirds provisions thus appear to be technical, so there is nothing in it that does not fall within these regulatory systems, so at the moment I consider the proposal to be forward-looking. Of course, depending on whether or not there will be an amending proposal, we will form our opinions, but for the time being, I can say that the direction includes the transfer of a good EU act or several EU acts, so I have to say that it can be supported in this form. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-04-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As the LMP Group has not set up a keynote speaker, we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. Independent Members shall not take part in the debate. No one came forward for a two-minute speech. As regards further speeches by its Members, I would like to ask if anyone would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State points out, as rapporteur, that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain domestic laws until closure. The government referral is T/14680. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2017-04-04-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The submission of a bill before you serves a double purpose. It serves, on the one hand, to transpose changes in EU and international legislation in the meantime through domestic legislation and, on the other hand, to transfer legislative corrections due to the experience gained in the field of applied law. The Ministry of Interior considers cooperation with parliamentary factions to be particularly important, in this context we held a five-party consultation with representatives of parliamentary factions at the invitation of Interior Minister Sándor Pintér before submitting this bill to the government, not before submitting it to the House, but before submitting it to the Government. This was a two-round consultation, the first time they could give their views orally on the whole bill, and in the second step they could submit their proposals in writing on the bill. They then had the opportunity to comment on the norm in writing, as I said, so that we could put a proposal on the table at the government meeting, which we could discuss with the political groups in several rounds, and we presented the proposal with an understanding of the opinions of the political groups. The proposal amends 21 laws, namely the LXVI of 2003 on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses. Act XCVII of 2016 on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the prevention of illegal gambling. until the amendment of the law. I would like to point out now, Honourable Parliament, the amendment of four laws or four subjects and describe the substance of the proposal in this regard. I would like to briefly present to this House amendments to the rules of access to police-managed surveillance cameras concerning the reliability of the so-called protected stock, the legal basis for the on-the-spot fine of field guards and amendments to the rules of electronic administration. [[14.50]] Dear Parliament, Practical experience has shown that, in order to avoid corruption pressure on government officials, it is appropriate to extend the scope of the reliability assessment to include members of the judicial expert institution who are employed in the judicial field and, on the other hand, to certain persons employed in the public sector. In the future, we wish to avoid cases in which unauthorized persons have received original Hungarian documents with certificates of nationality and documents of naturalisation in another name, and therefore the scope of the reliability investigation is extended to administrators acting in the course of issuing the documents. The bill also provides for the possibility that the reliability test can be carried out against a member of the body serving within a particular area of activity, but even unknown at the time of the order, because some of the reliability tests fail according to experience because an artificial life situation cannot arise due to a change in the duty schedule. This may be due, for example, to illness or other unforeseen causes. The bill also proposes an extension of the reliability assessment, since a significant part of the reliability tests are linked to an administrative procedure. The deadline for their administration may exceed the 15-day deadline for the reliability assessment and it is therefore important to extend the period. That is what the bill proposes. Dear Parliament, The bill would allow the public emergency services to access the footage of the surveillance cameras handled by the police. Real-time insights make it possible to perform medical rescue activities in a professional and effective manner, while at the same time being sufficiently safe. The CCTV images can be monitored not by the rescue ambulance crew, but by the Central Steering Group, which guarantees compliance with data protection requirements. Dear Parliament, On the basis of this bill, field guards will be entitled, if the bill is adopted, to impose an on-the-spot fine on persons who have shown unlawful conduct. The bill therefore also promotes state efforts to maintain public order and enhance public security. Dear Parliament, From 1 January 2018, electronic contact between public and municipal bodies will become mandatory, most of the data will be sent to each other by electronic means. The bill refers to the central government service bus as a new service, which will be used by the public bodies subject to e-administration during the automatic transmission of information. Furthermore, further major innovations are the protection of electronic data, records and mandatory backups. The body designated by the government to keep the data will, of course, not be entitled to access the data, on the contrary: its mandate is solely about data security. The government is authorised, according to the proposal submitted, to regulate by regulation the procedures for the use of certain government electronic administration services, so that they can handle their banking matters from a distance, without personal appearance, with the help of the ID or customer gate. This also has the advantage for users that they no longer need to keep separate passwords for each case and can now use reliable services provided by the State. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that I have managed to convince you that the proposals tabled during the present Expoze and the five-party negotiations will receive the support of the majority of Members, and we trust that the bill serves the right and worthy of their support, i.e. the public interest, including in particular the fight against corruption, the promotion of rescue services and the creation of e-administration. I therefore ask my honourable Members, the Honourable Parliament, to discuss, support and accept this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-04-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Simon Miklós, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-04-121	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill, presented by the Minister of the Interior, serves both to comply with EU standards and to address practical problems in the application of law and to integrate experience into the legal system. In addition, the bill introduces new legal institutions to improve the effectiveness of procedures and proposes amendments to the text of certain existing facts. The bill will make the activities of law enforcement and law enforcement bodies more effective, and will provide clarification to national law enforcement bodies in order to ensure more effective and effective international cooperation with the co-organisations of EU Member States. In order to deal with practical experience, a number of laws would be amended by this proposal, including law on police, national security services and infringement and infringement procedures. The details and reasons for the amendments have been explained in detail by the Secretary of State, so I would not comment on this separately. Among the main elements of the bill, I would like to highlight the amendment of the law on police and the law on national security services. The Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association Group agrees with the amendment contained in the bill that would extend the scope of the reliability investigation to employees of the judicial expert institution and to persons employed in the public sector with specific tasks. Given that government officials acting in the course of the State's document exhibitors' activities are also under high corruption pressure, we therefore support the possibility of carrying out reliability checks on administrators acting in the course of the issue of documents. The tightening up that is to be introduced will provide an opportunity to ensure that the reliability test is not limited to persons named and can be carried out, and that the legal possibility to extend it is, in our view, useful. The provisions of the package of proposals which intend to set the starting date for the initiation of national security control are considered reasonable because it can be ruled out that a new national security control against a person with a valid security opinion should be unduly initiated. I would also like to highlight the amendment that will allow public ambulance services to access the surveillance cameras available in the police system in real time. This is important for all of us, because it is in our interest to implement professional interventions as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear that changes have occurred in the regulatory environment over the period since the last amendment of the standards concerned, with appropriate legislative adjustments being required. [[15.00]] The Fidesz faction supports the bill submitted by the Minister of the Interior, thus transposing practical experience into the Hungarian legal order and establishing a uniform and consistent practice of law enforcement. Thank you for listening. Please support the adoption of the bill. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-04-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group does not participate in the debate. The speaker of the KDNP Group, Mr Mátyás Firtl, will be here to speak. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-04-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, 21 amendments to the Home Affairs Act are proposed by T/14680, which we are discussing here. A package of legislative proposals, which accordingly concerns a comprehensive scope of the laws to be amended. The proposal sets out a number of proposals for harmonisation purposes. This includes, inter alia, amendments to the legislation on national security services and water associations, as well as amendments to the law on the entry and residence of third-country nationals, including amendments to the legislation on illegal gambling aimed at excluding two different standards. The Minister of the Interior, through the amendment of the legislation, also initiates the possibility of extending the powers of the vigilante through voluntary participation to include passenger transport activities of road buses, in addition to ensuring the order of rail passenger transport. LXVI of 1992 on the register of citizens' personal data and address. In particular, the amendment of the Act aims at amending or supplementing the data content of the permanent and temporary identity card, while providing the APB with a legal basis for the automatic receipt of facial image data. XXXIV of 1994 on the police force The amendment of law creates the legal possibility for the public ambulance service, as has already been said, to have access to the recording of surveillance cameras managed by the police in real time. The amendment of the law amending the Foreign Travel Act serves to regulate domestic Schengen signal management according to uniform principles, which provides clarification and introduces corrections to maintain regulatory coherence for the purpose of effective law enforcement. The 2007 LXXX on asylum. On the basis of a supplement to the law, a facial image of persons subject to the asylum register could be transferred to the asylum authority's circumscribed system as laid down in the law. Ladies and gentlemen, Instead of repeating each of the 21 laws to be amended, I think it is important to emphasise what is clear from what has been mentioned so far is that the legislative change package to be discussed is in line with the government's responsibility and serves by far the government's efforts to address public security and secure living conditions in general, also in the context of the global migrant crisis. The amendment also serves the purpose of ensuring that the Schengen external borders are protected without restrictions within the zone. This endeavour is in line with the effective and effective solution with which Hungary has led from the outset and has found a successful solution to be followed in Europe's migrant policy, while Europe faces a competitive, migration, security, demographic and foreign policy crisis at the same time, not to mention human trafficking and the crisis in Ukraine and the Balkans in the region. We ensure the protection of our borders from the beginning, with the consistency that gives a sense of security to Hungarian citizens and which is also effective for European citizens. Hungary protects its own external borders and Europe's external borders at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, The security of the EU's external borders, the protection of the Schengen external borders, and its legal regulation, are fundamental to the issue of asylum within the EU, its solution, the issue of security, the threat of terrorism and the future of the country's development. We are convinced that Schengen is a key achievement for the European Union and therefore the internal borders cannot prevent the free movement of persons. That is why it is important that T/14680. Among other things, the national legislation on the European Border and Coast Guard established in 2016. The creation of a European border and coast guard, as proposed by the European Commission, has aimed at making the EU's external borders safer and makes it possible to manage migration more effectively. As a border guard body of the European Union, the Agency called Frontex, together with the border authorities of the Member States, has several qualifications to address the migration crisis, including integrated border management, technical and technical strategies, measures, technical and operational assistance, return operations and interventions. In principle, Hungary has supported the establishment of a permanent EU border surveillance body, but the Hungarian government has always represented that the migrant crisis must be resolved primarily where it arises, but if a Member State cannot protect its borders, it must go there and protect it instead. It is also important to stress that the surveillance of the EU's borders remains a matter of national competence, as was the subject of the recent meeting in Rome: all peoples must first and foremost take care of the safety and well-being of their own country and find solutions to the problems that arise. We provide European responses and solutions to the migration situation, border protection and security, while pursuing Hungarian interests. Border protection is a national matter, we have a moral obligation to protect our families, our children, our parents' lives, and so it is important for all of us to protect our common achievements. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the package of laws also concerns other laws, such as the 1999 LXXXIV on road transport. Law or the 2009 CLV on the protection of classified information. Act II of 2012 on infringements, infringement proceedings and the system for the registration of infringements Act and Act XLII of 2015 on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. The amendment of the Act also includes corrections to address and resolve housing problems arising from a mandatory change of service between five and ten years by the head of regional and local bodies of the body carrying out law enforcement tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, We all want a Europe where we can live our own Hungarian lives. We work for a strong country that evolves and grows, along with all its citizens. The draft legislative amendment before us is intended to strengthen the conditions for this, and therefore the KDNP faction is T/14680. The Committee recommends to this House that the bill be adopted to amend certain domestic laws. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-04-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-04-04-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that each of the speakers before me has highlighted almost different and other important and less racially significant elements of the bill and this salad law package, if you will, because many passes are being changed, I would like to skip this repetition and spare us from it. What I would like to stress is that, given that the Ministry of Interior has followed its good practice of having all the important proposals through five-party negotiations and, preferably, consensus on the final vote, this is a good thing that has happened now, but one thing has to be said, namely that various lawyers and various journalists have seen into a certain segment of this proposal, especially changes in the collection of classified information. [[15.10]] In this respect, it should be noted that both during the five-party consultation and within the National Security Committee, these perceived or real misconceptions have been eliminated. I think everyone could be convinced that there is no substantive and substantive change in the rules for collecting classified information. There is no doubt that in many cases it is adapted to other legislation, and these are primarily clarification for technical and legal harmonisation purposes arising from international standards. So obviously, I can say, like those who spoke before me, that, if not so large-scale and not so meaty, these are important steps towards public order and public security, and perhaps, most importantly, that they become more lifelike and adapted to daily practice. I am thinking of the immediate, simultaneous access by the police to the camera systems almost everyone's voice. This is certainly a step forward, because if we think about it, especially when we think about the crimes and atrocities against healthcare workers, then this seemingly small amendment will allow much more effective, much faster and much more flexible action in the future. I think I've been overdoing it if I don't want to repeat all the things I've been told before. I can confirm on behalf of my own faction that Jobbik will support this proposal in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-04-04-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent Members shall not take part in the debate. I am asking my fellow Members if they still wish to speak under the item on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to answer. [[Contra on Charles' signal:]] Yes, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2017-04-04-127	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I, too, would like to say very briefly, and I would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. I would like to underline the two main objectives of submitting the bill. On the one hand, the obligation to harmonise EU legislation and, on the other, to take account of the experience of recent years. The purpose of this proposal is to ensure that, based on the experience of the past years, we are able to serve public policy, public security and the security of Hungarian people more effectively and effectively. This is what this bill is about, which, as I myself have said, and many have mentioned, includes 21 amendments to the law on a smaller or larger scale. I would like to underline the importance of the five-party negotiations and the fact that we continued this practice before the submission of this bill. It was an effective negotiation. This is also demonstrated by the comments made in the debate, which I thank you for. Thank you for the support of the political groups in the debate, the leaders of Fidesz, KDNP and Jobbik. I hope that this bill will also achieve its goal and will serve the safety of the Hungarian people, Hungary. That is why I call on this House to support it in the future in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-04-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish follows a series of steps. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/14681. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Bitay Márton Örs, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-04-04-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The fish is also a symbol of purity - wrote Otto Herman, the popular and famous polyhistor. What we want to achieve with this law is that the fish management law, which is a rather thick and important piece of legislation for the Hungarian agricultural economy, is to clean up and clean up. Back in the day, when I was preparing for the speech, I thought I'd say we were doing the final cleansing, but obviously a law is constantly changing, so maybe it's not worth talking about the final cleansing. It confirms that in 2013 the Parliament voted for the new fish management law, which was embedded in the ecological approach that we wanted to achieve, by a large majority, over a ratio of more than two thirds. I think that perhaps the word of time has forced us to make this view appear in the law. In other words, instead of commercial fishing on large-scale natural water, it should go as far as fishing towards the development of Hungarian fish management and fishing tourism; in the direction that puts ecological and conservation aspects first, fishing tourism aspects second place and only third place the original fisheries and fisheries management aspects. In the spring of 2015, we tightened up together with a majority of two-thirds; the fishing opportunities for natural waters were abolished by this amendment as of 1 January 2016. In addition, in the autumn of 2015, there was another amendment to the law, where Mohos, now about 400 thousand people, was given the opportunity to acquire state fish management rights, so that these members, the member organizations of Mohos, could use these water surfaces. I would like to mention that after all of this, we have reviewed and left a year for the law to continue to mature, and that we can gather daily experiences. It has become clear that the original intention to stop large-scale fishing in natural waters has worked, has achieved the goal assigned to it, or, at least, we can draw experience from a period of almost a year and a half that is beginning to fulfill the expectations it has attached. In the meantime, the issues which have been the technical clarifications have also been raised. For example, the fact that such a complete ban also excluded such types of events that join culinary festivals, a festival of unique Hungarian fish species and have previously hidden fishing activities. These were also ruled out in this amendment of the law; I could say that the law had become a bit strict, and the child, along with the bath water, was poured out. Now, that's what we're trying to do in this amendment. Now the law will again provide opportunities for, for example, Tihany Gardalia or for high-water fishing in Gemenc or old lake fishing in Tata, which is basically not large-scale, non-commercial, yet a significant amount of fishing activity. However, it has a tradition: national heritage, culinary festivals, events that have a greater interest in the national economy, while otherwise nature conservation interests are not violated. The amendment of the law is therefore once again an opportunity to do so. It has also become clear that the possibility of obtaining the right to fish in public tenders is too limited for municipalities. Now the law requires that municipalities in such a public tender system also have the possibility to acquire directly the right to fish management. In addition to minor changes, we have further modified the fishing opportunities of the blind and the weak-sighted. As a result of the original amendment of the law, a person could obtain the right to fish after a professional fish management test meeting an increased requirement. This, by the way, became impossible for the blind and visually impaired because of image recognition, so we removed it from the law. It's another relief for them. [[15.20]] I was shocked myself, and I didn't think, frankly, that this had a very relevant background. A lot of people use this passion and hobbies, custom finger-touch fishing method, using electronic bite indicators. Many of our compatriots welcome this passion with their own limited opportunities. In order not to exclude them, the law will also remedy this. We will make it much easier for foreign guest fishermen to obtain state fishing tickets, which is also a very important aspect. If I just take as an example that, in addition to the presence of international professional television and press on Lake Balaton, such serious competitions have been held recently, Balaton Fish Management Nonprofit Zrt. has made such improvements in public welfare and the establishment of fishing grounds in the last year that it has become very important how and how we give out the state fishing ticket to foreign guest fishermen. Thousands of numbers must meet this criterion. And while we see that these are constantly facilitated by our European, especially Central European tourism competitors who surround us, it was reasonable and appropriate for us to facilitate the acquisition of these permits. It will also include the range of fish protection fines, but this will not be a new kind of ban or restriction. According to the implementing regulation, it is already linked to prohibited elements, so what the law originally prohibits, we would try to use greater rigours than those, because we know that the black economy also includes a fairly significant space here. We will further clarify the conceptual scope of fish production units, natural waters, fishing lakes, fish management facilities, reservoirs and reservoirs with fish management facilities, as well as the specific tasks and tasks that can be performed. We are also expanding the scope of the tasks eligible for funding from the budget in this bill, and we would like to achieve further opportunities for fish management and tourism revenues related to fishing. All in all, I hope that a good amendment will also be adopted as a result of the joint reflection of the original Act 2013 and the subsequent amendments. I would like to thank the opposition representatives for their participation in the discussions so far. Similar to several laws that were passed by the Ministry of Agriculture, we also tried to have a proper professional debate on this. There are also two-thirds amendments, as the fish management law itself is also a significant part two-thirds. I very much hope that this House will also accept the amendments that give the fishing community the opportunity specifically and the rights of local government fish management, following proper consideration or, if appropriate, the adoption of amendments to the law itself. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-04-04-130	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr János Pócs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-04-04-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! We have also heard in the author's exposé that the bill seeks to update the 2013 CII on fish management, fish protection, mainly with technical clarifications and solutions to the problems encountered in the application of the law and proposals made by professional organisations. Law. I would just like to highlight the most important amendments for me, in order to support the position of the Fidesz faction, according to which we will support the bill. I think it is important, as Mr Secretary of State has said, that the proposal makes it easier for foreign fishermen to obtain fishing tickets and catch logbooks on the basis of their fishing licence issued in their own country. This opportunity, I feel, will make life easier for our countrymen who have been torn beyond today's borders, but also for any fisherman who loves Hungarian waters and who is happy to spend longer time in Hungary. Complementing the fish conservation rules and clarifying the rules on fisher work is intended to increase safety and to act effectively against non-compliance. But I could also mention the management rights granted to municipalities or measures to reduce administration. However, I do not want to take my speech too long, and I would also like to ask the opposition groups to support the proposal in view of the professional nature of the proposal, in particular its parts requiring a qualified majority. Mr President, thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-04-04-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-04-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! As has already been said, the overall amendment to the law in 2013 was supported by our faction, and the reason for that was very briefly that the legislation outlined a difference in thinking, which finally placed the emphasis on the 300,000 anglers' side of industrial fishing. We have supported and supported this, too, to this day. However, the practice has proved in recent years that there have been a number of shortcomings in this legislation, and in life it has proved that serious changes are also needed. When I saw the title of this draft, I hoped that we would be able to answer all of them here within the framework of the law, as the profession has long demanded these changes. I also summarized these in the form of a proposal for a decision, as well as the LMP had a legislative amendment proposal which contained and addressed these problems. Over the past year, we have perhaps submitted proposals with similar content every two or three months. However, we are missing these from this draft, but we will, of course, try to deal with them with amendments. There would be questions about invasive species why the government did not intend to take a much bolder, more decisive step. On the part of the profession, research institutions, we also have indications that we are facing a huge problem, invasive species are multiplying to such an extent that fishing is insufficiently selective in this area for very understandable reasons - this is the case - but this should be compensated somehow. We are not waiting for the situation that we have experienced in the case of native crabs or shellfish that they have virtually disappeared from our country in a decade. Now we have several indigenous species of fish at similar risk in a similar situation. It would be good if the government's response was not only that water users had the right in principle to engage in selective fishing, since this will not bring about a saving state that, in practice, this will happen to a serious extent. As I understand it, we are talking about ten state troopers, and before they do their job, we have to be aware that a radical increase in this number would be necessary in order to ensure that the interests of the state and of the fish management are effectively enforced in all aspects. There are also significant shortcomings in the cormorant problem. I know this law doesn't have to handle this. I understand that negotiations or negotiations on this matter have been taking place with Brussels for years, but very cautious steps have been taken only so far. There are also continuous signals from water surface operators. If, say, to the extent possible in the law, they want to reduce the number of predators that are dangerous to fishfaunas and keep them in check, they may not be able to carry the weapon out to their own ponds, because the area surrounding the fish ponds is used by another hunting company, so they cannot legally enter the area. I am pleased that the potential of local authorities for fish management rights is increasing, but we are a little late for that. We would have saved a great deal of energy and unnecessary anxiety if these modifications had come in at a normal time. Surely, a number of local governments have also received a call for lobbying to allow their own community to decide how the natural water in their territory will be managed in the future. We could have saved them all if they had thought on time and accepted the opposition's comments. [[15.30]] With regard to applications, I know that this legislation does not have to make provision for this, but there are promises all the time. However, here are the beautiful words that say that our country could become practically a fishing haven in Europe, a completely realistic vision, and we have all the means to do so. Only the sources of tender, tourism and other fisheries should be used in such a way that they are effective and truly achieve the desired goal of making our country a significant step forward in this area. Many jobs and quality jobs in rural areas could thus be created, not to mention the fact that the role and importance of domestic freshwater fish can be significantly increased by the decline and the thinning of sea fish and its price increases. In addition, this is an additional argument that it is important to transfer these funding sources in this direction. What I have listed, as I have said, we are also trying to deal with all of them with amendments, and we are making it conditional on their acceptance of the support that we will be able to provide for this legislation. I have to say that the kind of brave action that has been formulated in principles and in fine words about the area is unfortunately not seen in the text of the legislation described, and it does not come back from it. We're still missing these. In closing, allow me, Mr Secretary, to convey the very bitter cry of the 200 families of fishermen who were very seriously promised to help a year and a half ago. Compensating these fishing families as several promises made here at state level in Parliament, most of them still haven't seen a single forint. If they had already put these families on the streets, if they had already made their work impossible, they would not have promised to help them, would they not have promised to compensate for their loss, because they would not have expected this assistance in vain for a year and a half. Give them a reassuring answer, or tell them frankly, Mr. Secretary, that they have been deceived, that they cannot count on you, and that they will not wait unnecessarily for this promised compensation. Or take action very quickly, and with an apology letter, their compensation should finally take place. These are the answers I look forward to. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-04-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent Members do not wish to speak; no one has applied for a two-minute speech. In a normal time frame, Mr Lajos Kepli, Jobbik Group, asked for the floor. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-04-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me say a few words about Lake Balaton, which, in the case of fish farming, if there is a fish management law in front of the House, is an unavoidable topic over and over again, especially for me, whose heart is Balaton and also its habitat. After all, fish farming has caused huge problems in recent years, to be more precise: shutting down fishing was the step which, by the way, by joining my colleague Zoltán Magyar, who had already spoken about invasive species, made it possible for the busa to multiply in Lake Balaton and allows it to continue to this day. After all, organic fishing has simply not been allowed so far. Now, there's a chance in the law, but there's a lot to write in a law that's an option. The question is, who will have an interest and who will have an obligation, who will provide this source, for example, in the case of Lake Balaton. There are many nice words from Minister Fazekas's mouth about Hungarian fish being eaten by Hungarian people, and it is necessary to restore the halostronomics in Hungary, which is not really mature, since very few fish are consumed by Hungarians according to statistics. We can agree on that. It's just, let's say, here's the Balaton, where a certain amount of fish has the right food, because the Balaton is already, thank God, very clean water, which is good for beachers and tourism, but obviously less for fishes. After all, there is less organic matter, less food, and less fish in the given area. It is so reduced that, according to preliminary estimates, it was estimated to be about 120 kilograms per hectare of water surface that there could be so many fish in Lake Balaton. However, I recently received the latest survey of the Institute of Limnology, quite shocking. In the eastern basin it is 18,2 kg/hectare and in the western basin it is around 30 kg/hectare. This means that there are extremely few fish in Lake Balaton, and part of it is probably a busa, an invasive species with very large specimens present. So 18,2 kilograms is the average size of a bug. This means that an acre in the eastern basin of Lake Balaton is a piece of ordinary busha. And that's when we didn't talk about noble fish, which is why fishermen go there to catch it. By the way, that buzah eats food and nutrients from fish that we would like to increase in Lake Balaton if we want to talk about fishing tourism at all. So the problem has not been solved at all, and has not been solved since the ecological fisheries stopped, which Balaton Fish Management Ltd. has. He continued on Lake Balaton. The rapsics' activity isn't actually solved. After all, they do not carry out their beneficial activities in the same way as they did before. After all, in theory, the conservation of fish is solved in the law, but in reality, as my colleague Zoltán Magyar said, very few fishmen work, not only nationally, but, of course, within this Balaton is also under very minimal guard. They are unable to reveal poachers and poachers equipped with state-of-the-art techniques, who are already using technical tools that they cannot compete with, and thus constantly rob the Balaton by poachers and poachers. With much more stringent measures, however, this could be further curbed. We have long proposed the confiscation of equipment for poaching, poaching, and ships. Several times, these activities are carried out on very valuable yachts on Lake Balaton. Obviously, it's because of their activities that there are so few fish in Lake Balaton. The fishermen on the shore of Lake Balaton are extremely sensitive. There are a very large number of fishermen on the shore of Lake Balaton, thank God, fishing permits are being issued in increasing numbers, but catch logs show that catches do not increase. So the fish management law, at least on Lake Balaton, did not fulfill its expectations if the hope was that as many fishermen as possible could catch as many noble fish as possible from Lake Balaton, of course, in quantities that the law and regulation would allow. So we can't talk about fishing tourism at Lake Balaton for the time being. We can't talk much about fishtronomy either, because as long as Ukrainian or Kazakh are in restaurants on the shore of Lake Balaton, it is difficult to talk about Hungarian national consumption habits and gastronomics. Also, as long as the most popular Balaton fish is the hakk in the fish bakeries on Lake Balaton, unfortunately that is not enough. We're gonna have to do a lot more than that to change that. I'm telling you, as a Balaton coastal resident and as a fish eater. Unfortunately, I would very much like to get my hands on Balaton fish, but if only a fisherman friend of mine doesn't allow me, it's a big problem for me, too, how I can eat fish raised in Balaton. Of course, this applies to all other natural waters in Hungary, as fish stocks are nowhere near the level that can build a healthy fishing tourism. I'm talking about natural waters, not fishing lakes and artificial fish farmers. So I think that this problem needs to be resolved in addition to party politics. We agree on that. The government obviously thinks that he's headed towards this process and he's on a road. Indeed, the bill also contains positive elements in this regard, but unfortunately, the practice has not confirmed this since the entry into force of the Fish Management Act. That is why we would like to ask the government to try to take more radical measures to protect fish management in one year's time, to combat poaching, poaching and to do so that fishermen can redeem their fishing licenses as much as possible in the hope of a good catch, not only at Lake Balaton, but everywhere in Hungary. And fishing should be an increasingly popular sport, the pure sex of fishing, the pure kind of fishing, of course, not talking about the mastery of poaching, becoming increasingly widespread sport and leisure activities. After all, Hungary is rich in water, unfortunately less in fish for now, but we hope that this will also change. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] [[15.40]]
u2017-04-04-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-04-137	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to add very briefly, however, that we are waiting in vain for Mr Secretary of State to take the floor and answer in substance in the debate, I think. My fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kepli, inspired me with a very important question, and this is the issue of fish that can be consumed locally on the banks of the lake. This is the problem that an average Hungarian citizen is most interested in and meets with him, because he does not miss fishing in a way that is not part of the way of life, let us say, the problems that I listed in the relevant legislation. On the other hand, he does notice when he goes on vacation, hiking with the family, and indeed does not receive fish from the region. Addressing this problem should be of such weight that the issue has even reached a level of government. You could hear it, read it in the press, that perhaps even Prime Minister has dealt with this case once. I hope that there will be a quick response to this, because it is really unacceptable that we try to serve it as if the legal environment would now be able to get the fish on the waterfront that was raised or alive a few meters from there, and the practice is quite different. There is already a series of fish festivals with very serious gastronomic value and high recognition in Hungary. We are very happy about this, but when we scratch the surface and see, say, how many parts of the tons of fish that are baked there come from a long weekend, not even from the region, but from Hungary, we are amazed, because this converging to about zero in most cases. And we're calling for serious government intervention here, too. Not to mention the effect that this has had on health, and now moving to the part that Hungarians' average annual consumption of the European average, if I remember correctly, is a quarter, a third, which has not always been the case, and if I think back, we are very, very far away from that. I would also like to draw attention here to the fact that there are serious EU resources here to improve the fish fins, to make the cut-off rivers alive at all, and to link them to the main beach in some form, thus also ensuring that the various species of fish can spawn, which in good case could be a serious supply of fish for the waters. It's a matter of decades for the Iron Gate. We need international negotiations here, which is now also the deficiency of the many governments that this has not happened. With today's technology, it would be relatively simple, with a medium-sized investment, that the sturgeons from the Black Sea and the waters connected with it can swim up and down both the Tiszahat and the Island; this is also a huge deficiency of the governments at hand. We're talking about fish that can grow more than a hundred pounds, and they have serious caviar and, by the way, meat value. They have just so many problems that they do not swim up, that the Iron Gate makes it impossible to do so, while we can see that in the United States, Canada, and now in England, and also in other Western European examples of this, they are able to build a hallift into a river section for the sake of a few ounces of fish - citing signs - which senses that if the fish swims in and takes it to a higher level, if for some artificial reason man intervened and, say, created a hydroelectric power plant or any object in the cross. If they are able to do this for nature conservation reasons - and it is very right that those who can do it will do it - then we could really do it through international negotiations, both economically and in the case of fish species or groups of fish that are very important for the Hungarian people's soul. I also think that there could be a European Union resource for it. These cross-border and transnational projects are now fashionable, so I urge the government not to be obviously involved in this law, but also to address this issue. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-04-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking if any of my fellow Members would like to speak on this agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Mr Bitay Márton Örs, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-04-139	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to thank everyone in particular for their comments, because it was once again apparent that there was a professional law here, and if I listened carefully, the opposition had absolutely acceptable thoughts. I would like to respond to some of the things that have been said. The question of the overgrowth of invasive species is how this law helps or does not help to find a solution now. First of all, I would like to stress that it has been possible to tackle invasive species with a fishing method. In this respect, there is no new element in the law. As an obligation, I do not yet see the possibility of who or how it could be prescribed, but I think that this should also have the market value or benefit, that is to say, that the written text of the law does not indicate that the number of invasive species is decreasing or increasing, since - the exception of Lake Balaton, I will mention that - in natural waters, there has been every possibility of selective fishing methods to catch these invasive species. MEP Zoltán Magyar also mentioned the Kormorán. This is indeed a very serious problem. I would like to draw attention here to climate change. There's a population nesting here, it's about 15,000 individuals, there's a migratory population, that's about 40,000 more individuals. For nesters, the population could really be weakened by taking some kind of intervention during the nesting period. The bigger problem is that they are not nesting alone, they are nesting with various otherwise protected species, and here we stumble upon the problem of not being able to reduce the number of these nests with sufficient efficiency, because they are with other protected birds during the nesting period. However, I would like not to reassure you, because it is not such a large sum, but we give more than HUF 10 million for individual applications, not even for applications to farmers who wish to participate in the cormorance. Moreover, the Member was wrong to know that the hunting authority has the possibility to grant a specific authorisation that, in an appropriate way, either with the participation of the hunter or with the fish farming participants, who otherwise has a valid hunting ticket and hunting exam, can participate in this infringement programme. Local governments get their rights too late: I agree - we did not think about it. Back in the day, I don't remember you making such an amendment; though you don't govern [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: For now! But what's late doesn't go away.]] We should have thought of that, but we didn't think of it. We have just come to mind, so please support this amendment, it is a two-thirds part, so if we agree here, we will be able to make progress easily. I also agree with the number of fish guards, but it is not enough, though I might add, that this is not a matter of ten, but of sixty state fishermen. We use to highlight the ten, because it is indeed divided into 10+50, and in their equipment, I would like to mention so much that we have now purchased custom night vision tools, purchase and purchase of motor boats, but let us not kid ourselves. No matter how many fishmen we use, the real problem, the raping, as Mr. Lajos Kepli said, will not be determined by the number of fish guards, but by the legal environment and the saleability of fish, which I believe can achieve results. There is 15 billion forints available for development resources, which you missed, Congressman. Indeed, these proposals may be launched and evaluated even more quickly, but this is already under way, and I would like to stress that, compared to the previous seven-year European Union cycle, there has been a bigger slice of fishing and support for fish farming in this cycle, in this period than before. [[15.50]] I'm referring to 200 families of fishermen. He mentioned we put them on the street. Let us put it milder, even in the beginning of the campaign, that the fishing rights of these fishermen have expired. Nothing special happened. We didn't take anyone's fishing rights, we didn't break anyone's fishing rights, it was 10, 15 and 20 years of fishing law that expired. Even at the moment of conclusion, everyone knew that clearly. You're right, the new element is that we can't extend that right now, but we didn't put anyone out. By the way, it's also important that the two hundred number is a little excessive. About half of these problems have been solved, half of them have been solved within the Mohos. We're talking about a hundred more families here. I also hope that in some way we will succeed. Let's say it requires so much cooperation that, if necessary, in re-training... - so let's make this family a partner. I think that ecological, selective fishing can be a solution for them here too. Both mentioned the issue of the Balaton fish. First of all, I want you all to see clearly that selective fishing, either in or out of Lake Balaton, has been unable to buy carp for 30 years. The belief that the possibility of catching a healthy fish has suddenly ceased to exist in the high water basin is a misconception. This hasn't happened in 30 years. Officially, from Lake Balaton only selective fishing has been allowed for decades, and only keszegs could be caught. I think it didn't hurt that we introduced a complete ban on fishing activity in Lake Balaton, because it's where we can encode it using catch logs to see what results have otherwise been achieved. Here, on the other hand, I would like to turn to the information that Congressman Kepli has said, which is bad. I don't know if the Limnological Institute - [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: "Impossible!"]] it's impossible, but it seems - which data you took, because one thing is certain, the catch log and the catch log numbers show an increase. About 6,000 tons of fish are caught from Lake Balaton by fishing methods. This is shown in the catch log numbers. But I want to solve this problem. Let me ask - although the Institute of Limnology, so to speak, works in our jurisdiction, and we have received data, perhaps we misunderstood something, or perhaps you misunderstood - that we look at it, because the exact, measurable figures do not show this, but simply show an increase. In terms of gay, I'd like to put it a little more delicately, if it's the Institute of Limnology. There are various kinds of research. According to one of them, it's not even certain that the buse is multiplying in Lake Balaton. Even a lot of people question that. I can't decide. Unfortunately, I don't have the ability to decide that. I rather feel that there is a great problem in the water catchment areas of Lake Balaton, in a lake farm that is directly connected to Lake Balaton. Now, that would be against the law, and you wouldn't allow that. I think that this can also have a serious, negative impact on the supply of bugs, but you are right to return to how we try to act in selective fisheries in the fishing methods at some point. I've looked at all the species of nets and the fishing methods on Lake Balaton, which are still there. It is very good to catch the busa with selective fishing, but I think the first step is to try to close the supply line and then it is worth thinking about. The last thing I'd like to get to is what you said we were eating little fish, and the question of Balaton fish, the hakk. I'm afraid that's true. However, the news is so welcome, I would not light a bonfire, that according to last year's statistics, the average fish consumption in Hungary increased by 0.4 kg. I would not vindicate the result of the government's work that this has happened, simply opening up the scissors, which may have a greater interest in healthy food, and more people are already eating fish, but we still have a lot to do in this, especially in the development of the lake economy, aquaculture, and secondly by using marketing tools, because the basic problem here, as with wild meat, is that in households like us, one, two, or three types of fish are prepared, while many very delicious foods can be made out of them. We are talking about a multi-faceted problem, which, as you rightly noted, is not going to have the effect of this law. We're trying to fix the legal environment here. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President.
u2017-04-04-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The International Convention for the Carriage of Rail, dated 9 May 1980, takes place in Bern. Annexes 1 to 4 to the Protocol adopted in Vilnius, adopted in Bern on 29 and 30 September 2015, amending its text under the Protocol of 3 June 1999, are a general debate until its conclusion on the draft law on the publication of the Convention and its amendments to Appendices D, F and G. Government referral T/14661. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. János Fónagy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda.
u2017-04-04-141	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This bill provides for the publication of decisions amending the text and appendices of the International Convention for Rail Transport, COTIF. The purpose of the bill is to incorporate the amended text of the D, F and G Appendices to the Convention into the Hungarian legal order. The law on procedures for international contracts requires the publication of amendments at the statutory level. The Interstate Organisation for International Rail Transport was founded in Bern on 1 May 1985 by signing the Convention, which was proclaimed in Hungary by Decree-Law No 2 of 1986. The legal predecessor of the organization was the International Railway Transport Central Office, founded in 1893. The International Convention for the Carriage of Rail entered into force on 1 July 2006, which Hungary even announced that year. Currently, the organisation has 50 Member States, with a regulatory railway infrastructure of some 270 thousand kilometres. The Convention and its Appendices D, F and G were amended in Bern on 29 and 30 September 2015 at the latest meeting of the 12th meeting of OTIF. On the one hand, the 2015 Protocol updates the outdated terminology in the text of the Convention and the Appendices to the official designation of the European Union, the definition of certain concepts and corrects stylistic, spelling and reference errors. In order to facilitate interpretations and references, some paragraphs are also broken down and reworded. The budget of the organisation and the payment of the member's fee, the system for determining the member's fee, and the grace period for suspension of membership, shall be reduced. The Protocol extends the duration of the OTIF work programme to be defined and clarifies the scope of application of the rules contained in each annex. The amendments are expected to make the OTIF's operation more efficient and update the text of the Convention. The amendments to the Convention and the Appendices are not detrimental to Hungary, but due to the fact that Hungary is a full member of OTIF, the organization's more effective operation is also beneficial from our point of view. According to Article 34 of the Convention, amendments to the Convention, which were decided by the General Assembly, shall enter into force for each Member State 12 months after they are accepted by two thirds of the Member States. [[16.00]] Amendments to the Appendices, which were decided by the General Assembly for each Member State, shall enter into force 12 months after the adoption by half of the Member States. On this basis, I would like to ask my fellow Members that the T/14661. To discuss the proposed legislation and to support the publication of the amendments. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity, your attention.
u2017-04-04-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr János Pócs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-04-04-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! The amendment of the text and annexes to the International Convention on Rail Transport is a good opportunity to say a few words about the Government's railway development programme. This is driven by three aspects: safety, environmental protection and economics. In recent years, the government has implemented a road safety programme, which has thinned its partner across Europe, in which it has spent some HUF 50 billion to eliminate dangerous rail hubs and accident points. Many railway sections have been electrified, which not only makes the sector much more environmentally friendly, but also significantly reduces traction energy costs. Overall, all these developments contribute to achieving the greatest possible share of freight transport from road to rail. This government policy further strengthens the nature of our country's rail transport hub. This will be fully completed when the high-speed route between Budapest-Belgrád is completed as part of the railway corridor connecting Western Europe to the Port of Pyreus in Greece. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Hungary considers improving competitiveness a priority at both national and European level, one of which is the right infrastructure. We will also make use of the EU framework that can be used for this purpose. There are some HUF 1500 billion of EU funds available for rail development, of which some 900 km of railway tracks are expected to be renewed by 2022. We can now assign the necessary international legislation to the proper operation of this infrastructure. Now that we are voting on the development of the international convention governing rail transport, we are simultaneously serving the dual goal of improving the competitiveness of Europe and Hungary. In this spirit, I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect to support this proposal. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
u2017-04-04-144	Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, on behalf of Jobbik.
u2017-04-04-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I do not think that I will reveal a great secret by saying, in this way, that the Jobbik Group will support this bill, because the bill containing and before us the amendment of the international rail transport convention is indeed a document that can help us achieve the objectives that I believe we agree on in principle. What are these goals? What are the reasons behind this? On the one hand, let's say environmental reasons, because we need to know that transport is the sector that accounts for about 50 percent of toxic, carcinogenic emissions in Hungary, so it doesn't matter how much we can shift this to transport modes whose sustainability, ecological footprint would otherwise be smaller or more sustainable than the current ones. This is, by the way, a matter of any importance for the railway sector. The railway would be appropriate to meet these objectives, because now, you must know, the railway will deliver 20% of the total amount of goods that are sold through us or transported from one point of the country to another, which can be considered to be a low number, at least in relation to our capacities and what is expected in principle. What am I thinking here? EU appropriations say that, say, by 2030, this 20% or 18%, if I want to be quite precise, should be increased to 30 per cent in the case of destinations more than 300 km away, and by 2050, a direct 50 per cent share would be targeted. This is certainly good for future generations and for the economy. We believe that the environment can and must still be protected. On the other hand, we can approach this question from a different perspective, from the economic side. If I refer to the so-called negative externalities, a 2013 study by the Air Task Force, which was based on European statistics, was based on which the amount, i.e. HUF 850 billion in 13, was the negative externality, which was undoubtedly not intended, but was caused by transportation in Hungary in the form of environmental damage or, let us say, damage to the infrastructure. This was already estimated at HUF 350 billion at the time, and I would add that almost 50 percent of this amount is accounted for by international traffic flowing through us. It is important to know that Hungary lies at the intersection of pan-European corridors and Magistral axes, and that this would predestroy Hungary to become, on the one hand, at least, the logistics centre of Eastern Central Europe, and, on the other hand, the problem that should be dealt with is that there is an increased traffic and transit traffic, which should be managed somehow. I have a few questions in connection with this, because if we want to support these beautiful ideas not only in terms of words, but also in the form of such international conventions, which were also mentioned here in the introduction, so that the share of environmentally friendly rail freight should increase within the overall turnover, then we should also give an answer to what the Hungarian Government intends to do about the end of the ROLA, how it intends to resurrect it, why they do nothing. I mean, we all have to see that if these trucks were driven to railway trains and carried across the country, we would be able to prevent a great deal of damage. I can safely say that it would be good for us to have such a Swiss example before our eyes, as we should know that Switzerland has virtually shifted its entire truck traffic onto the railway, and that only around intermodal or truck terminals can be carried by truck, all the others must be solved and solved by the railroad there, which is exemplary, very precise and marked. So that would be the first question in this regard. Then there would be the question of an ageing railway infrastructure. Here, my fellow Member Pócs has just said that they want to renew some 900 kilometres of railway tracks in Hungary until 2022. This is very good, very nice, and Jobbik supports this, obviously with reservations that these investments are not trying to satisfy the unsatisfying hunger of little balls from some gas mechanic on the road. These investments should be transparent and cost-effective in the right way, because we have a thousand-a-hundred billion forints of EU and domestic resources for these purposes here, but these goals and the resources assigned to them are not in line with each other, because the task would be much greater than allowing these funds, these development resources to be squandered, and it is not certain to be put in good hands. In such cases, as you may have been accustomed to, Jobbik will continue to stand up and for all our constructivity, but we will highlight these anomalies. [[16.10]] After all, if we are looking at the good 7500 kilometres of railway infrastructure in Hungary, which is 30 per cent or more, but there is a constant speed limit, because of the so-called slow signals that prevent rail freight traffic from getting involved here, rail freight should be at the level that would be desirable, then we should see that this terrible high rate, the requirement of the track length to be renewed, is certainly also encouraging the government, but also the responsible opposition, to follow these investments with árguistic eyes, and indeed to look into each of these larger projects. It is also important to know, however, that a significant part of the main lines of the European core network, almost one third of them, are also such a slow track, which does not favour the beautiful ideas that have been discussed here, both in the head of the State Secretary's office and in the speech of my fellow Member Pócs. Here, too, should be the question of the existence or absence of the long-term sideline concept. Last week, when there was a parliamentary debate on the use of development resources for the EU's 2014-20 cycle, I also asked this question. I hope that Mr Secretary of State will take this a little more seriously than Secretary Homolya did, who has dealt with this very quaintly. I have to say that from the point of view of rural Hungary, this is not an issue that can be resolved with such a shrug. We are obviously well aware of the statistical figures that show, for example, that within the total rail freight transport, only a very small percentage of the quantity of goods is involved through the sidelines. But then, for example, you have to ask here, and here you have to add the question of how to increase this. In our opinion, anyway, it is definitely a long-term sideline concept, and we hope that this concept does not end in letting it rot and let it be further destroyed by the railway infrastructure, which would certainly require huge improvements. I'm also going to add now that this isn't just your fault. Here, if you look at the exact figures, in.86, before the change of regime, a total of 217 kilometers of railroads were renovated in one year, after the change of regime, by 93, the ridiculous, outrageous 4 kilometers. Obviously, the current situation has its former cause, and I have just said so here. That is why it should be taken and managed better, not crowded in many cases - pardon - with the development resources that we have at our disposal for such tasks. And then one more question: for example, the Rail Cargo Hungaria case. It is memorable that at the time the socialist government got rid of the freight transport sector of the MÁV, sold it, it became aliens. We know that, and I ask you to believe that this information is correct, that there is an intention, let us say, on the part of Rail Cargo Hungaria, that the Hungarian State, if it wishes to buy back some part of this enterprise, may want to buy back. It is safe to say that a railway revision could take place in this form. And if the Hungarian State were to take this step, which would not otherwise require an astronomical amount, then the above-mentioned sideline concept could, or at least there is a greater chance, be a step forward in this matter. How much money can we talk about here? Obviously, there would be a few ten-billion-dollar items, but it is also necessary to add that there are certain corruption polyhistorians who have become railway builders from gas mechanics in Hungary. And even though my fellow Member Pócs spoke here, let us say that economics is one of the most important aspects of the government when such projects are being carried out, when we see that Lőrinc Mészáros can do it with HUF 25 billion, or the Hungarian state will push the projects that he has joined through the R-Kord. This is certainly outrageous and certainly unacceptable on Jobbik's part. The fact that such public-eating phenomenas can infuse a significant part of the resources available is outrageous to Jobbik. I am well aware of the commitment of the Secretary of State to rail development. I also know well, we also know that, where appropriate, it is not your word that decides, let's say, on these issues, but also here that Viktor allows or refuses to allow, and then the gasman at the gas station can come in. But it would be nice to put an end to this sausage in Hungary, because the principles, the beautiful ideas you are talking about, and once again, I believe that we can agree in principle with them, they cannot be realized. Mr Pócs mentioned another item here, and this is the case of the Budapest-Belgrád railway. Well, that's why, I have to admit, we're holding our heads. My dear fellow Member Pócs, have you seen an impact assessment on this? [[János Pócs: Yes.]] Yeah? It would be good for you to show this to the opposition, if any. How many hundred years will this investment pay off, the cost of which has now increased to over HUF 600 billion with interest? I would add, by the way, that it is only a 150-mile stretch here in Hungary. So, on the one hand, we see a shortage of resources, on the other hand, a tremendous abundance of resources, and you give them to whoever you want them to be, and whenever you want them to be. This isn't gonna work. This lacks a coherent concept. There are island-like developments, from which, if any, a buddy, an oligarch near the government, can make huge, huge money, and can even increase the terrible extra profit that Lőrinc Mészáros took out of his own pocket in 2015 only about HUF 3.5 billion of dividends from his businesses. And then let's highlight how many forints your average employee made in these companies, say, a month. I think if we look at this, there'll be no question. Perhaps even my fellow Member Pudgy would be ashamed of himself. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-04-146	Thank you. The keynote speeches are now over. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment outside the box. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary.
u2017-04-04-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, After such a wide panno, allow me, first of all, to thank Jobbik for supporting the bill, and my fellow Member Ander for giving me the opportunity to do what we have always thought was important within the walls of this respectable House for almost two decades now, I think, together, and this is the case of the Hungarian railway. I did not intend to deviate from the draft law, but allow me to respond to some of your suggestions, even because I believe that we are technically in agreement. The first was, in fact, the intention to maintain its network system in Hungary in the first place, and as far as international transit is concerned, it is primarily technically necessary to improve it, therefore, by increasing the quality of the transfer capacity, reaching the percentages mentioned by you. [[16.20]] You mentioned the ROLA. Congressman, you know that before our accession to the EU, ROLA had the extra beauty of receiving a bonus for carriers, because if they used ROLA to cross the country, they were given additional opportunities in Western Europe as Hungarian carriers. This has ceased with EU accession. To my fellow Members who did not deal with the subject at this depth, it was possible to recruit ROLA in Budapest and Sopron, which took the trucks to Wels, which was basically to the Austrian-German border, and then to the hot tea ports. I say the truck for a reason, because not only the legal and economic environment has changed, but also the technical conditions. Today, in ROLA traffic, they do not carry the machines themselves, but only the puttons, the containers of 20 and 40 tonnes in Hungarian, and there are machines suitable for road tow and transport only in the dump and recording locations. The Member is absolutely right, the elimination of slow signals on the Hungarian network is perhaps one of our most important professional tasks: continuous development, quality development of the entire network, basically higher speed, greater load capacity, and, where possible, the introduction of electrification. Now, a good decade ago or perhaps a long time ago, the MÁV has developed a slow signal eradication programme that goes forward year after year. We agree perfectly that the acceleration of this would be in the interest of the entire Hungarian railway. The subject does not give us the opportunity to talk about the issue of sidelines. More than half of the 7400-7500 kilometers are sidelines. We fully agree that this requires a long-term programme. I personally believe that the technical development of a significant part of the sidelines from the point of view of passenger traffic, in particular the construction of the suburban system of rural metropolitan cities, the associated schedule and the associated morning-night vocational activity, the involvement of a large number of vocations in public transport, is intended to relieve the burden on our roads and to provide railway services to the new industrial centres, which, in any case, are very welcome to increase in freight traffic in Hungary, which are not traditional. Just to give you an example, today it is no longer Diósgyőr or Ozd the center to be provided, but let's say Kecskemét or Győr, but the main aim is also to exploit the railway freight. On the matter of Rail Cargo, allow me to express my support, in agreement with what you said about what happened to the Hungarian cargo business. I think that our common goal, our Central European goal, is to increase cooperation in Central Europe, and especially in rail freight transport, so that in the Cargo activity, we still have significant levels of cooperation in Central Europe. On the one hand, the German railway, on the other, the Russian railway, and on the other, either the Austrian, Hungarian, Slovak or Croatian railways are not eligible to party to these large companies. I am therefore convinced that Rail Cargo, as a joint venture, could be one of the good points of international cooperation that exists today, but which is growing in its role and impact. I say all of this together with the fact that Hungary is fundamentally interested in serving TEN-T lines, in being one of Europe's major logistics centres in the middle of Central Europe, with particular attention to Hungary's fundamental interest and ability to take part in and control the North-South transport axis in addition to the classic East-West transport main directions. I believe that in the bill before us with a different content, but the basic aim of this convention is to facilitate the passage of national railway undertakings, so the support for this, the support you have indicated, is a step towards these, I believe, our professionally common plans. So, for your part, I would like to thank you and the other opposition parties for their support in all of this. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-04-148	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill amending Law I of 2004 on sport until closure. Government referral T/14682. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I also give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Development.
u2017-04-04-149	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Healthy lifestyles are not only individual, but also have many benefits at Community level. Regular physical activity plays a key role not only in preserving health but also in building a community. Sport teaches you that the result can only be achieved by hard work. One of the main objectives and essential condition of successful family policy is that people are all healthier. There is no doubt that we have work to do in this area. Unlike the European average of 25-30 percent, only 7 percent of the Hungarian population regularly play sports. Due to the insufficient physical state of society, some studies show that we are giving up one third of GDP. Encouraging, especially among children and young people, is essential for promoting a healthy lifestyle. In this, the government must play a prominent role, from the introduction of daily physical education to recreational sports, support for mass sports, to economic incentives. The primary task of the State is to develop an appropriate sport infrastructure. A key element of the government programme to promote sport is therefore the provision of higher-quality sports services for competitive supply and recreational sport. In addition to its positive impact on public health, the development of sports infrastructure is essential for Hungarian athletes, not least Hungarian athletes, to achieve outstanding results in international competitions, and Hungarian club teams to represent our country in a decent environment, welcoming our foreign opponents. The strategy for the development of sports facilities adopted by the government for the period 2014-2020 and launched for social debate prioritises the large educational associations that play a key role in Hungarian competition and supply sport. It also notes that, in accordance with international practice, emphasis should be placed on the maintenance and development of sports facilities used by the sports associations concerned. To this end, the transfer of the trust rights of state-owned sports property and sports facilities used by sports associations is necessary in order to achieve the objectives set out in their professional development programmes. The purpose of the bill is to ensure that the 2011 CXCVI on national assets. Under law, the National Assembly designates Ferencváros Gymnastics Club as a trustee of certain properties in Népliget by amending Annex 1 to Act I of 2004 on Sport. An important prelude to the appointment as a trustee is that the Ferencváros Torna Club received a budget of HUF 10 billion to implement the so-called Fradiváros I. phase on the basis of the government decision on the provision of resources for each key sport development investment. The key condition for the implementation of the decision-making sport investment project is the appointment of a trustee under the bill, given that it can be carried out on the real estate concerned as a trustee by the Ferencváros Gymnastics Club. In addition to the above, according to the bill, the creation of a property management right is free of charge, but the beneficiary must pay a fee for the exercise of it, in accordance with European Union law. [[16.30]] The bill also includes an amendment to the Sports Act with a content that allows Parliament to appoint a trustee not only for certain metropolitan properties but also for certain properties located outside the capital city in the future in order to achieve the goals of sport investment. Dear Parliament, In our view, the bill is worth supporting all parliamentary parties in view of the increase in national wealth and the healthy upbringing of future generations. On this basis, I would like to ask my fellow Members that, while considering what they have said, T/14682. To discuss and support the bill after the discussion. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-04-04-150	Thank you. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Erik Bánki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-04-04-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We could say that we have a technical bill before us, because, as you have heard from Mr. Secretary of State's exposé, there is nothing more than that the Sports Act is amended in such a way that the Ferencváros Gymnastics Club is appointed in this case for the exploitation of the properties listed in the Annex, which are otherwise state-owned and sporting property, in order to make a generous and meaningful investment for which, as Mr. State Secretary has also specified, the government has already provided a source of HUF 10 billion for its first phase. We know that the Hungarian government is committed to supporting sport. Fidesz and KDNP also said this in the election campaign in 2010, and in the seven years since then, it has demonstrated in many cases that it was not only intended to be an election slogan, a promise, but it was very serious that sport was a strategic sector. In the introduction of Mr. State Secretary, we have heard that Hungary is in a very bad position with regard to the proportion of citizens who exercise regularly every day, because the EU average is 30 per cent and above, compared with Hungary starting from very deep to less than 9 per cent in 2010, but let us not forget that this ratio is now close to 15 per cent. So there is a dynamic rise in the number of Hungarian citizens who exercise regularly. Let us not forget that, following several long initiatives by the government, which I myself, as President of the Commission and Member, presented in the debate on the budget between 2003 and 10, the proposal to introduce daily physical education, which was voted down every time by the free Democratic and Socialist Government, well, this was introduced by the civilian government led by Fidesz after 2010, and today, in a system that is emerging, a physical education lesson is given to our children every day, which, I think, was a very important and very important step for society as a whole. Mr Secretary of State also said that the country's loss is due to the lack of physical activity, and that the health of adult people is also below what is expected. A 2009 survey showed that in Hungary the proportion of obese children in children aged 10-14 years is 25 percent, and the proportion of severely obese children is also 25 percent. So more than half of these children are no longer able to reach adulthood by developing their muscles and bones in a healthy way, so obviously their working performance cannot be 100%. Thus, the sports investment programme launched by the government and supported by the daily physical education programme and by the corporate tax relief programme, these make very significant progress not only in the life of Hungarian society but also in the Hungarian economy. American research shows that every dollar spent on sport in the United States is tripled in savings in social security and health expenditure and in increasing labour activity. So I think that every penny we spend on sports facilities, every penny we spend on supporting either competition or supply sports, will be very useful for Hungarian society. This bill contains four properties for which the bill intends to designate the Ferencváros Gymnastics Club for the right of trustee. These are listed in Annex 1 to the Sports Act. By the way, all four properties are in nature in the X. district of Budapest, and will serve as the development area of the first Etap of the Fradiváros development program in connection with the Népliget reconstruction. We believe that with this appointment as a trustee, the government is supporting a development that is not only outstanding in terms of competition and supply sports, but also offers all IX and X district residents the opportunity to use certain elements of this facility not only in competition sports but also in recreational sports. So I think, in full agreement with Mr State Secretary, that this bill does not contain any risk that could not bring a single support to the Hungarian Parliament. I myself am asking all my fellow opposition and pro-government Members to support the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-04-152	Thank you. I give the floor to György Szilágyi, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2017-04-04-153	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I'm glad that on a sports issue like this, at least Fidesz has someone who knows about sports and sports, because I thought Erik Bánki wouldn't come to the trial of such a bill, but he's here. I understand that you are calling for the support of Members for such a proposal, just in order for Members to be able to support such a proposal, we should at least focus on the basics and a very small amount of attention, let us say, on how much they regard Members as partners. Congressman Bánki knows precisely that in 2015, when we adopted Annex 1 and when they gave the trust rights of various sports facilities to Ferencváros, BVSC, Honvéd, and may I say so, we agreed here in this horseshoe, and you said that I was right, that next time they would not submit such a thing, where they would only indicate location numbers, and they would not add anything to it. Now, the same thing happened, we got the location numbers, and we're supposed to have no idea what areas we're talking about. And it is not entirely true that only four new areas have been introduced here, because there are other changes. Then I'll ask the author or even the Secretary of State to answer me what has changed, say, at the Újpest Gymnastics Association, where the 74331/1. No. 1 but not yet sued in 2015. Suing may mean that the site has been divided, some part of it has been transferred, some part of it remains, let's say, with the Hungarian National Asset Manager, but which part has been transferred to another, and which part remains with the trustee. You might suspect that the stadium in Újpest probably stayed with the trustee, but then which parts went away. But there is also such a change, I would also like to know, at the Budapest Honvéd Sports Association, where missing is /1, and there is only a 27999 local map number. There's probably some kind of merger. So my problem is that we are discussing something in the first place by you describing that the construction of Fradiváros is taking place at Ferencváros, so the Construction Sports Facility will be handed over to Ferencváros on some level of asset management, but it is not written down. [[16.40]] So we don't ask for such a big deal, and we didn't ask for such a big thing two years ago: describe what this area has been used for and why it should be given to asset management. These are the two things we'd like. And I say that it would be safe to talk and argue about these things here, and let's say that Members can look at things better. Regardless of the fact that I do not want to save the job, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary - because it can - is in my hand, so I can work with them, but I think it would be the job of the author. The other thing is that we talk about it here - and then we can turn around a little bit - Erik Bánki said that in America, three times the money that is spent on sports, and this is indeed an international trend, it is a statement. It's just not entirely true for us, because in America, what is intended for sport is also spent on sport, in ours, some of it is spent on sport, some of it is put in their pockets by certain people, and then there will be no three times this multiplier; this is not entirely true in my opinion in Hungary. Nevertheless, I say that really, the money spent on sports is very important, and the question is, let's say, in these real estates, this money spent on sports will pay off and how much it will work. The problem is that the way it works for you is that you don't know a lot - and you don't tell the opposition about these things - I imagine that someone, a powerful man, from the benches of Fidesz, is sitting in a certain chair, and then one day, Gábor - I don't know why that name came to my mind - knocks on his door and says that you, listen, we'd like to build a Fradi City, give us, please, the Builders Sports Camp. And then he says, "Okay, all right, then we'll give you that." Kristóf Szatmáry - because you are already everywhere in all Hungarian sports, at the head of almost all associations - also knocks on the door and says that we should, too, take a look at it, and it would be good if we could do anything at BVSC, give these and these areas to the BVSC. Then Leisztinger comes, yeah, he's not fidesz, I forgot, he's not fidesz, he's an MSZP oligarch, and you're not hurting him because he gave some people a significant part of Hunguest Hotels, and then he started doing Diosgyőr. And here comes the question, since Leisztinger has come to my mind, and I almost confused that he belongs to you, but, well, now yes, anyway, my question to Leisztinger is that if we change a word that seems technically technical, not in order to improve sports life in Budapest or not, but in order to improve sports life in Hungary, we will open the gate, so from now on rural areas can be added to asset management, I think they already have an idea of why this should be done. We'd like to know. What's the reason? They ask for our support, but they don't even tell them the plans, so let's say, I don't know, you know, maybe, I don't know, if it's about the pecan stadium or something. 'Cause now you're starting to think they're gonna give someone the Tata training camp? These are all guesses. So it would be nice to be told here, if you are already asking for the support of Members, what your plans are for the state-owned real estate used for sports purposes, which you may be giving to one of the sports associations under asset management law. You may want to give us areas that would be eligible, but we don't know anything about it. Should we support something by not knowing what its purpose is, or what you have in mind, or what your purpose is? Just as there is no way to know, and I would like to know this, let us say, on the question, now thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for at least saying a thing or two, that you will give Ferencváros 10 billion forints on this Builder area to achieve something there, and also that you will have to pay a certain fee for this property management right - but how much? - that we are in line with the European Union; if we could hear any sentence about how much what we say Ferencváros has to pay, then perhaps we could take a much better and much better stand for such matters. But for now, as long as you submit a bill in this way, as long as, on the basis of agreements, we have asked you to ignore, let us say, the opposition representatives and do not treat them as partners, I think it is quite a request that we jump into it blindly and support ideas that you have come up with, cooked up somewhere, decided somewhere, and then come here and say that we should support them. That's a tough one to ask, I'll tell you the truth. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-04-154	Thank you. As the MSZP is not present today, we have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki.
u2017-04-04-155	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Szilágyi is absolutely right, indeed, in the course of the last amendment, when, indeed, a long list of properties were included in the annex to the Sports Act, which were necessary for the development areas of the Budapest Swimming, Swimming, Swimming, Swimming, Waterball and Long-term Word World Championship, we stayed in the five-party discussions and then here in Parliament, so that it is fair to mention the property in particular, not only the location number, but also what it is about in nature. I have prepared for this, Congressman, because the bill does not contain this, but I have remembered my earlier promise, so I am now trying to help you with this, in case it also helps to support the Jobbik faction. Now, please, the largest area in particular is 38442/12. Local property No. X. district, which is 62 080 square meters in size, so it is slightly more than 6 hectares, otherwise it is a historic building and sports function, so it is a sports field at the moment as well. There is also a sales valuation, which takes the value of this area to HUF 800 million. The other is also in District X, 38442/13. landmark number of real estate, 546 square meters of own use road connected to the same sports site. The third is also in District X in 38442/14. It is also a sports establishment, which is smaller, 14 911 square meters, and is also a monument. Finally, 38442/15. engraving number of private roads taken in 1888 square metres. So this sports establishment, consisting of four areas, is, in fact, the one that is located in the eastern part of the large colony, the Népliget area, along the railway track, parallel to it, on a trail in the north-east-southwest direction. The explanation is that from Vajda Péter Street there will also be an accessibility to the development of Fradiváros. So from the east it is bordered by the railway station and from the south it is the park of Népliget, and from the west it is the other three properties forming the sports yard, which now surrounds this four-stone package. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] Number 12, 13, 14 and 15. [[György Szilágyi: The Újpest...]] I hope that Mr Secretary of State can answer that, I have no information about the other two real estates that you asked me, and I am prepared for this, and I very much hope that this addition will also help the Jobbik faction to support this technical amendment. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-04-156	I ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the item on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-04-04-157	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of previous experience, it is clear that we would have been ahead if the text of the proposal had been extended. As my fellow Member Bánki has mentioned, otherwise there is absolutely no secret in it, not even extra work, it is in our hands, we can say. The four real estate bodies in Folk Grove were described in detail by Congressman Bánki. You asked about Újpest and the Honvéd. Both land formations, so Hungarian state ownership remains in both, there is no change. Land formation. This has its own use, requests for network sharing and sharing; there are such differences in use, but no change in ownership will be made in these cases, so all remain in the Hungarian state. [[16.50]] I trust that, with these additions, Jobbik will support this proposal, for which I ask again both him and the other opposition parties. Thank you for this opportunity, Mr President.
u2017-04-04-158	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. It follows from the 2013 XXXVII on certain rules for international administrative cooperation on tax and other public burdens. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/14679. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy.
u2017-04-04-159	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The bill will lead to a further extension of the mandatory automatic exchange of information in 2016/881. It implements the adoption of the EU Directive at home. The aim of the Directive is to provide the tax authorities of the EU Member States with information on the structure, transfer pricing of multinational groups and on certain transactions in the EU and beyond. This information allows Member States to take appropriate risk analysis and tax control measures against the phenomenon of tax evasion and avoidance and to detect the artificial transfer of profits of individual enterprises. Greater tax transparency as a result of the regulation can encourage multinational groups to comply with their tax liability to the extent required by law in the country where they gain profits, including in Hungary. Improving the transparency of multinational groups is therefore an essential part of the fight against tax base erosion and profit shifting. The bill before Parliament imposes obligations on the Hungarian tax-resident reporting organisation of multinational groups. The most important of these obligations is that the reporting entity of the multinational group has to submit a country-by-country report for each financial year with specific data content. The reporting entity may itself be the ultimate parent undertaking or an entity designated to the parent undertaking or, in specific circumstances, a group member. In the country-by-country report, multinational companies shall provide the amount of group revenue, the pre-tax result and the profit tax paid and payable for each State in which they are engaged in business. MNEs should also provide data on their number of employees, their subscribed capital, accumulated profits and tangible assets for the State in which they operate. Finally, such groups of companies should indicate all entities belonging to the group that are engaged in business in that State and indicate the business activities of those entities. On the basis of the bill, the deadline for submitting a country-by-country report shall be 12 months from the last day of the reporting financial year. In order to facilitate the efficient use of public resources and to reduce the administrative burden on companies, only multinational groups whose annual consolidated income exceeds EUR 750 million are affected by this regulation. The tax authority shall forward the reports thus received to all States in which, on the basis of the information contained in the country-by-country report, the multinational group is either resident for tax purposes or subject to tax on the basis of its business. Of course, in the context of the exchange of information, the tax authority not only sends but also receives such reports. The information received will enable States to combat the phenomenon of tax evasion and avoidance by amending legislation, risk analysis and tax control. This could encourage multinational companies to abandon their recent expansion of their cross-border tax planning activities. In order to ensure compliance with the law and to prevent infringements, the bill also provides for the possibility for the tax authority to impose penalties in case of late, incorrect, incorrect or incomplete fulfilment of certain reporting, change reporting and reporting obligations. In addition to the transposition of the relevant EU directive, Hungary signed in December 2016 a multilateral agreement between the competent authorities for the exchange of country-by-country reports, in which it undertakes obligations with the same content as those under the agreement. The bill also serves to implement the commitments entered into by the agreement, so that the exchange of country-by-country reports can take place with countries other than EU Member States. The agreement has so far been signed by almost 60 countries, which means that Hungary can establish an exchange of information with about 30 other countries other than the Member States of the European Union on the country-by-country report. Dear Parliament, Based on what you've said, I would ask you to support the bill. Thank you.
u2017-04-04-160	Thank you. I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2017-04-04-161	Mr President, Dear House, Apparently, we have a very simple bill on the transposition of automatic information exchange rules into domestic law. And indeed, if we look at the willingness and intentions of multinational companies to avoid public burdens, we can say that all kinds of similar movements, processes have place and significance. However, we also need to look at what can be done with these input data and how, in the long term, public burden-sharing policies could be developed that allow the companies concerned to be somewhat closer to domestic small and medium-sized enterprises in terms of their willingness to pay taxes. It can therefore be seen that it is worthwhile to clarify where these companies carry out their activities, where they bill, the extent of their subscribed capital and the amount of their profit and loss reserves. I would recommend to you, Mr Secretary of State, although you may be familiar with the material of the research institute Globopolis, which specifically examined regional countries, and specifically as to the extent to which the tax rules of regional countries are respected by the largest multinational companies. There is an amazing colonial picture of our region as well. Not only would I like to polemise with Mr State Secretary how serious we can take Globopolis' data and what conclusions can be drawn from this, but I say that this is a topic of particular importance that would be worth even a debate day, since in this document Hungary is simply called the tax haven of Central and Eastern Europe. Two of the countries analysed are out, Czech Republic is up and Hungary is down. For example, the total income and activity of the 11 most powerful companies, mainly multi-enterprises, were examined in proportion to the gross domestic product, and we see that while this total revenue corresponds to a quarter of the total domestic product, the money received from them in the form of corporate tax is only 2 percent of the total corporate tax, i.e. 2 percent of the total corporate tax, the remaining 90 percent was produced by Hungarian small and medium-sized companies in the case of Hungary. [[17.00]] On average, about 0.35% of these 11 largest companies paid taxes on their profits. So you've taken on a small tax burden that calls for a trial. After all, Mr Secretary of State, either you have unduly benefited from these companies, or you may have made additional concessions in your strategic contracts that allowed them to make use of this completely brutal data. After all, we see that even the most powerful multi-enterprises, which you have reduced to 9 percent from the beginning of the year, are not willing to pay much of the corporate tax. So the location of the damsel would be quite different if at least this reduced level were paid into the budget pro rata, in line with the spirit of public burden-sharing. But what we see is that they won't do that. And this report, this document, highlighted the Czech Republic in the other direction, where the tax burden on the companies we are talking about is actually the biggest. And we find that while, in Hungary, this figure I mentioned was 0.35%, as far as the tax burden is concerned with the largest companies, the Czech Republic is over 20 percent. So we find a gap that's almost inexplicable. They often say that you have often said that you want to compete with the relatively cheap nature of the Hungarian workforce, and if the multi-enterprises, the networks here, were to be more burdened, they would obviously pick up their tents and go to cheaper regions. But the fact is that in the Czech Republic, these companies pay about five percent of their extra profit to the budget without further ado. They don't rip up the cables, they don't tear down the plant buildings, they don't kick the workers out in bulk. We see that it is a country in the region. It's quite simply unexplainable between us. I do not want to, because I am aware of the realities of the fact that in Hungary we should pay the most brutal tax to companies that, although they only give a fraction of jobs, contribute to an increase in GDP. But I would like Hungary not to be ashamed in a regional comparison at least; it should not be at the end of the line. I think it is very important that what has been put before us here is to know the amount of revenue from connected and unrelated parties, but the amount of pre-tax profit and the tax paid is already well-known in a broader database. At the same time, I would be very interested in the opinion of the Secretary of State on this gap in burden-sharing, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, at the same time, at the same time, in the light of spontaneous privatisation and historical differences, the amazing and roaring gap resulting in foreign companies, large companies, taking on less than 1 percent of the tax burden in Hungary, and here, in another country in the region, more than 20 percent. I think it makes sense to debate the issue at a deeper level if we get at least basic answers of 1.0. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-04-162	Thank you. I now give the floor to Tamás László, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-04-04-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! The proposal before us is a very important step in making the Member States of the European Union more effective in combating tax evasion and evasion. The tax automatic exchange of information set out in the proposal is, in this respect, a key public interstate instrument. The European Commission has already highlighted in a Communication of 6 December 2012 the need to strongly promote the automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, as transparency and information exchange facilitate the work of tax administrations in the Member States. It should be pointed out that multinational groups of companies operating in several countries have more opportunities to carry out more extensive so-called tax planning, i.e. optimizing their taxation. This tax planning affects domestic, typically small and medium-sized enterprises in terms of competition, as their relative tax burden may be higher than that of multinational groups. The tax authorities therefore need information on the transfer pricing activities of multinational groups. This information allows Member States to take appropriate risk analysis and tax control measures against the phenomenon of tax evasion and avoidance. The objective of the regulation is clearly to ensure that the multinational groups concerned carry out their tax obligations in the country where profits are generated and do not avoid this by different profit shifting techniques. With the adoption of the bill, the Hungarian legislation takes over Council Directive 2016/881/EU, which aims to require multinational groups to submit a country-by-country report each year to account for their revenue, results, tax bases, activities, employee numbers, subscribed capital. Unlike so far, more information will be available to the authorities in order to achieve better results through proper processing. On the basis of the bill, a multinational group whose consolidated income in its consolidated annual consolidated accounts for the financial year preceding the reporting financial year is less than EUR 750 million or the sum of HUF approximately equal to the average exchange rate of January 2015 published by the National Bank of Hungary. Therefore, the reporting obligation concerns only groups of companies above this size. On the basis of the bill, the deadline for the fulfilment of the obligation, i.e. the country-by-country report, is 12 months from the last day of the reporting financial year. The bill provides for performance within 12 months of the last day of the reporting financial year starting on or after 1 January 2016 as the first date of the submission of a country-by-country report by a Hungarian parent company resident in Hungary or by an organisation designated as a Hungarian tax resident. The state tax authority will receive country reports from other countries through the exchange of information, which includes data from Hungarian resident group members of a multinational group. The bill contains the guarantee rules that data received from other States in the framework of automatic exchange of information can only be used for risk analysis and economic and statistical analysis related to transfer pricing, base erosion and profit shifting. However, the information thus received may be used for additional tax increases and, as a result, findings concerning the tax liability of the group members may be made. The agreement has so far been signed by 32 countries outside the Member States of the Union, which means that, following its publication, the partners involved in the exchange of reports between countries can be significantly expanded. In addition to the above mentioned exchange of information, the bill also seeks to comply with other international obligations, as it is also capable of implementing the provisions of the multilateral agreement between the competent authorities for the exchange of country-by-country reports. The OECD Agreement was signed by Hungary in December 2016 and is in the process of being published. The Agreement provides for provisions between the Contracting Parties on the compilation of country-by-country reports and the exchange of tax administrations with the same EU Directive. Dear House, I believe that the bill clearly contains positive measures for the tax authorities of the European Union to act more effectively against tax evasion, so I ask my fellow Members to support the motion. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-04-04-164	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches are over. Dániel Z. Kárpát indicated that he wished to speak, so you have the opportunity to speak. [[17.10]]
u2017-04-04-165	Mr President, Dear House, Obviously, however, we will not engage in profound discussions on this issue, since everyone agrees that the data to be provided must be organised on the one hand and that, on the other hand, we will finally meet with a meaningful intention to implement it. However, I would like to inspire both Mr State Secretary and his dear colleagues that no directive obliges us, where appropriate, to request data at such depths. Therefore, it might be worth considering that the threshold of EUR 750 million that has been put on paper should be taken into account to a reduced extent, where appropriate. It would not be far from me if, where appropriate, the same data were available for companies with lower turnover. It also needs to be seen that if our aim in the multi-company network is not to stop the money laundering altogether, because I feel that slowing down can be the real goal at the moment, with later techniques to stop it, then together we should also find answers - once again I turn to Mr State Secretary - about what we should do with a multi-company which, under the title of renting an IT system, is cheating out a hundred billion-dollar item, and therefore its pre-tax and post-tax results remain essentially the same. What should we do with the person who says that he rents manufacturing technology from the parent company, and in the same way takes the forints away from Hungary in the order of ten billion, a hundred billion? So, based only on the series of data before me, I see that both GE and Audi meet years where the profit shown before tax is essentially the same as the profit shown after tax, which, even if we add the benefits to this system, paints a very negative picture. In fact, I will go further until, say, Turkey, other countries have been able to do so by imposing a fixed supplier ratio for the multinationals that are established there, and even the way this has been determined in many cases, I feel that Hungary has missed these opportunities, especially for car manufacturers. I do not even see whether a normal statement of the supplier's share and its quality would be available in the branches of the government, because then it would be possible to argue facts and figures. I would like to have a civilised professional debate on this, but to do so, we should know the government's intentions as to how the multinationals want to prevent or at least slow down these cheating tricks, because it is a thousand billion-dollar scale, a brutal amount on an annual basis. I say that if only 10-20 percent of this could be caught or taxed, this could be a HUF 300-400 billion extra income for the Hungarian budget. This may not be a realistic goal next year, but it should be a 10-year perspective. However, we need to have substantive debates on how this works. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-04-166	Thank you. If there is no further intention to comment, the general debate will be closed and I will give Mr State Secretary the opportunity to close.
u2017-04-04-167	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I thank the two Members very much for their speech. Dániel Z. Kárpát should allow so many responses that it is indeed a great responsibility and task for how a country develops its tax system and how it can attract and attract large investment companies, capital, technology, and job creation companies to a given country. After all, by creating value, it creates GDP, pays taxes, creates jobs, gives the Hungarian people the right to exist, obviously it is good for the country. It is no coincidence that there is a very strong competition on this issue at international level. Hungary, the Hungarian government, has chosen to reduce income taxes, and this is also true of Hungarian individuals, personal income tax, individuals who receive income in Hungary, and is also true of companies. In the present case, it reduced the corporate tax rate to 9 percent. But when you say that by looking at these multinational companies from this point of view, they have a lower share of public burdens, I think you're right about that, but what we need to look at is why. Basically, I believe that, because of the development benefits granted in Hungary, they pay less income tax, i.e. income tax, corporate tax, even if we do this in an international comparison. At the same time, by employing employees, the payment of personal income tax, the employer's tax and social contribution tax are significantly higher, or perhaps the general sales tax if it creates a product or service that it sells domestically. If we look at the structure of the Hungarian tax system, the development of tax revenues in the last year, we see that the state budget is completely shifted in this direction, that the overall turnover tax is higher - of course other measures were needed to do so, the measures against the grey economy - since 2012, general turnover has increased by more than HUF 1000 billion and, interestingly, the revenue from personal income tax is increasing, which has already reached the revenue level with the single-key system, than when there was progressive taxation in Hungary, so we are already paying as much tax into the state budget. The amount of taxes paid by the burden of living work is also gaining increasing weight in the state budget. The reason for this is that the government is actually pursuing a tax policy that creates a medium that is a favourable climate for multinational companies and investment firms, but at the same time, by creating and producing here and here, it is doing good here, I think, for the country as well. And what it means to control multinational companies, I would like to say that the tax authority has a separate directorate, the board of senior taxpayers - also in other countries - and they are given special attention on one side as a service, which is provided by the tax authority, and on the other hand, the best professionals from a control perspective, prepared professionals are controlling these companies and actually controlling systems. They are essentially in daily contact with the respective companies. In particular, transfer prices will receive a high control weight, as you have mentioned, to ensure that the value or goods produced in Hungary are not taxed in the country where it is created, transferred to other countries and possibly taxed in other countries. Although this is unlikely to be the case after a tax rate of 9%. I think that the government is pursuing a responsible tax policy, and evidence of this is, for example, that today the labour market is characterised by the absence of labour force in Hungary and not by unemployment. This has now become a daily problem for the country. However, this law is not about that; it is about joining an international convention, and when we talk about the limit of EUR 700 million, it is also determined by the EU directive, so we cannot change it ourselves. To do so, the country joins, it must be put into law, and to do so again, I call for the support of the opposition in favour of the ruling parties. Thank you again for your speeches.
u2017-04-04-168	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agenda. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-04-169	Mr President, Dear House, My objective is that Members in the Hungarian Parliament and even employees are tired of me constantly bringing up the need to resolve the situation of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit. With this quote-marked boredom, my goal is to see as much as possible on this issue. It was very disappointing for us that the government fought here again this week with various dragons and imaginary monsters, there is always another: once, I think, George Soros is an archenemy of the Hungarians, sometimes CEU or Central European University will appear in a similar status. At the same time, real, meaty problems and issues are not mentioned at the appropriate level. After all, during these two sittings of this week, foreign exchange credit was protested before Parliament. [[17.20]] This demonstration, as far as I know, is being conducted, clearly because their situation has become unsustainable, so we are still aware of a contract of over 140,000, which has not been complete or fully capable for at least three months, and of the family members behind them, who can be reached at any time by the horror of eviction. Now the issue of the so-called price barrier has finally been published in the news. With regard to the price barrier, the five-year term will soon expire in the case of a large number of contracts, as a result of which the sums accumulated on the collection accounts may now fall on the neck of the families concerned by one mass. There is a mass of professional calculations, rather than an estimate, because a good part of these estimates say that more than half or even two thirds of the contracts concerned result in a very measurable increase in the amount on the exchange-gate collection accounts, so this is the maturity. For this reason Jobbik, since we believe that a total block of exchange rates is derived from a wrong legislative step, a poor settlement law, proposes that the sums collected on these collector accounts should not be charged to the tens of thousands or even hundreds of thousands of customers with a price barrier agreement, a contract, but that this perhaps not-existent debt should indeed be borne by the damage banks that created this situation. We must add that the responsibility of the government cannot be waived either, because if it did not create a faulty accounting law, but, listening to Jobbik, it will HUF these so-called loans at the rate of admission, then the construction of the exchange rate barrier would simply not have been necessary. So one mistake led to another, but now at least in order to avoid further worsening of the already serious situation, it would be very important to provide air for these families, to provide life opportunities, because if more tens of thousands of people over 140 thousand already fall or fall close to the authentic, this number may go up to 200,000, an unmanageable situation may arise, the already dehydrated economic situation may continue to escalate, and the country may march towards a socio-social cataclysm situation that no one can benefit from, and a governing party can certainly not, especially a year before the elections. I don't even understand, to be honest, why you tolerate images and reports of evictions. Okay, this appears very rarely in the mass media, but in the world of social media, in the third millennium, it is not possible to hide that hundreds, thousands of families are on the streets, most of them unwarrantedly, and those who are in such a situation needing the self-organization of civilians, because they rarely receive help from so-called official places. This is why I find it completely unfair that, after the five-year deadline for price-blocking contracts, the families concerned have to deal with these situations alone without providing substantial political settlement assistance. In my view, only a new accounting law can help, and until this new accounting law is established, some kind of grace should be given to these families so that no additional burdens are imposed on them. We understand that the Government of Hungary seemed to agree with the EBRD and even with the Banking Alliance, along with conditions that do not impose additional burdens on the banks concerned in order to protect or help the victims, but it can be seen that this deal of yours is quite simply unsustainable, and that they must break it up, bring the victims back to normal, traceable situations, and not give them aid, it is very important, but in the spirit of truth, only as much as it goes back, but certainly that. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-04-170	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting next week, Monday at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 5:24 p.m.]]
