u2017-12-11-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 28th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear House, I am fulfilling my sad duty to inform the Honourable Parliament that Dr. Katalin Molnár died in the 63th year of his life. At the 2002 parliamentary elections in the 25th constituency of Budapest, he was elected Parliamentary Representative in the colours of the Hungarian Socialist Party. Between 2002 and 2006 he was also a member of the Committee on Constitutional and Judicial Affairs, the Environment and Employment and Labour. Dr. Katalin Molnár devoted his entire life to the public service. From 1994 onwards, Annex XVII is amended as follows: He became a representative of the local government of the district, and became mayor of the district from 1998 and worked as a representative of the Metropolitan Municipality following the mandate of his parliamentary representatives. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our dead fellow Member. [[The people in the room pay tribute to Dr. Katalin Molnár with a one-minute stand.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, For a pre-meeting speech, Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi, represented by the MSZP, spoke with the title "Our current affairs." I'll give the floor to the congresswoman. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-1	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In Hungary, every third child is starving, of which 200,000 are present in severely endangered categories. In seven years, the number of hospital infections has doubled - under your government - and 30,000 people could be saved a year if you spent public money on hospitals and health instead of football and stadiums. In addition, in seven years more than 50,000 children were dropped out of school, not only without a professional education but without a primary education, and please, in the last seven years we have made it to half of the country's net income below HUF 100,000. I ask you, ask us, MSZPs, is this a strong, proud nation state? Is that what you consider to be so strong and growing, where one in three high school students would like to start their university and college studies abroad? Well, please, if this is the balance of so-called right-wing government by the grace of God, then I highly recommend that you ring the alarm bells urgently. Dear fellow Members, note once and for all that we govern democracy not by the grace of God, but by the will of the people. In democracy, those who refer to God's mercy and not to popular sovereignty question the meaning of the entire election. Please, a prerequisite for democracy is that political actors look at each other as partners and mutually accept each other's existence. In this system, which has been built over the last seven years, you see political partners and actors as enemies and not political opponents. All kinds of lies and slanders can accuse political actors and even condemn them in conceptual lawsuits and even question their existence at the end of the day. You do this not only with your political partners, but also with the rest of the public. There is a reference to the will of the people. Please, it's limping in your eyes, too. In 2014, the majority did not support Fidesz. If we take into account the votes cast on you and its distribution, including cross-border votes, we can safely and clearly say that more than 55 percent of the country and voters did not cast their votes on you, and certainly did not give themselves two-thirds in 2014. Please, ladies and gentlemen, if we add that by 2014 you have lost more than 560 thousand votes compared to 2010, while the reduction in mandates was only 1.3, we can say that you cannot rely on the election, so not only would you govern by God's grace, please, but you have obtained the two-thirds on the basis of a manipulated, endlessly distorted electoral law. Finally, we can say that democracy cannot be argued or relied on by God's grace, only by popular sovereignty, and you, too, knew because you have seriously distorted and changed the electoral law, so you cannot rely not only on God's grace but also on the will of the people. [[11.10]] We will call out the fourth republic if we win the elections. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Ferenc Gyurcsány?]] I ask you, please, not only to be their wonderful and divine Presidents of the Republic, but to have a real Hungarian democratic republic for Hungary. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-12-11-2	By the grace of the people now [[Demercation in the ranks of the governing parties and the LMP.]] I give the floor to Secretary Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would not respond now that Congresswoman Kunhalmi is trying to override the official results of the election, but I would like to say that we are listening with interest to the MSZP on how to improve the Hungarians' livelihood. However, I would like to say that the previous actions of the left cast a long shadow on their current proposals. Because you are the ones who have indebted the country; who have released foreign currency loans to families; who have doubled unemployment; who have been involved in a robbery privatisation; and not least: they would have paid for health care - you are referring to health care. Typically, there was a year, a year during socialist governance, when the economy grew by 7 percent. After such a history, when the MSZP starts promising, it is better for all of us to take cover, even because one thing from their recently published program is clearly drawn out, and this is the intention of a drastic tax increase. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Where did you read it?]] All opposition parties have some kind of mania; it seems that the MSZP is raising taxes. Then the other reason why I would take advice from the MSZP carefully is that your party is in a state of total disintegration. We usually listen to you here on Mondays, make all sorts of suggestions, and then they retire, and they don't care about anything but what positions they'd get, where they'd fight, who'd hand over their place, who'd be on the list, who'd be on the list, everything, but the country's future. The total breakdown is characterized by the fact that they don't even have a Prime Minister's candidate. Well, how can you take seriously a party that doesn't even have a candidate a few months before the election? If I understand it correctly, they would like to flirt politically with Gergely Christmas - they would do so by saying that Gyula Molnár couldn't even hit which party he was political in. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It makes this election even more interesting that Gergely Christmas earlier, according to press reports, said at a forum that she hated the socialists more than Fidesz. Then, of course, he tried to deny it all. But I could also tell you that when you joined the left before the previous elections, with the other left parties, the only way you could deal with this was by taking a shot, and they themselves told you that afterwards. One thing is good to make clear: when chaos settles on the left, it means that in general, Ferenc Gyurcsány is still the master of the house. He's in the middle, he's in control of the tempo, and he's got the left-wing leaders checking in, giving each other the doorknob so they can settle with him. So the past sneaks back to the left and settles there. But as disintegrated as you are, you have kept your bad habit of making decisions contrary to the interests of this country. Because in Brussels a few days ago, the MSZP representative voted in favour of the compulsory resettlement quota. Back home, they denied it, you said immigration was a fake problem, and then in Brussels, they voted in favour of the proposals to facilitate immigration. They voted that introductions should be launched on a mandatory basis, despite the fact that 98 percent of Hungarians rejected this in last year's referendum. Now, that's how much you can trust the security of this country - not at all. But the thing is, there are no other things to expect MSZP to do, and there is one thing to do: many of you expect to compensate for the many elderly people and students who have been damaged by one of your leaders, Csaba Czeglédy. We also rightly expect the left to take action towards compensation [[Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: What else do you have up your sleeve?]] because the company connected to the Gyurcsány family has made three payments to Csaba Czeglédy's company, and they have confessed to it. It'd be nice if you could clear the air. Because if they didn't move, they would prove for many times that the MSZP is the same party that almost destroyed the country once and would do so again if it were possible; fortunately, this is clear not only to us but also to the voters. This may be very bad news for you, but it is very good for the country. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-4	At the same time, the LMP Group leader, Mrs Bernadett Szél, has applied for a speech before the agenda. What is now called corruption is, in effect, the main policy of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fidesz truth is that what they call corruption is basically the main policy of Fidesz. You admitted that two years ago, and you were proud to be corrupt and corrupt to the core, and after that disclosure, I think there's no wonder that on Saturday, World Anti-Corruption Day, Fidesz wasn't celebrating at all. Perhaps they were at a pig's slaughter - wasn't they, Mr. Puddle? - and they continued the national consultation there: they wrote on a scorched pig that he was in charge. It's an uplifting campaign. Congratulations. I think you can destroy all Hungarian traditions in your own image. Shame on you, one by one. The way I see it, corruption is like air for Hungarian people: if there is no corruption, then Fidesz is about over. The system of Viktor Orbán is not viable without the continuous supply of corruption. The point of NER is that you don't have noodles anymore, and you don't eat 40 ounces of Paris in the process, but you only let everyone know under what conditions you can win various greasy orders, and whoever goes into this business becomes part of the system and becomes addicted to you. The way we see it in the LMP, it's how you shredded a significant part of this country, and you'd be in a lot of trouble if you didn't have something to pay for your oligarchs and your own little Dobkolyi. [[11.20]] The LMP is completely independent of this system, and that's why we can be the starters of a new era in this country. We are independent of you, independent of your system, and we can start a new era in this country. [[A voice from Fidesz: You depend only on George Soros!]] We are your opposites, and the LMP government will be Hungary's first non-corruption government. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] There are more and more of us who know that there is a government that doesn't come out of the pocket of an oligarch. We know that for the last 27 years in this country, as Professor Ángyán said, people have been robbed on shifts. We also saw that there was no consequence, whether it was a left-wing government or a right-wing government, it was always the little people who were wrong, because they were the ones who didn't have a good school, they couldn't get their children to a doctor, they had to hide gratuity money in the hospital, there was no education, health and shitty wages, and if they had any problems, no one helped them. We see that this lack of consequence must be brought to an end. As I have promised you, we have prepared the indictment - this is the first version - that after the change of government and era in 2018, these will be those people, these will be the suspects of crime and the facts in Btk. that we will begin to account for. Starting with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, Minister Antal Rogán, Flórian Farkas, Péter Polt, András Tállai, György Simonka, Gábor Varga, Roland Mengyi, Sándor Fazekas, Zoltán Balog, Árpád Habony, Andy Vajna, Lőrinc Mészáros, István Tiborcz, András Patyi, György Matolcsy, Norbert Szivek. They're gonna be the first people we start accounting with. And here are also the list of suspects of crime and the facts in Btk.: fiscal fraud, administrative abuse, money laundering, misappropriation, embezzlement, bribery, withdrawal of debt, influence of trafficking. There's everything on your list of shames! That's the government performance you've had for the last seven years, and you should be ashamed to try and cover it up in front of people with a brainwashing. There are more and more of us who know how to govern this country without corruption, and there are more and more of us who know that the money you steal is for education, it is for health care, it is for schools and hospitals, and it is for wages for Hungarian people. They're not gonna get away with it because we don't forget at all. People who stole public money have no forgiveness, because corruption is not a faceless monster, not an invisible monster who steals our money. Corruption has a face, corruption has a name, and we know exactly who they are. Every day, week after week, they sit across from me in Parliament. Because you, respected Fidesz and KDNP are all co-conspirators in the operation of this terrible system. It's you, and you're welcome to take it personally, because of whom there's not enough CT and MR in this country. You're the ones who don't have enough schools, and you're the ones who make people work for lousy wages in this country. You are responsible, because you support this system, you press a button on this system, and you are partners in all destruction, and also in discrediting the country's international reputation. Nothing is precious to you if you want to fear for your power. But the Wind Government will take back the stolen money from you and your accomplices one by one. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] Ákos Hadházy's persistent work gives us the evidence, and the LMP's 11-point anti-corruption package is the guarantee that it will never happen again in this country, that the Government of Hungary systematically steals Hungarian people. Hungary will be a clean, proud and rich country, because there is a party in this country that does not have any oligarchs in its pocket, and this may be Other Politics.
u2017-12-11-6	It's over. Secretary of State, I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It was characteristic of communism that the parties carried out judicial activities. If I understand correctly, this is the time they'd be bringing back. [[Noise in the lines of LMP and MSZP.]] Nevertheless, I would like to tell you that the fight against corruption is in our common interest, and that is why Hungary now has one of the strictest public procurement laws in Europe, which is why the government has repressed VAT fraud, which is why the EU application system has been transformed, so it is required that every company that receives a mandate from the state must have a transparent ownership structure. I would like to tell you that this was not the case before 2010, nor was it possible to know who would receive state orders. And the fact is, honourable Member, if you are so interested in fighting corruption, then why do you not say a word about Csaba Czeglédy, who may have lost 3 billion forints and among the victims we find elderly and students. They won't say a word about it, he's not on this list. This also describes what this is really about. [[Dr. László Kács: Who are you talking about? About Csaba Tarsoly?]] Allow me to say that on your speeches, we've been feeling Ron Werber's handiwork for weeks. It is an interesting story, however, that the party that proclaimed that politics could be different has justified the scandalous campaigner to whom the ugliest, ugliest moments of Hungarian politics are linked, such as the 23 million Romanians. We can't ask you for much, and we can't hope for you, but one thing we ask is that at least the Hungarians from abroad are not attacked as Ron Werber did in his previous period. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You also told me about your government plans, so I'd like to respond to that. You have not long since published the LMP's election program, in which there are oddities, and there are things in it that would seriously affect people from work. [[Noise in the lines of LMP and MSZP.]]
u2017-12-11-8	Congresswoman, you have already given your opinion, please remain silent. You've already given us your opinion, we've heard it.
u2017-12-11-9	I am talking about the programme, honourable Member - I have listened to you - which is on your website, you can look at it. It is clearly included in this programme - I bought it from the fact that the LMP reiterates that the single-key tax system would be abolished. So instead of the current 15% tax rate, a multi-key system would be introduced again, i.e. a drastic tax increase. We remember what that means. It means that a little above average earners are also in the highest range. The middle class with the child carried most of the burden, and this is the period you want to bring back. In your program, the system of family tax incentives is also strongly criticised, saying that they will end the current practice. That's outrageous. This is where the socialists left off. They would plow the family support system, which, by the way, has already left over HUF 3000 billion in the pockets of families raising children. The programme also talks about austerity and negative wage competition. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the wages in Hungary today are more than 30 percent higher than in 2010, and the austerity is not the civic government, but the mania of the left, to which you belong. I no longer mention in detail that they say no to the investment in Paks, but they do not give a real answer as to who would pay for the resulting rising electricity prices and the difference. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Ripper Lawrence.]] Because if the LMP didn't pay for it, the Hungarian families would have to pay for it. So much for the announced program. It is quite clear that what Ron Werber started with the Socialists will continue with the LMP, and the result will be the same. You are leasing a consultant who proposes a policy of lies mixed with austerity for Hungary. For our part, we don't want any of it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-10	János Latorcai, on behalf of KDNP, applied for a pre-meeting speech on this day, 152 years ago, the house of Hungarian science was inaugurated. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-11	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, allow me to wish you all graciously rich, blessed, merry Christmas holidays. Turning to my agenda: more than 150 years ago, on 11 December 1865, after decades of embarrassing, the house of Hungarian science was inaugurated, the headquarters of the newly completed Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Forty years passed after Széchenyi's famous offer at the Bratislava Parliament, the first secretary-general, János Arany, could move into his study. However, the first idea of creating a Hungarian scientific society was born ninety years before Széchenyi, as Mátyás Bél's 1735 draft, and after several other inconclusive proposals György Bessenyei asked for the establishment of a scientific company in his work entitled "Pious intention to a Hungarian company," and György Fejér's treatise published in 1809 already developed a detailed draft and a proposal. Perhaps that is why Széchenyi deserved the greatest Hungarian title, because he was able to convert thoughts into action. His offer has removed the issue of Hungarian science from the situation in which the debates of the past decades have been untidy. In 1827 the foundation was put into law, but the predecessor of today's Hungarian Academy of Sciences could not begin to function effectively until 1830, after the emperor accepted the statutes and the board of directors of the scientific company could hold their first meeting in Bratislava. Even then, the aim was to create a permanent institution based in Pest, but at the same time the debates against the imperial court, and then the revolution and war of independence in 1848-49 and the subsequent retaliations made it impossible to implement the plans. The relief before the settlement and the public contribution to the construction of the permanent headquarters, especially the will donation of István Széchenyi and the generosity of banker Sina Simon, created the foundation for the construction. The works started in 1862 and were completed exactly 152 years ago, on 11 December 1865. After the agreement, the country could enjoy the fruits of this, as it became a reality, a new content was added to the password of home and progress at the time of reform. The technical development that took place at that time until World War I and the social involvement of the technical intellectuals enabled Hungary to become an advanced part of the world in a short time. The Hungarian Academy of Sciences, of course, has undergone numerous structural and professional changes in the 152 years behind us, but its headquarters remained unchanged, symbolizing the values that are current from the foundation to this day. [[11.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are once again living a world in which, as Count István Széchenyi put it, the power of a nation lies in the multitude of educated heads of man. Therefore, the relationship between science and industry has become more important than ever before, which is also reflected in the government's economic policy. For Hungary's real growth is only possible if we are able to participate in global competition with high added value, knowledge-intensive technologies. In order to achieve this, we need primarily teachers, young people, well-organised education and science policies, as well as a well-functioning Hungarian Academy of Sciences linking science representatives. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-12-11-12	In response, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2017-12-11-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Congressman, Mr. Vice President, Dear House, All we do today is look for the scientists of the future, and when we find them, we try to encourage them to imagine their future here, in Hungary, on a scientific career. The Hungarian school system is now better suited to reduce the various disadvantages, to help those who need to catch up with the average or the higher educational outcomes, and is also able to encourage talent with specific programmes. This is an important day for Hungarian scientific life, which you mentioned on 11 December, but it is at least as important for Hungarian national consciousness, because it is a fundamental question for a country to organise its own scientific life itself, to have a public body, which should also have a worthy placement. This was the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. And it was an equally important step a few years ago that not only scientific life but also artistic life should have an independent public body, which is also an important part of national consciousness, as scientific life can organize on a national basis, as well as artistic life can produce performance and organization in Hungary, support programmes that enable Hungarian art and national art to flourish. Both the existence of the Academy of Sciences and the existence of the new Academy of Arts are capable of expressing sovereignty and independence. It is suitable for supporting both Hungarian scientific and artistic life. This is why we have launched the largest public education and public education development programme in recent decades, and we will renew the school environment for 200,000 students. This means that 535 schools are renewed in nearly 400 settlements in Hungary. These students will have much more modern classrooms, much more modern equipment than before. As I mentioned, 200,000 students can get into a completely renewed environment in the coming years. What is equally important is that the scientific life of the future is already written in digital language, so we spend more than ever, HUF 45 billion on different digital developments in schools. Where three-dimensional display devices are needed, we can now submit them by tender. Where a three-dimensional printer is needed, we can now give it to you by tender. Where VR glasses are needed to be placed in a natural or historical situation, we can now provide this by tender. After all, there have been such wide opportunities that Hungary has never seen before. And we can install the Hungarian schools with the latest technical tools. We hope that they can give rise to scientific life, education in science, an unprecedented boost. On the other hand, digital education is precisely an area where the delay in other, more fortunate Western European countries can be brought in much faster. After all, we can transplant these technologies very quickly. To make money for the various tools, the tools to be replaced, so that they can buy a new bulb for the projectors, we have increased the amount of resources spent on public education and education for children by HUF 500 billion in recent years. Next year's budget already includes 500 billion more for education and education of children, training of the scientific generation of the future than was included in the budget of that year in 2010. If we look at the pay levels of academics and academics, we can see that in 2016 a comprehensive wage increase was launched, which will continue in the next year. On 1 January 2016, wages in higher education increased by 15 percent, this year they will grow by another 5 percent and next year by another 5 percent to appreciate those who train future scientists. In the last five years, we have put 9 billion HUF of new funds into the budget for new scholarships that are intended to encourage talent. During several years, we spent 5 billion forints to encourage students, teachers and researchers in the National Excellence Programme, encouraging the excellent performance of nearly 2 thousand students and educators and researchers. Since 16 we have been offering a net scholarship of between HUF 75 thousand and HUF 350 thousand in order to keep you on the home track, and the financial framework has increased from HUF 2.2 billion to HUF 4 billion. So we hope that beyond the 1900 people so far, we can encourage a lot more young talent. The scholarship for the young talents of the Nation was also able to encourage young talent to the scientific career in hundreds of sizes. The PhD student scholarship was raised from 100,000 to 140 and 180 thousand forints, in order to encourage scientific research. I believe that all of this and the National Research, Development and Innovation Office have an outstanding amount of HUF 82 billion in scientific research, all of which serve to strengthen Hungarian scientific life. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-14	Gergely Gulyás, leader of the Fidesz Group, applied for a pre-meeting address on our current affairs. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The last full legislative session of the parliamentary term between 2014 and 18 will be concluded with the current session. For this reason, it may be worth a brief summary of who we can expect from 4-5 months before the elections. We think it is clear that if we are talking about seeing security and development in the country, the government has done outstandingly well in both areas. In the area of security, first of all, I would like to thank the more than 2.3 million people who have completed the questionnaire for the national consultation. This degree and magnitude of participation shows how particular attention should be paid to the security of the country, that the policy that the government is pursuing in terms of migration, and which is based on us having to determine who we live with and with whom we do not, has found broad support among voters. [[11.40]] We very much regret the fact that there has not been a national unity in this area, and we very much regret the fact that we have to live in the committees and plenary session of the European Parliament on a weekly basis that the representatives of the Balliberal side regularly take a stand against the Hungarian national interest, regularly support the adoption of a quota for resettlement without a ceiling, and try to force us to do so by the European Parliament. We believe that, in order to preserve Hungary's security, it is absolutely necessary that the government should have as much support as possible in this matter as possible, so that national identity can be preserved, so that the security of Hungary can be protected, and that only in this way can we guarantee that the solution for future generations is not guaranteed by a different family policy, not immigration, and that Hungary does not become an immigrant country in any way. If we look at where we have come from in terms of progress, we also see that the opposition's accusation that we need migration is completely untrue so that we do not have to talk about anything else. Let us talk calmly about progress in other areas. Today, more than 740,000 people work in Hungary than they did in 2010 at the time of the change of government. This also shows that the scale of migration cannot be as great as the opposition seeks to indicate, since the 740 thousand people were out of work, did not work in Hungary, and now they are working, and today there is a much greater problem than unemployment. The number of people working in the public sector or in public works has also fallen to 150,000, from 200,000 to 150,000 in total. If we look at what has been achieved in the financial and economic field, we have a balanced budget, predictable growth, a sustainable long-term, good economic perspective, and we can also be proud of the fact that real wages have increased by 13 percent this year, which has not been the case since the regime change. So, overall, we can say that there is a performance behind the government that, along with every mistake, gives us reason to ask voters for confidence to continue. As far as the opposition is concerned, the search for the Hungarian Socialist Party's candidate for Prime Minister is undoubtedly the most amusing in this regard. We can see that the president of the MSZP, for example, believes that he is in dialogue with the Party called Together, but in fact he is in the middle of the Dialogue. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We also see that the leader of this party is still a candidate for Prime Minister of the MSZP, but he regrets that this has come up at all. The other parties of the opposition can only be said that at LMP, the renewal that was presented here by the Prime Minister-designate is marked by Ron Werber, who led the first Hungarian hate campaign here, who introduced hatred in Hungarian politics, whose name is associated with 23 million Romanians. Today, this is morally acceptable and politically acceptable to the LMP in the spirit of renewal. And Jobbik has no particular problem with this, because if there were, Gábor Vona would not make rebuttable or irresistible offers to Bernadett Szél. I think it is clear that today Ron Werber, whom Jobbik was created against, has become acceptable to Jobbik. We believe that in Hungarian politics there is a need for complete renewal on the left, and it is true that today there is a changing atmosphere in the country, not a change of government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-16	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As far as the results are concerned, Hungary closes the year with a growing economy, more jobs and gradually increasing wages, where every Hungarian family has the opportunity to take a step forward in their own life. As regards security risks, after the events of the last few weeks and days, everyone has the right to ask why more and more EU leaders are dealing with Hungary, why more and more people are trying to intervene from abroad in the Hungarian election campaign. The answer is simple: because Hungary is the country that resists failed, dangerous resettlement and immigration plans, so they want to break it, and if Hungary were to be broken, then the quota programme could be launched permanently. Those who want to know what the situation is, what we can expect, do not look at the statements of the opposition, but look at the statements of the politicians in Brussels. Let's take a look. According to the Liberal MEP Sophie in't Veld, the borders should not be closed. According to the left-wing Tanja Fajon, Europe is a migration continent, neither borders nor fences will prevent immigrants from coming here. Frank Engel, who is a Luxembourger, said that it cannot be a European country that does not accept immigrants: we were all immigrants and remain immigrants, he says. This politician also did not hide that the admission of migrants would cost a lot of money to individual countries, and to do so, we need to find the money. Another MEP, Ana Gomes, also proposes how to cover all this. He said that if a Member State says no to resettlement plans, there must be consequences, and the consequences will have an impact if they are pocket-picking. Neither did Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission, who said that there should be a legal opportunity for immigration to Europe. It considers this necessary because it believes that Europe needs immigration in the coming decades. For some reason, he also felt it necessary to declare that Africa has always been a part of our history. The only thing we can write for these politicians is that they play at least clean cards, unlike the Hungarian opposition parties, who deny the existence of the entire resettlement programme while out in Brussels they simply vote without bone. Dear House, As the above statements demonstrate, the situation is now in a hot political sense, Hungary is on the political frontline, and they want the government to give up its position in principle so far. In these circumstances, it is of great importance that more than 2 million 300 000 people participated in the national consultation, and after the partial results, we can say that more than 2 million participants almost unanimously reject the resettlement and all other immigration assistance plans. They don't want introductions, but they want strong border protection. The Hungarians do not want to spend $9 million each on all immigrants, they do not want to put our culture and language in the background, and they also refuse to put countries against illegal immigration under pressure. We would like to thank everyone who stood up and stood up for Hungary. Members present here and all responsible political actors in Hungary are asked to hear the voice of Hungarians, to hear the voice of Hungarians, who, unlike opposition parties, do not want Hungary to become an immigrant country. The fact is that, when we look at the statements of the opposition and listen to them, we see that, for the time being, they can only count on the government and the government parties. The stakes are now no less than Hungary's independence and sovereignty, and this is already a matter of weight that sets the main stakes for next year's election. One thing is certain, the government will agree to the debates, we are ready, we must protect Hungary's security. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-18	The speech before today's last agenda will take place on behalf of Mr Gábor Vona, Head of the Jobbik Group, with the title "The Year of Rebellion" in 2018. Congressman's got the floor.
u2017-12-11-19	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, my fellow Members from KDNP! In April 2018, you will be replaced by Hungarian society, and after April 2018, the Jobbik government will start to put the country in order in six areas. The first area is to protect the security of the country, where we will not only preserve the fence at the southern border, but if necessary, we will build a fence on another section, we will set up the border guard and the settlement bond business next to the fence once and for all, and the participants will be accounted for. The other area will be the restoration of democracy, because you have abolished the system of brakes and balances, and we will, of course, restore this. The third area, where you have also failed to deliver results, is competitiveness, increasing competitiveness, which would require areas and actions that you have not taken. On the one hand, we need a production-oriented, productivity-oriented, innovative economic policy, and we need a modern, XXI. 100th century health care, a modern, XXI. Education policy of the century and, above all, harsh action against corruption and accountability would be needed; therefore, this is the third area. [[11.50]] The fourth area is to reduce our European and international isolation, where very serious ruins will have to be cleaned up again. The fifth area is to reduce migration, which is unfortunately not an adventure, as your prime minister said. We will reverse this trend, slow it down in the first step, and then reverse it, which also takes a lot of steps. For example, foreign exchange lenders need to put a fair and final proposal on the table that will save them from this trap situation. We need a comprehensive home-building action plan. A flexible, fair and secure pension system is needed. And finally, there is a need for something that they also did not participate in and do not participate in, a European-level fight for the Wages Union. And last but not least, the sixth area is about restoring, reducing and reducing social divisions, because you and your predecessors are XX. 20th century divisions, the 20th century. They built their politics on centuries of trauma, right and left. We will go beyond that, and we will also lead Hungarian society and Hungarian public life through the 21st century. To a century, where we will no longer look for what separates us, what separates us, but we will look for what connects us, and we will focus on real problems, on everyday problems, instead of fake problems and manipulation. So these are the six areas where Jobbik will fix the country. Of course, now you can ask me why I am so confident about this after the black Wednesday, when the State Audit Office punished Jobbik for 662 million forints, fined Jobbik. I see some people even smile - smile calmly, it will end someday! Indeed, the attack by the State Audit Office is an astonishing, unprecedented attack in Europe four months before the elections, but I am sure that Jobbik will win, and I am sure that you will be swept away by Hungarian society in April. But why? Because this whole procedure, obviously initiated by Viktor Orbán, the corrupt tyrant, proves not our weakness, but his and your weakness. Gentlemen, We're not afraid here - you're afraid here, you're shaking here, not the Jobbik! Viktor Orbán, the corrupt tyrant, tries to destroy, clean up, destroy the only party of the opposition, the only government-changer, four months before the elections, thus pulling down the blinds of democracy and finally reaching his dream of achieving a dictatorship in Hungary. However, this desperate move, my honourable fellow Members of the Fidesz, with KDNP, will not weaken us, but, believe me, will only strengthen us, and from Friday at five o'clock in Budapest we will express it with a torched, peaceful demonstration. And I know, and knowing your depraved attitude, I'm sure they'll send provocators there, but trust me, this won't prevent our peaceful and awareness-raising demonstration. I have some good advice for you at the same time. László Domokos should resign immediately, that's the minimum. The second is that Viktor Orbán must withdraw what he has initiated through the State Audit Office. Viktor Orbán must withdraw. Feel free to send him a message - if he doesn't dare argue with me, because he's afraid of this debate [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] - to take back this state audit action, because it's gonna be better for you, believe me. You did not count on one thing, honourable Members: you did not count on Hungarian society, the Hungarian people. Even though the galleon is above and below the tide of water, the water is the master! - do we not remember that quote, ladies and gentlemen? Don't forget that. Orbán dreamed of the year of rebellion in 2017 and will be somewhere in Europe; well, here is the situation: the year of rebellion will be in 2018, it will be in Hungary and it will sweep you away. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-11-20	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, again. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let's start with, say, corruption, you mentioned that. You are raising the issue of corruption at a time when you are involved in an extremely ugly corruption scandal. Because the worst form of corruption is to buy a party into a zigzag. And that's what happened with Jobbik in the case of the posters. What we can tell you is that the laws must be followed by everyone. [[A statement from Jobbik: The law must be enforced!]] You've been entangled with an oligarch, and you're so dizzy by this maneuver that you didn't follow the law. That's the story, and that's it. And we have our opinion that these voters will beg for money to pay for it. The left did this before 2010: the country was almost damaged and the damage was to be paid by Hungarian citizens. Just to see how messed up they are: their spokesperson said earlier that he would put down the oath - he used that term - to pay a market price for the posters. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's right!]] And after that, you'll go to a forum in Pécs, and you'll just tell me that Lajos Simicska gave posters below market prices. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's not what he said!]] You said it yourself! One day they say it's all about bank credit, and then they say it's not about bank credit, so they don't bother to agree what they're lying about. [[A statement from Jobbik: You're lying right now!]] Every day, so many lies. Why do people look like birds, you tell me! [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: You!]] Then let me also tell you that we are listening to you here week after week, and we are eager to hear you say something a little different from any left party. But this moment is not coming, and there is a reason for this: you, Mr Party President, last summer - I believe it was last summer - said that you sold the party's soul. [[Ádám Mir. Kócsóczki: Quote precisely!]] Now, this is Jobbik's real commitment, and the thing is, you and your fellow parties are systematically performing this program. From a right-wing party, you've turned a derailed party, a party that can do anything but get some power. And under these circumstances, while your Guard's vest hadn't so long been watched by a lion, you now have a kitten on your back in the spirit of a sham campaign of cuteness. No kidding, there really was a cat out there a couple of days ago. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Wow! Grumble in the benches of Jobbik.]] So, the thing is, you switched national colors to cat pictures, you turned a national party into a pair of two-tailed kittens. That's the thing. There are many examples of their identity crisis: while previously burning EU flags, they would now leave the wages of the Hungarians to Brussels officials; they used to call it treason if someone did not vote for the anti-quota constitutional amendment and then did not vote for it. By the way, I think that's when you guys went downhill. And those who voted for you in 2014 certainly did not ask for this. So if you listen a little bit, you'll hear more and more noise in the back of the Jobbik. If anyone has anything to fear, it's you, the better voter's anger. But there is a much more talkative event in the core organizational riots from the last few days: the hero Gergely Pongrátz's brother Pongráz called on you to remove Gergely Pongráz's photo from his office, because he became unworthy of linking himself to the memory of the heroes of 56. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Adam Mirkóczki: You wrote the article! Applause from the pro-government benches.]] The fact is that we cannot argue with this, and we agree with that, we would actually add only one suggestion: if you took Gergely Pongráz's picture off the wall, then do not do half-work, put Jobbik's current spiritual and financial sponsors on the wall: hang the portrait of Henrik Havas, Ágnes Heller and Lajos Simicska. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] They might even fit a picture of a cat next to it. Because the thing is, this gallery would best show you where the Jobbik is now after a long period of soul sale: it doesn't go anywhere, because it doesn't go anywhere, because it doesn't believe in anything anymore. It's not good to watch this. Thank you for listening. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right! A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-11-22	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2017-12-11-23	Dear Parliament, The speaker, Félix Farkas, spoke after the agenda today; Zsolt Egyed, Jobbik; László Varga, MSZP; Nándor Gúr, MSZP; György László Lukács, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik. On the day before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Ákos Hadházy, LMP; Zsolt Németh, Fidesz; Mátyás Firtl, KDNP; János Volner, Jobbik. Bence Tuzson, Fidesz; Erika Kissné Köles spokesperson; Mónika Bartos, Fidesz; Nándor Gúr, MSZP; Zoltán Készés independent; Félix Farkas spokesperson; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; István Szávay, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Ikotity István, LMP; László Varga, MSZP.
u2017-12-11-24	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. First, we decide on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. In derogation from the house rules, the House Committee initiates that the National Assembly is T/18783 on the spatial planning plan for Hungary and certain priority regions. In the course of the hearing of the bill No 41, it departs from the house rules of the resolution so that the amendment to the bill is proposed in accordance with Rule 41 of the House Rules. Without prejudice to the time limit laid down in paragraph 1 of Section 1 of this Article, on Friday 19 January 2018, you may submit by 2 p.m. [[12.00]] This proposal is T/18783/2. You can read it on the website. Dear Parliament, So I ask the House if it will contribute to the departure from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Parliament has adopted the proposal by 142 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. Member Gergely Gulyás initiated by submitting the necessary number of supporting signatures to discuss in exceptional proceedings the resolution of the European Parliament on the implementation of the Soros Plan, entitled H/18817. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. MEPs are calling for amendments to be submitted today until the third hour after the decision on the exceptional procedure has been taken, for a consolidated debate and for a decision on the summary amendment proposal and for a final vote to take place on Tuesday's meeting. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, i.e. one hundred Members, to order an exceptional procedure. Now it's time for the decision. I'm asking you if H/18817 is accepted. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The decision on the exceptional procedure was taken by the Parliament by 111 votes in favour, 17 against and without abstentions. Dear House, The amendment proposals can be submitted for 15 hours and 3 minutes. The Government initiates an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the necessary legislative amendments to inform the beneficiaries of certain benefits and benefits provided by the State, as well as the 1992 LXVI on the registration of citizens' personal data and address. T/18824. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government initiates: today it is possible to submit amendments until the third hour after the decision on the exceptional procedure is taken, the consolidated debate and the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on Tuesday's meeting. I ask you if T/18824. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the motion was adopted by the House by 111 votes to 17, with no abstentions. In accordance with our decision, amendments can be submitted for 15 hours or 3 minutes today. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the amendments to the agenda. The Fidesz Group has proposed that H/18817 on the European Parliament's decision to implement the Soros Plan The joint debate of the resolution proposal shall take place on Tuesday, following the speeches before the agenda. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group also proposed that the LXVI of 1992 on the necessary legislative amendments to inform the beneficiaries of certain benefits and benefits provided by the State and on the registration of citizens' personal data and address. T/18824. H/18817. Following a consolidated debate on the proposal for a decision. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority has also accepted this proposal. The Fidesz Group has proposed that decisions be taken on Tuesday's meeting at the earliest from 12:00. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that this proposal has also been accepted by the visible majority of the Parliament. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear House, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Now, at 12:6 p.m., we're moving to interpellation, immediate questions and questions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, as the Speaker of Parliament, the House Rules of Decision 121. K/18597, K/18598, K/18599, K/18600., K/18601, K/188602. and K/18603. I rejected the written questions submitted to the Minister of National Economy in figures, as the motions do not fall within the remit of the Government. Dear House, László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Health without any change in substance? It's an address. Mr László Csakács has the floor.
u2017-12-11-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Six months ago, they were shocked that only a fraction of the wage increase planned for this year was given to the paramedics, and then, as a result, there were quite a lot of resignations. Then a few days ago, the next cold shower came. You promised a minimum of 12 percent wage increase by November this year, and then it turns out - we've seen a lot of payroll, we've seen a lot of wage statements - that just those who needed it the most, who were earning under the guaranteed minimum wage, they didn't give you anything, they're taking back exactly as much every month as they've done before. What happened to them? Their basic wage had to be supplemented by the amount, a supplement, which raised it to the guaranteed minimum wage, and now their basic wage has increased, so the premiums that would have increased their wages to the guaranteed minimum wage have decreased. This is a game with numbers, Mr. Secretary, playing with people's lives, playing with people's incomes, and, of course, playing with health. And you're gonna tell me again that this is a press duck. Just then, please go and talk to those surgeons, those nurses, talk to the people who are doing their job at the guaranteed minimum of wages every day, talk to them, and tell them why their lives have been better, earning exactly the same amount for penny-forints, not even for a little, and very, very, very sacrificeful job. I would like to point out once again, Mr Secretary, that it is precisely those who need it the most, they are looking for the least in health care. They may have to see in this perspective, to have a prospect in life, for them, for their families, they might have had to raise even more. But the fact that a penny of this does not appear is entirely unacceptable; not only for us, János Lázár, said not so long ago in government information that it is not feasible to maintain the system without real, visible, tangible health wage development, without health improvement. They can't tell us why those people have to work there, why they shouldn't go abroad, because the stakes will be no less, more will go abroad. And please, the Secretary of State, that now in his reply, which we can slowly write for ourselves, there will be in it for the past eight years. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] he already tells me what might have been said in 2009, but since then, you have been ruling for eight years, you should govern responsibly, so I ask the Secretary of State to address these issues. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm going to ask you to answer these questions directly, how you intend to guarantee...
u2017-12-11-26	Congressman...
u2017-12-11-27	...the real wage increase...
u2017-12-11-28	Congressman, you had three minutes, you forgot to ask the questions. Now we're at three minutes and 14 seconds.
u2017-12-11-29	I have one question, Mr. President...
u2017-12-11-30	Here you go.
u2017-12-11-31	Thank you very much. How do you plan to guarantee a real wage increase for the 15-16 thousand health workers mentioned earlier? Thank you for your attention. [[12.10]]
u2017-12-11-32	Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If it hits the 95,000 health workers as a cold shower, it is when the socialists start talking about health care, because everyone very well noted - because this was not a very good example in Hungary, Hungary - which was the party in Hungary, which reduced the wages of healthcare workers, who took a month's wages from everyone who reduced the wages and annual income of all health workers by 8 percent. This was the Hungarian Socialist Party, because they were instructed from Brussels, the IMF and elsewhere to reduce the wages of nurses and doctors working in health care, and you did so immediately, immediately, at the first word; besides that, they wanted to introduce a visitation fee, which we can all remember. But some were even worse off because they had been instructed and immediately executed to release people from health care so that 6,000 medical workers were dismissed. The person who kept his job has lost his salary, and thousands of people from health care are on the street. The situation is quite different now, because we are debating, honourable Member, that there are different wage increases in Hungary in the public sector and, of course, also in the private sector, the minimum wage and the minimum wage for skilled workers are rising radically; it is rising to the extent that you have not even formulated a rise in opposition at the level of the proposal. These rising wages are also comparable to each other, and there is a kind of wage increase competition, while remembering the policy of austerity earlier, the socialist period, when we reported cuts. Therefore, doctors, as is known, increased their basic wages by HUF 107,000 last year, and this year by another HUF 100,000, and by 26,5 percent last year, by 17 percent this year, by another 8 percent next year and by another 8 percent next year by another 8 percent. Just as you say, because there are healthcare workers with low wages, they have not only increased income on 1 November, but also when the radical minimum wage increase and the radical minimum wage increase were made, in Hungarian on 1 January. So there are healthcare workers, less earning health workers, who may also have their wages increased on 1 January this year and are also rising on 1 January next year, some of which are also rising on 1 November, but some are not. This is how one should look at the fact that a low-income person has already risen on 1 January and is likely to rise on 1 January next year; obviously, this is a different case. How to better separate different slid-up pay groups within the pay table itself, and how, of course, negotiations with trade unions are taking place. If you look at this year's budget, which you have not supported, you will see that from the HUF 171 billion that we spend as a surplus on health care, HUF 82 billion will be added to the salary increase for healthcare workers. We can now provide them with HUF 82 billion more than we have in previous years, and it is indeed the bedside workers who can reach the highest rise. If you look at the salary of a worker working for about 20 years, his basic salary was 106 thousand forints, and his salary was on average 172 thousand; the earnings were higher because there were various overwork and other mobile components. Instead of the basic salary of HUF 106 thousand, it now earns HUF 226 thousand, while the earnings of HUF 172 thousand will rise to HUF 340 thousand by the end of 2018. And for a specialist, the basic salary of HUF 156 thousand will rise to HUF 469,000, and for a HUF 280,000 salary will increase to HUF 796,000. Even in the case of a paramedic you mentioned, the gross average wage is 314,000 forints. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] This year it will rise to HUF 569,000. The surplus of HUF 82 billion is also shown here in concrete figures. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-34	I will give the floor to the congressman once again for a return answer. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-35	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, So for the record, you raised on 1 January, raised 26.5 percent before, and still under the guaranteed minimum wage, people who still need to complete their wages after the current 12 percent increase to bring home the guaranteed minimum wage, 161,000 forints. You're proud of that. By the way, you didn't disappoint me, you said your 2009 speech again, you're past eight years old, and the rest you already know how you think. Mr. Secretary, don't be proud of that. If you've already had to raise by 26 percent, and you've raised by 12 percent and one more, and that's still less, then the policy you're doing is unacceptable, so don't expect any change. A Slovak novice doctor earns three times as much as a Hungarian novice doctor. You're supposed to be answering these questions, not talking about the top ten percent. I don't accept the answer.
u2017-12-11-36	I ask the House whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 108 votes to 24, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, a representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. While the Government tries with all its might to keep citizens from leaving the country with their address, while voting on our ripped areas in the name of the dead? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2017-12-11-37	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Since the establishment of Jobbik, he has been committed to the citizenship and voting rights of foreign Hungarians. When there was a referendum on this in 2004, we supported, built, signed, personally and my family, but most of them no longer remember that the referendum was initially not supported by Fidesz, and did not help to collect signatures from the World Federation of Hungarians. With regard to the electoral rights of Hungarians abroad, the government should have solved at least two serious problems in this cycle, both of which were discussed several times, but there was no solution for both. One of these serious problems is that in the event of the death of a voter with no address in Hungary entered in the register, typically living in our separated areas, the relative must ask for the removal from the register. If, for some reason, this is cancelled, the National Election Office will send him the current voting package for up to ten years, as his registration is valid until then. In extreme cases, then, one may register in 2014, die in 2015, but even in the 2022 elections, his family can send back his letter vote, or anyone else on his behalf who obtains this package, so his registration will be extended for another ten years, until 2032 when he has been dead for 17 years. Obviously, this is not for nothing, this system is favourable to Fidesz, and this system can give wide scope to the possibility of electoral fraud. We have no doubt that if Fidesz has the opportunity to do so, then you will no longer be deterred from doing so in order to maintain your power and fear of being held accountable. Another serious problem is that, despite your promise at the Hungarian Permanent Conference, you have done nothing to facilitate the vote of Hungarian citizens with a Hungarian address, but most of which are forced to work abroad. The fact is that while you can vote in a Hungarian letter in Szeklerland, which lives together in a sublet in Scotland, your partner in Hungary can only vote if you take the day off, travel 600-700 kilometers, bear the cost, and finally stand the mile line at the London embassy. Obviously, few are willing to do so, and this is clearly seen from the previous electoral attendance data. This could also be the solution of Jobbik's old proposal, the possibility of electronic voting. In this regard, I think I have three questions for the Secretary of State. Why hasn't the government done anything worthwhile so far to prevent people who have died from using their letter votes? Why hasn't the government done anything worthwhile so far in order, as promised at the Hungarian Permanent Conference, and as the Hungarian organizations from abroad unanimously requested, to facilitate the vote for Hungarian citizens with a Hungarian address but working abroad? Finally, why does the government finally refuse to cross the 21st century? to a century and to create the possibility of electronic voting? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-11-38	Mr. Secretary of State Pál Völner has the floor.
u2017-12-11-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I wouldn't recommend that Jobbik collect the votes of dead souls. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You collect!]] Because it's an election fraud, and it's regulated in the Criminal Code. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: This is about you!]] The other is that in spring 2017, the press also reported that the parties of the government had come up with the possibility of amending the electoral procedural law. In fact, it was you who were not constructive in these discussions, of course, along with the left-wing parties, that is why the proposal which would have resolved the technical issues could not be brought before the House. The other one. The fact that the current regulation fully complies with all European standards is confirmed by the decision of the Constitutional Court, as well as by the examination of the Venice Commission that Hungarian legislation is appropriate. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in many European countries there is no institution for voting in a letter, so what you see here as a tragedy is that Hungarians working abroad do not have this; on the one hand, they can set up a home address there, and in this case they can vote in a similar way if they switch to it. [[12.20]] The other example mentioned in Edinborough, the activity of the Hungarian state is characterised by the opening of a consulate in Edinborough, so this example is certainly not good, so they can vote there either way. The other is that this part does not involve harm, because I tell you, either at home or at foreign representations, there is a way to vote. And when it came to the activity of foreign Hungarians and the referendum in 2004, I would like to mention a recent case when Gábor Vona's godson, one of Jobbik's inner men, Zoltán Szatyori-Lázár If I quote your name correctly, Szolnok president of your organization, he said: "The majority of Transylvanian Hungarians, like North American Indians, can be bought with a handful of glass beads. This handful of glass beads was dual citizenship. I'm beginning to think, as bitter as it is to say, that they didn't deserve dual citizenship. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] The President of Szolnok continued that in his rounds he was even more prone to stupidity than in Hungary. This is what one of the leaders of Jobbik's position is about Hungarians across the border, which Jobbik said was a repairable error. Have we been able to correct the error since then? Has the godfather gone? When are you planning to replace the man who talks about Hungarians across the border like that? [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] But we can also talk about Gábor Vona, who did not attend the meeting of the Hungarian Permanent Conference quoted by you last December, even though the left-wing parties represented themselves on a presidential level. But even more serious is that your party president didn't vote for dual citizenship, because he didn't take the trouble and he wasn't in the room. In both cases, he had something better to do. It is very interesting, therefore, when you come up with such questions and virtually completely turn your back on these matters, look down on Hungarians across the border, want to create tensions between Hungarian citizens and voters, but at every step of your activities, it is understandable that they are hindering the establishment of a regulation that would, in practice, deal with disputes on a technical and technical basis. They belong to the same camp as the ones on your left who are on the farm, or actually on the other side who are sitting, they're in a camp. The only thing that drives you is the government's hatred, and they don't want to do anything about it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-40	Once again, I give the floor to Congressman Savay. Here you go. [[Noise, interruptions.]]
u2017-12-11-41	One short reaction: on the one hand, he did not respond to the electronic vote and the other, that he lied on at least two issues. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Zen at the meeting you called... [[Uproar, interrogation from the ruling parties.]] No shame, I'll tell you one more time: you're lying, Mr. Secretary. [[Uproar, interrogation from the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm telling you, he's lying - I'll tell you the third time. This meeting, which you called back then, concerned only one thing, so that Hungarians across the border could vote even more easily. There was no mention of creating the possibility of voting a letter, and we did not support it, which was the condition for us to participate in the discussion on the electoral procedural law - one of them. As regards the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court stated that the legislator could introduce legislation that would allow all voters abroad on the day of the vote to vote, regardless of their permanent residence, to vote in a letter. This was also stated by the Constitutional Court, Mr Secretary of State, and it is not the tragedy that foreigners or foreigners do not have the option of voting letters, but that this law is discriminatory, making a distinction [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and those who vote for you in large numbers across borders have this opportunity and those who migrate abroad do not. I don't accept the answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-11-42	I ask the House whether it accepts the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 107 votes to 18, with one abstention. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that they will only have to endure a few more hours of the plenary trial this year, so please collect the rest of your patience. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a wallet for the design, construction and commissioning of two new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant:, Paks II - corruption of the century? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2017-12-11-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, If the Orbán government wanted to justify all the concerns of the opponents of the Paks expansion project already in preparation, they could not do it more perfectly. Minister Süli's predecessor, János Lázár, called the planned expansion the most transparent investment in the Hungarian state - even the long-lost Hungarian taxpayers are not used to such impertinence. The truth is, you have encrypted all the relevant data of the project, and the most basic financial information can only be obtained at the cost of litigation. If, on the other hand, someone digs through the artificial obstacles you've set up, they'll run into the name of the same Oligarchs near Fidesz, Paks II. around the world, who also routinely invest in public wealth through other public investments. It is clear that the Orbán government is treating the Paks expansion, which has only begun financially, as a political paying place. The company of Lőrinc Mészáros, which achieved HUF 100 billion in private wealth growth through government orders over a year, has recently been commissioned to expand one of the nuclear waste storage facilities as part of a group of companies related to Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, István Tiborcz. The media interests of Gábor Orbán-Hózség also won a lot, with a total value of approximately HUF 100 million. A similar amount was allocated to the companies of Csaba Csetényi, neighbor of Antal Rogán, Minister of Propaganda. Another Mészáros company, Mediaworks, has received tens of millions of orders, the same as the interests of Democratic András Bencsik. This is how we do business in the Orbán system: public money becomes a private benefit, in the public interest some Orbán friends and family members become private interests, and the increasingly pepperier bill is paid by Hungarian taxpayers, from whom you collect one million forints per family in order to achieve the Paks fever dream. Please inform the specifics of the measures you intend to take in the future to prevent the non-viable, loss-making Paks expansion project from being the gold mine of the Luck Riders associated with Fidesz and the darkest corruption case of the century. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-12-11-44	I give the floor to Secretary of State Attila Aszódi. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Definitely the Paks II project is the investment of the century. Its importance is enormous, as it serves the security of our energy supply, the cheap, climate-friendly electricity supply, until the end of the century. This is very necessary in a country which is extremely exposed to fixed-line import energy, and imports, especially fixed-line imports, are particularly vulnerable. The new blocks of the nuclear power plant can guarantee by the end of the century that we can produce a significant part of the electricity within the country, about 40 percent. This can ensure that the power supply from the core power station is ensured from within the country, and I would like to emphasise once again that we can do this in line with our climate protection objectives and that this electricity will be available cheaply. This low-cost electricity is important for both the population and industry, as economic development is only possible if the electricity needed for the developed industries is available cheaply day and night in winter and summer. The energy policy you claim is not the way you want to go. It would increase the import of lead energy, which would serve the country better, and otherwise promote a power plant programme that could lead to plant investments outside the country, which is clearly not in the interest of Hungary, Hungarian workers and Hungarian industry. That is why I say once again that Paks II investment is indeed an investment of the century, it is of extraordinary importance, and we will definitely make it happen. The fact that this is economically rational shows that the Commission's examination shows that the Commission's analysis shows that this investment will yield 7,35 percent annually, a good investment for the owner, the Hungarian State. In addition, the European Commission has also stated that this investment serves pan-European interests, increasing pan-European values. [[12.30]] There will be a great deal of work to be done in carrying out the investment. About 7,000 people will be working at peak hours at the site and about 3,000 businesses can be involved in the implementation. This is a huge, outstanding project. The selection of these subcontractors, the companies involved in the project, will be carried out in an absolute transparent manner according to equal opportunities. This procurement procedure will be checked not only by the Hungarian authorities, but also by the European Commission, as the European Commission, following its examination, asked the Hungarian party to report on the procurement process regularly. These procedures - so once again, the Hungarian procedures and the continuous monitoring of the European Commission - guarantee that the involvement of subcontractors and suppliers will comply with Hungarian and European rules. I note that not only trade, not only legal, but also nuclear safety rules and quality assurance rules must be respected in this process, given the fact that these companies will be involved in the implementation of a nuclear installation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-11-46	I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2017-12-11-47	I don't accept the answer. The Secretary of State said that this is the biggest deal of the century - we will not argue with you about that. It is indeed the biggest business of the century, but for Hungary it is the worst business of the century and the best business for Russia. We ask again and again why you have signed the worst deal of the century with Russia. We suspect two reasons or two reasons. One: Putin is holding Hungary in check for some reason, because otherwise we would not have signed a loan agreement with a very high interest rate on the market. The other reason is why they signed: it is obviously also linked to knowing that there will be no such high EU funding after 2020. And we need big projects so that the background of Fidesz can be funded from something to make public money more private. The Paks Business [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the worst business of Hungarian taxpayers.
u2017-12-11-48	I ask this House whether the Secretary of State's reply will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The replies were accepted by 108 votes in favour, 17 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Erik Bánki, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. What is the result of the increase in investments experienced this year? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2017-12-11-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, A total investment of HUF 4144 billion was made in Hungary more than ever in the first three quarters of the year, corresponding to a 22.6 percent increase compared to the same period last year. Of this volume, total investment of nearly HUF 1600 billion was made in the last quarter, i.e. in the third quarter, which clearly shows an increasing trend within the already significant expansion. The fact that investments are growing in a healthy structure is also welcome for economic policy workers. Out of the 19 economic sectors listed by the HCSO, a dynamic increase was recorded compared to the same period of the previous year. Thus, the opinion expressed by opposition politicians and their experts that Hungarian GDP is determined by the performance of one or two large companies is far from true. In fact, the data just mentioned show that almost all sectors of the economy, all economic operators, experienced an increase in 2017. There are many reasons for this expansion. This is the recovery of the work on projects funded by the EU budget cycle 2014-2020, but we could mention the increase in manufacturing capacity, the development of electronics and automotive companies, and, of course, outstanding performance gains in the construction sector so far in 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, So we can safely say that Hungary and Hungary's economies are performing better. Thanks to the performance of the economy, we have been able to create more than 720 thousand new jobs over the last seven years; we have achieved full employment in Hungary in practically seven years; in the last year the Hungarian economy has produced an average wage increase of more than 14 per cent. And let us not forget the 100% increase in the minimum wage of the profession, or that, for example, the performance of the economy has contributed to the reduction of the level of corporate tax from 19 to 9 percent in Hungary, which is also the most favourable category in European comparison. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, apart from the opposition, everyone is already recognising the economic policy efforts and the results that the Hungarian government has made over the last seven years with the help of Hungarian people. Perhaps it is not a coincidence that the credit rating agencies without exception improved Hungary's tax classification and that we were able to repay the IMF loan. Dear Secretary of State, So I ask you why the outstanding investment figures of the third quarter have improved Hungary's ability to attract capital. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-11-50	I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary.
u2017-12-11-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In recent years, the government has taken a number of measures to ensure that the Hungarian economy is on a long-term growth path. As investment and the right workforce are an important basis for growth, it is clear that government measures have also focused on encouraging these over the past period. In addition to infrastructural and institutional developments in the public sector, it is necessary to highlight, in terms of incentives for investment, the amounts that can be used for economic development from new EU funds, as well as the subsidies that can be used within the framework of the home creation programme; but last but not least, the company tax rate reduced to the 9 per cent mentioned by you, which is indeed the lowest in Europe. The success of the measures taken, as you have said, is clearly justified by the positive growth figures. In the third quarter, the Hungarian economy grew by 3.9 percent, which exceeds the European Union average in an annual comparison. This GDP growth has been dynamically and significantly contributed to an increase in the investment record of almost 22.6 percent. The development worth more than HUF 4100 billion, mentioned by you, was completed in the first three quarters of our country. This amount is also a record amount for available comparisons since 1995. The number of upswings in the growth of investments is very strong: construction projects increased by 24 percent, and machinery investments increased by 21 percent. The development in the manufacturing industry was also significant, since 16 percent is an indicator of this sector. In addition, real estate investments increased significantly by around 14 percent, not to mention housing, which shows an increase of 52 percent compared to last year. Public sector development also dominates the outstanding activity of investment, as projects in public administration, education and health have increased the investment growth rate by 53 percent. Looking ahead, dynamic investment growth will continue in the coming period, which will occur both in the private and public sectors. It is expected that the home creation programme will run up and investment will continue to grow. The already mentioned 9 percent corporate tax rate attracts investments in our country, our ability to attract capital has increased by so much that we may not even be able to calculate now, because the impact of the adopted decision actually takes a few years to really measure our country's ability to attract capital. I think that the outstanding investment performance of the last three quarters of the year is certainly a basis for confidence. The outstanding expansion of investment in almost all sectors will not only be true for this year, but also for the coming years, so it will be confirmed in the medium term that our country is positive [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] economic prospects. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] [[12.40]]
u2017-12-11-52	Once again, I give the floor to Member Erik Bánki.
u2017-12-11-53	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your reply and thank you for highlighting the steps that the Hungarian Government has taken so far with the support of the Fidesz and KDNP fractions of the Hungarian Parliament. It is a special pleasure for me that, in the next period, the government will not change the economic policy that has brought the results so far, the successes so far. We are all aware that there is a killing struggle in the market for working capital subsidies, with capital raisings in which Hungary has been at the forefront in recent years, and in which we can say that two of the Visegrád countries are fighting with Poland in the first and second place, so that we have achieved that the performance of the Hungarian economy is predictable, stable, and that the growth path that has been achieved by the economic policy instruments that have been implemented since 2010 has not changed, so thank you for your reassuring response. On behalf of all of us, I wish you further successful and effective work. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-54	Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: We want a fair Hungary for millions of people living from work and wages! It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2017-12-11-55	Ladies and gentlemen, In Hungary today there is injustice. Fidesz has torn the country apart, brought peacelessness, brought peacelessness, and inequality has increased dramatically. Yeah, she's grown dramatically. He who was poor became even poorer. The vulnerability has increased, and the minions of the governing party, the pals, the pereputty, of course, they're hitting on you, that's fine. The Hungarian Socialist Party wants and will build a country [[Dr. István Vitányi: What did you build in eight years?]] to which solidarity, humanity and assistance will be tangible. [[Sándor Font: We already know that.]] Work will make a living, unlike in your period, where, as an example, public workers are still given less money net than 7-8 years ago, in 2010. Of course, in health care too, wages that do not mean a single penny to the employee net, because this money does not even reach the guaranteed minimum wage. Young people need to build a country where they do not want to leave the country where they can thrive. That's not what you did. Over 600,000 people have left this country. Older people should be given a decent pension, not the minimum pension of HUF 28 500 that has been unchanged for seven years. Women have to pay the same wage for the same work, and businesses have to be given the opportunity to succeed, not to hold them against the wall, because they can't even provide for their employees. This country needs to be caught up in particular with regard to wages to the European Union average. Justice must be born, one that takes less from people with lower incomes, and, let's say, more than one million forints can be expected. It cannot be a net in Hungary below 100,000 forints. The labour code should be amended for the sake of human safety, trade unions should be given the possibility of rights, unemployment benefits should be operated in such a way as to give rise to access to the primary labour market. And, as I said, public workers must also be assured to earn at least the minimum living amount per capita. Of course, women and pensioners should not be forgotten. Why have they not changed the situation so as not to increase vulnerability but to reduce it over the last seven years? Why didn't they change the labor code for safety? And why have they not strengthened the solidarity that is needed in this country? Thank you very much.
u2017-12-11-56	I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Listening to you, there is always a question of where the MSZP fair Hungary was, when nearly half a million people were unemployed in 2010, or where the MSZP fair country was, when 741 thousand people worked in 2010 and before, and where was the just Hungary during your administration, when a month's pension and a month's wages were taken from civil servants and pensioners. In contrast, Hungary's current government, unlike you and previous government policies, has committed itself to creating a work-based society, and has formulated a work-based principle instead of a "aid." Economic growth creates more and more job opportunities, including middle and senior management jobs, for example for women with a degree. The number of women in the intellectual profession has increased by 100,000 since 2013, including a 7.5 percent increase in the number of women in the leading position. In contrast to socialist governance before 2010, we have really done a lot in cooperation with the social partners to improve the situation of workers. The average real value of wages is now 36 percent higher than in 2010 with family tax incentives, which serve the EU's wage catch-up to a maximum, while income differences, including gender pay differentials, are more moderate than most EU countries. Thanks to the six-year wage agreement, the minimum wage increases by 88 percent between 2010 and 2018, which is outstanding in relation to the European Union and the OECD. This, by the way, represents a more than 100 per cent increase in the minimum wage for skilled workers, the guaranteed minimum wage. The net amount of the minimum wage with no family discount will be nearly HUF 92 thousand in 2018, and if a child is raised, the net minimum wage will surely exceed HUF 100 thousand. It should be stressed that the government has paid particular attention to the interests of workers when drawing up the Labour Code, and therefore the labour law protection of workers is widely guaranteed by the Labour Code against your claims. The current legislation ensures a sufficient level of protection for the protection of workers' rights. In the world of work, the Fundamental Law sets out the protection of the right to organise in order to enforce collective autonomy. In line with this, the Labour Code regulates the guarantees on the right to organise. The employer is obliged to provide the trade unions with the basic conditions of operation and to refuse the collective bargaining offer. With this, therefore, the law provides for the regulation of labour law under a collective agreement. The current system of social dialogue allows for the participation of the social partners in decision-making. It also gives trade unions and employers' organisations the opportunity to play an active and institutional role in national policy-making processes. In view of the increasing demand for labour in the domestic competitive sector and the significant decline in labour supply, it is appropriate to maintain in the unemployment benefit system an effective, functioning support system that encourages unemployed people to become unemployed as soon as possible to enter or to be re-trained, which is constantly decreasing, and is shown in the process of statistical data. I ask you, Congressman, to accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-58	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2017-12-11-59	You guys have increased vulnerability over the last seven years while you and your buddies are hanging out. They drove the young, the active, the productive out of this country. They gave birth to a multitude of injustices, crippled millions. They exploit workers, put employers against the wall. The safety of workers is also being lost while harming the country. I'll give you an example: settlement policy. You know him, because he's an asset to the story. Instead of a real wage increase, in health care, they lie about raising wages in people's eyes. They use a multitude of lying statistics to show that employment is better, unemployment is not so bad, they use it to stun people. In terms of wages, the public employee is still earning 54 thousand forints against the amount exceeding 60,000 forints in 2010. The minimum wage was stolen for five years. What are you talking about? I don't accept the answer. [[12.50]]
u2017-12-11-60	I ask the House whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 101 votes to 17, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Tamás Pintér, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. The domestic steel production is in danger? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2017-12-11-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I admit that the title of my interpellation is somewhat strong, which is why, above all, I would like to reassure all iron workers that their jobs are safe, but the situation is very serious. The news has recently been released that at Dunaferr, the local member group of the Train Managers' Trade Union has once again established a strike committee. This is one of the smallest such units within the Danubeferr, but they are one of the very important gears of the system, and they seem to be in very serious trouble. Why is the group working there forced into a strike committee? In order to be able to transport the raw materials necessary for the production of steel in the internal railway network, 150 people are required. They have a hundred of them, so they need at least 50 people to meet their basic needs. They're gonna have to make up for this, so everyone's gonna have to take overtime. This means that tired, exhausted workers have to do a lot of extra work in addition to hard physical work. They have to work overtime with the majority over 50 years of age, so they also have an increased additional burden of physical fitness. The most terrible thing is that the salary of the workers in the store is below the salary of the store's loader, and even compared to the other ironworks, these hundred people do not increase their salary in the same proportion as their other employees. Dear Secretary of State, The union workers feel their responsibilities, which is why they decided to set up the strike committee. They know that if things continue like this, they cannot do their job properly, they cannot carry out the more and more difficult tasks imposed on them, and they also know that they are at risk of life under heavy stress. Dear Secretary of State, Although the smallest trade union unit is a local group of the Trade Union of Locomotive Leaders, the workers in it perform one of the most important tasks within the ironworks. Without them, Dunaferr stops, and Hungarian steel production is threatened. They know that, but they work overtime every day, and they work for the price of food, because they feel obligated to do so. Please don't take advantage of this. Jobbik and I are also doing everything at local level for hardworking ironsmiths, Hankookists, Hamburger Hungária employees, Ferrobetoners - just to mention the largest companies - and employees in the SME sector. But in addition to their material appreciation, their right to normal work is the most important thing for me, and finally their decent rest after the years they worked. I would therefore like to ask Mr Secretary of State what you will do for the rest of your time for the iron workers, what you intend to do about the shortage of professionals, and what you intend to do in the end to raise humiliatingly low wages. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-11-62	Once again, Mr. Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés has the floor.
u2017-12-11-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to remind you that during the period 1998-2002, under the then Fidesz government, decisions were taken that guaranteed that the ironworks would remain state-owned and that none of Dunaferr's employees would have to be dismissed. In 2004, however, the Socialist Government decided to privatise Dunaferr. After the poor economic processes caused the factory to lose money, the owners chose the direction of dismantling instead of the development, thus the number of employees decreased by approximately 400 between 2004 and 2010. However, since the beginning of its operation, the Fidesz government has been providing continuous assistance to Dunaferr to address employment problems due to previous loss-making operations. After ISD Dunaferr Zrt. In autumn 2013, he announced his intention to dismiss 890 employees, in December 2013, with the support of the Ministry of National Economy, OFA Nonprofit Kft. with the help of the new labour market programme, the beneficiary of which was the Steel Foundation for Dunaferr Employment. The Senior Sub-programme was also launched in 2016, with the aim of eliminating the staff reduction process that lasted almost five years at the Dunaferr Group. Thanks to the government's measures, ISD Dunaferr Zrt. has withdrawn its group reduction notification for all groups of companies. This is also a positive example of how, thanks to the good cooperation of the government, the management of companies and employees' interest organisations and local cooperation, Dunaferr can keep every employee who wants to work there. At the same time, new developments were boosted and a significant reorganisation programme was launched, resulting in a profitable group of companies in 2015. In addition to the development of the company, the government will continue to support the development of the Danube City economy by 2020. The aim is to become a modern industrial city in Dunaújváros, where civil quality of life can be achieved for people living here. In response to your proposals to raise wages, I reiterate that Dunaferr is currently in private hands, so the government does not have the right to intervene directly in the company's payroll system or in the wage disputes at work level. The Labour Code gives the government the authority to establish only the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, which, as you know, has been raised to an unprecedented extent in recent years, especially in the years 2017 and 2018, where an unprecedented percentage increase will occur and occur in terms of the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. As you know, the government does not explain and promises, but is truly committed and does everything in its power to ensure the further functioning of Dunaferr and to preserve the jobs of the workers working there. Thank you for your attention and for accepting my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-64	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2017-12-11-65	Thank you very much. Of course, I cannot accept Mr Secretary of State's reply, because if you have already talked about the past, I must say that at the local level in Dunaújváros, with the support of the local Fidesz, the iron-works bonds owned by the city were privatized - one of them. But I don't think you know what the government was supposed to do, because you were supposed to start negotiations with the ironworks, the unions, because you should have permanently stopped the redundancies and outsourcing, and you should have called for the transfer of the temporary staff to join the dunaferres. It may be possible to secure the future of the ironworks and those working there in the medium term with higher wages, but they should also have dealt with replacements in the longer term, such as the introduction of a scholarship system, the development of an incentive system for young and re-entry professionals, or the further development of high-school iron and construction higher education. That would have been the government's job, but you failed to do so, and Jobbik will do so after the change of government. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-11-66	I ask this House whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 104 votes to 27, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mátyás Firtl, a representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. How does the Government help pensioners? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2017-12-11-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Fidesz-KDNP government will do its best to improve significantly the situation of all social groups compared to 2010. The government does not distribute irresponsiblely, but supports social groups and layers that need it compared to the country's economic situation and achievements. That's the way it is with pensioners. We can be proud that in 2016, pensioners received a one-time pension supplement of HUF 10 000 in the form of a voucher for Elizabeth. With this gesture, the government would like to express its appreciation for the elderly, and thus would like to contribute to the festive preparation, shopping, so that they can spend the Advent period beautifully among their families. In 2017, the rate of economic growth is expected to be 4.1 percent, so the performance of the Hungarian economy will allow pensioners once again the one-off pension supplement of HUF 10 thousand. We would like the older generation and those receiving pensions to be appreciated. [[13.00]] They worked for decades to get the country back on its feet. With the 2017 allowances, we would also like to express our gratitude and contribute to the festive preparations. According to a ministerial announcement, every Hungarian pensioner in the Christmas season receives a gift of HUF 10 000 in the form of a voucher. Dear Secretary of State, Last year, for the first time, the Erzsébet vouchers were paid, which was made possible by today's stable financial situation and economic growth. It is our intention that, in addition to employees, pensioners also receive the results; we have fulfilled our commitment to preserve the value of pensions after retirement, and this year it will also be possible to pay a pension premium based on economic performance. We also want to return the sacrifice of the previous generations by paying the Elizabeth voucher. The vouchers, we hope, will be given to everyone involved during the Christmas preparations period, allowing Christmas preparation and promoting the spiritual tuning of the holiday. On the basis of the above, I ask Mr Secretary of State how pensioners receive the Elisabeth vouchers this year, and not least in what other way the government supports pensioners. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-68	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-12-11-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Everyone must respect the generation of our parents and grandparents who have built this country, who have a life's work to live today as we can, and have created the basis for a life that has been worked through, that today there can be economic growth in Hungary. That is why the government has decided that as a sign of respect, which can provide security to pensioners - and not pensioners - it will give and what economic growth will allow, and it will provide as a bonus. We have only reached the additional benefits in recent years, since in 2010 we had to guarantee and guarantee the security of the pension system. After all, it is important to remember that when the Bajnai government handed over its pension fund, it lacked HUF 357 billion. They missed HUF 357 billion, of which they admitted 200 billion here in Parliament, but in fact it was almost twice as much. And this happened after a month's pension was taken from all Hungarian pensioners. After that, the balance of the pension fund had to be restored. This has made the payment of pensions safe. But we also know other opposition parties, Jobbik, whose president doesn't speak with much respect about pensioners. This is how he wrote about some pensioners on his Facebook to pull behind their little shopping carts, and their eyes are filled with hate, and their mouths are drained of sewage. That's the respect the Jobbik feels for some of the pensioners. I think that if they came to government, it would be a very difficult time for Hungarian pensioners. However, Fidesz-KDNP has decided that, in addition to respect, economic growth should also appear in the incomes of pensioners. For this reason, we have not only maintained the purchasing value of the pension with the 23.5 percent increase, but there has also been a nearly 10 percent increase in purchasing value in pensions. We have set up a system with which pensioners can only benefit, because if the rate of pension increases, calculated on the basis of planned inflation, is higher than actual inflation, the difference will be retained, and if lower, it will be added to ensure that the value of pensions is preserved. Therefore, the nearly 10 percent increase, and therefore the pension correction that all Hungarian pensioners could have received retroactively by 1 January, could mean an amount of HUF 10 thousand. At the same time, the pension premium has been paid, and there has never been an example in Hungary to pay a pension premium to pensioners. This is the result of the fact that the Hungarian government now has an economic policy that also provides cover for the pension premium. Let us not forget that no bill to underpin this economic growth has been supported by the current opposition. If their votes had been decided, Hungary would not have been able to pay the pension premium to the elderly; if it had been up to them, perhaps not even the value of pensions, let alone the value of the pension premium. Next year, pensions will increase by 3 percent. If you compare the percentage of your salary and the EU average if you retire in Hungary, you can see that you receive almost 70 percent of your salary in your pension above the 58 percent average in the EU countries. It is also important that more than half of the 2.7 million pensioners have already received these Erzsébet vouchers on an ongoing basis. But before the holiday we try to deliver to everyone with the help of Magyar Posta. About HUF 30 billion in surplus is what we can provide to pensioners. The Women's Programme 40 is also helping older people, and it was also a parliamentary vote where none of the parties to the parliamentary opposition supported pensioners. The job protection action plan helps seven out of ten workers over 55 years of age to maintain their jobs, 340 thousand people, so that their future pension can be of higher value. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-70	Once again, I give the floor to Congressman Firtl. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-71	Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, The urge to present this interpellation is that I usually travel by train, and when you sit alone on a train in a cab, I have experienced this, and you open the door to the cab, and an older, beautiful woman tells you that you are the Member, then I say yes, and you expect to ask questions for some reason that are not the most pleasant; well, I have been told that we should thank you very much for what you are doing in Hungary. And as a pensioner, he thanked me for what the Hungarian government has done in recent years. Indeed, the only answer I could give at the moment was that we were able to fulfill what we had promised, and on the other hand that we were not interested in the division between generations, but that we were also interested in meeting these issues in the coming time. I would like to ask, last of all, the Secretary of State and the Government to do everything in the future to achieve this. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-72	Dear Parliament, Zsuzsanna Szelényi, an independent representative, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:, What has the government achieved in the past four years on the prevention of violence against women and relationships? It's an address. The interpellation will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources with responsibility and competence according to the subject. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-12-11-73	Dear fellow Members, Imagine you're in a safe house, surrounded by 10 women with 15 children who have fled their homes, their families, the place that's the most important place in their lives, which is the foundation of our community, which, if it's safe and sound, will provide us all with security. It's hard to put into words what an experience is like. I have three kids, I have a family where I'm safe, and I have a home to go home to. The lives of those who cannot do this are a drama, the lives of children whose parents, whose father is constantly abusing their mother, a tragedy. In an environment like this, you just can't grow up okay. Such a family, which is most important to all of us, cannot serve the security and strength that creates our community and, by the way, we can build a good country. When we find ourselves in such a situation, and we know that this is a widespread phenomenon, there are now about 50 to 100 women and children in Hungary who have the opportunity to enter such a safe house, but there are thousands of people who need it today. And there are 300,000 people who need a phone where someone gives them psychological, social, legal advice on how to protect their families and the safety of their homes. It's such a moral duty, a political task that we simply cannot hide our faces from. We are all in this room to ensure that these families, these essential sites, serve the basis on which we can build a peaceful, peaceful and safe future. I am therefore asking Prime Minister what results have been made in the campaigns that the government has made in recent years against domestic violence. How has public thinking changed in Hungary? What are your results against the victim error? How many of you have attended, how many kindergarten teachers, teachers, counselors, judges in professional trainings that have changed the course of the court? That's why the women in charge have a different attitude to a abused family? Which makes a kindergarten teacher recognize a child suffering from abuse? The Btk. How did what your government did change the common mood? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] How many families, how many women and how many children live in a much safer home and family today than four years ago? Thank you very much.
u2017-12-11-74	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2017-12-11-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Of course, the government rejects all forms of violence and seeks to help victims everywhere, even mostly to prevent them from becoming victims. You are here, honourable Member, talking about secret safe houses, saying that there are a few dozen people there, even though thousands of people should be able to do so. The secret safe houses were set up in the 1997 XXXI. included in the Child Protection and Child Welfare Act. We voted on the establishment of secret safe houses here in Parliament in 2015. At the time, you were a congressman. You were here, and you said now that we have a moral obligation to help secret shelters, we cannot hide our faces, it is the duty of all Members of Parliament to promote the real possibility of secret shelters. Then why didn't you vote for it, Congresswoman? [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] He was sitting here in Parliament, and now he's asking us why there are no more opportunities, but when you had the opportunity to support this bill here in Parliament, he didn't support it. However, we have tried regardless, because this is a serious and important social problem, not a party political issue, but we really have a responsibility to help everyone, and we are serious about this, not only at the level of words, but also at the level of the budgetary law, at the level of parliamentary votes, so we have taken several steps and have taken the form of actions. [[13.10]] The new Criminal Code, which was not supported by the opposition, now contains the facts of the violence in relations. The previous governments talked a lot about this, they would have had the opportunity to vote on it here in Parliament, to submit a proposal; they did not. Fidesz-KDNP created this possibility in the new Criminal Code, which entered into force on 1 July 2013. We have performed in many ways, and you have asked what results this has. If we look at victims' statistics on the number of female victims involved in violent crimes against the person, we can see that in 2010 there were 5124 female victims and in 2016 there were 3210 female victims. Obviously, we would like none, but we can say that this is a tangible positive trend, although we have plenty of work to do. How we help victims when they become victims and really need outside help: the 2016 Budget Act, which was not supported by the opposition, increased the operational support of crisis centres by 50 percent and, moreover, increased the support of secret shelters by 100 percent, doubled, although the opposition did not support it. At the end of 2016 we opened two new halfway houses and a new crisis center for those who are in a difficult situation, or for those who are trying to get out of this situation and need help to return to their daily lives. Today there are 15 crisis centers and 6 halfway houses in Hungary, 29 seats in the so-called secret safe house, the legal category of which you did not support. We can say that since 2010, the number of seats in Hungary has increased by one and a half times, and that this number can continue to grow and provide more help, I see that only the Fidesz-KDNP government is the guarantee. In 2016, crisis centers were able to receive 748 people, half-way exit houses received 52 people, secret shelters received 210 victims in total, including women, children and fathers. Next year, our plan is to open 5 new crisis centres in 2018, and we have created financial coverage for this, 5 new crisis clinics, which are formally new help and 11 halfway exit houses to start a new life; based on our already accepted applications - because we are spending the EU's money on the corruption of subway 4 - HUF 3 billion [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] e.g. the development of crisis management services, or the safe place or the protection net for families to prevent victimisation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-76	I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2017-12-11-77	Thank you very much for the floor. That's a tough question. Domestic violence against street violence or violence here [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It's not visible, and that's why it's really hard to stand up to him. So I understand the government is difficult; it would be difficult for everyone else. And I can see, by the way, the effort to do something about that is what the government is trying to do. However, compared to what could have been done in four years since you declared that you had signed the Istanbul Convention to combat violence against women, there are very few, unfortunately, what has happened. We don't know how many people have picked up your emergency lines, there are no results from the court, we don't know how many people are in the crisis centers. [[Németh Szilárd István: That's why it's secret!]] What you've been telling me, Mr. Secretary, is primarily [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the plan for the future. By the way, along with my encouragement and support for this matter, I cannot accept that answer. Thank you very much.
u2017-12-11-78	I ask the House whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 106 votes to 28, with 1 abstention. We now move on to immediate questions, Honourable Parliament. László Varga, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask an immediate question to the Minister without a wallet in charge of the development of county-righted cities:. What about the improvements promised to metropolitan cities? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr István Horváth Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much, you'll accept. Then I'll give you the floor.
u2017-12-11-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Obviously, I would have liked it if Lajos Kósa had responded in person, even because in the last three years there has been a very serious bang of promise in terms of county-righted cities, especially as part of the programme "Modern Cities" (Modern Cities). What could the mayors do, whether they were opposition or pro-government? Of course, they were happy, they agreed, even if, in fact, they only promised the people who lived there what would otherwise mean for the people of the European Union in terms of development and resources. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] However, only 10 percent of the promised HUF 3388 billion arrived at the cities, mainly from EU funds, until mid-September. Several projects are slipping across the country or are partially or wholly cancelled. The construction of M8, M6, previously concluded agreements are broken, changed, in the case of Érd, Székesfehérvár and Dunaújváros. As regards my constituency, the investments are in Miskolc, in fact there has not been a single cut in terms of bath development in Tapolca, the renovation and development of the reconstruction of the Castle of Diósgyőr started before 2010 and the continuation of the M30 is not progressing towards Košice, and even to hear that it is suffering a very significant delay in time, even though this was promised in 2018. Although not within the framework of this programme, they promised to develop the Tisza railway station and its surroundings, to build an intermodal hub, along with the related investments. Today, it seems that nothing will happen; we hear news that this investment is not going to happen. There's a lot of question marks in that regard. There is therefore a question, Minister Lajos Kósa without a wallet, you are his Secretary of State: what have you done in recent months to keep the promises [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the provision of resources, the acceleration of investments? I'm waiting for your answer, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-12-11-80	Thank you very much, Member, and welcome to my fellow Members. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State István Horváth. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-12-11-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, We thank you very much for your question, because the programme "Modern Cities" is one of the most important government developments, and I would like to inform the House that the preparations are going well as planned. I, as a practicing mayor, prefer to set a foundation stone or cut a ribbon, but it is important to know that many times the preparations take longer than the investment itself. This is also the case for the Modern Cities programme. The planned total investment is nearly HUF 3500 billion, of which 2100 billion are available for road development and 1400 billion for welfare and economic development. [[13.20]] What are these improvements again? For 23 cities with county rights, we coordinate the implementation and preparation of 260 projects. The biggest investment in infrastructure is 690 km of road, 137 km of rail development, and 20 cities are creating a new and expanding industrial park to help create jobs. We plan to build an intermodal transport hub in 11 cities, we modernise local public transport in 10 cities, we expand airports in 5 cities. In 8 cities there is significant local road development, and in 7 cities we provide resources for bicycle road construction. In addition to 15 urban rehabilitation and residential projects, we will support 5 cities with castle and historic renovations. In 6 cities there will be significant energy and utility development, in 13 cities we will implement economic innovation projects, 114 investments for cultural, tourism, health and sports purposes. The preparations for these are underway, but I'll be back in a minute. Thank you very much.
u2017-12-11-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr László Varga is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, This genre is a bit spontaneous, so it is worth answering the questions I have asked, I think. I am here in Parliament by the trust of the Miskolc and the inhabitants of five other settlements. As an individual representative of Miskolc, I can tell you that I like the investments made, and I don't see them in the last three years. I'm telling you in particular: I told you years ago that the fact that you are delaying the construction of the section bypassing downtown on Highway 3 and by the way, the Y-bridge around Tisza Station will not be built will lead to an impeccable intermodal node. Now I hear they don't want to build that either. So I wanted to draw attention to them constructively, and I see that they are not taken into account and are not answering questions. What I can tell you, Mr. Secretary, is that you shouldn't just have campaign promises, you shouldn't fool people living in cities with county rights, you shouldn't fool the Miskolcs. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-12-11-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask an immediate question [[István Horváth: One minute more!]] Mr. Prime Minister, I apologize, Mr. Secretary, I almost took the floor from you. [[Dr. László Varga: See if he has anything else to say.]] One more minute's rejoinder. [[Dr. László Varga: You may answer after all!]] Mr. Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-85	Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that we are primarily concerned with the interests of the people of Miskolc. We will support investments that are in the interest of the local people, both in terms of sustainability and improving quality of life. For Miskolc, the budget is 327 billion forints in county-righted cities, of which 87 billion forints, which is economic development and welfare development. In particular, we are developing the training of Miskolc and its region for a HUF 9.7 billion programme for industrial park, HUF 9 billion for the 6 projects of Miskolc University, HUF 9 billion for the development of the Miskolcpolca spa, HUF 6.5 billion for the development of the Diósgyőr castle, and among the most important ones are the construction of the fast-flow road between Miskolc and Kassa, the M30 Miskolc and Tornyosnémeti section, which will require HUF 240 billion. I would like to reassure the Miskolcs that the preparation of the projects will take place with due care and care, and that soon, see the industrial park, the foundations will also be implemented. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-11-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Volner, leader of the Jobbik Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, Why does the Government not support his proposals confirming Jobbik's Hungarian economy? It's an address. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-87	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, Jobbik put nothing more on the table than an economic programme aimed at strengthening the Hungarian economy, the main elements of which were presented through several press conferences. I would like to ask you three questions, three specific answers to these questions. One: Hungarian companies are also taxed on dividends, unlike foreigners. This is an extremely unfair situation, because a foreign company established in Hungary pays corporate tax, pays business tax, and has no other tax burden on its profits; unlike Hungarian companies who are taxed in this area. I ask you why, since the government itself claims to be national and Hungarian, the Prime Minister has not taken action to ensure that Hungarian entrepreneurs do not suffer such a competitive disadvantage in the field of taxation vis-à-vis foreigners. My second question: a number of expert studies, a number of commentary economists have already confirmed that one of the biggest problems of the Hungarian economy is unpredictability, that the government intervenes in the lives of different economic sectors by means of undefined means, it increases or reduces the tax burden on businesses. I ask you, Prime Minister, why has the Orbán government not made such a promise during seven and a half years of governance that it will cement the tax system from above in most economic sectors, promising not to increase the tax burden, but reducing it as soon as possible, as soon as the state of the budget permits. My third question concerns the integration programmes. We didn't even see this when we were catching up on the strategic sectors. Why? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-12-11-88	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2017-12-11-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As far as I can follow the questions, I can give you the following answers. As far as I know, there is a uniform tax regime in Hungary. There is no such thing as Hungarian, but it does not apply to foreign and vice versa. There must be some mistake. So in Hungary, we meet the EU's expectations for all kinds of taxation. EU expectations do not allow us to make a tax distinction. So I can't answer the question because I don't think it makes sense. In the matter of tax cuts, you do not have to promise the current government in any sense, because the current government, the Christian Democratic-Fidesz government, is the government of tax reductions. We cut taxes, we cut taxes every year, everyone knows that. All of the opposition programmes or programme fragments I've learned so far contain tax increases. We are the only party, the only party alliance in Hungary, which does not want to increase taxes, but wants to reduce them further. And on the third question, I can say that we are happy to support all kinds of integrators if they give us a meaningful program. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-11-90	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of the faction leader. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-91	Thank you very much. I'm asking you, Prime Minister, to contact your experts. The fact is that, at present, in Hungary, a Hungarian company is also taxed by your government on dividends. I am sorry that you have heard about this for the first time, but this is indeed the case, a Hungarian company will be taxed on dividends and foreigners will be able to withdraw their profits from Hungary after the business tax and corporate tax have been paid. I believe that this situation needs to be changed. The other is a question of the tax system, which is covered from above. Prime Minister, where we have seen a significant tax reduction from you, it was nothing more than the credit institutions sector, who have been taxed, but in recent years have reduced the tax burden of banks with a balance sheet total of more than HUF 30 billion by less than half. They had less than half the tax reduction, not the working Hungarian people. We simply consider this to be unfair and unintelligent. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-12-11-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. A one-minute rejoinder is the Prime Minister's word. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2017-12-11-93	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Respecting facts is a prerequisite for a reasonable debate. In Hungary, sja was significantly reduced. Is there anyone here who disagrees? 'Cause how are we gonna talk to each other? Saya had a 35-percent key. Today she has a 15-percent girlfriend. The basic food tax is down to 5%. Does anyone here argue with this? [[Dr. László Varga: Some basic foods, not all!]] No. It's a tax reduction, isn't it? Then what are you talking about? Or the corporate income tax, it's one-digit, it's less than ten percent right now. Isn't that a reduction? So what I'm trying to say is that there must be some kind of misunderstanding. We are constantly reducing taxes in Hungary. [[János Lázár: First time after the change of regime!]] I have to say that Hungarian entrepreneurs and Hungarian workers have also taken advantage of the opportunities offered by the tax reduction. [[13.30]] We represent an economic philosophy that doesn't want to solve people's lives instead of people, but we want to create an opportunity for them to work, and an opportunity for them to enter into business, and after tax cuts, we see that [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that Hungarian people have proved that they want and can work, want and can undertake. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-94	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél and Márta Demeter, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The Orbán Government and Reality II." Congresswoman Márta Demeter, please.
u2017-12-11-95	Thank you, Mr. President. Prime Minister! For more than seven years now, you have been organizing the establishment of a corruption institution in Hungary, stealing incredible money from the Hungarian taxpayers, and now we have to say that they will sit for this. [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] If you look at it, a lot of the facts in Ptk have already been made, and let me just mention those listed here, which is just the tip of the iceberg: concealing a significant degree of wealth, ordering an official procedure for political purposes, political influence on the functioning of prosecutors and other state institutions, the case of the Castle of 60 Puszta, and we might add, these are the only things that exhaust budget fraud and administrative abuse. There is no question of whether you will be accounted for, since after the change of regime in 2018, [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] They can expect hard criminal liability, regardless of whether they think they might have enough money in their pockets to get away with it. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] You're not gonna get away with this, Prime Minister. What you are doing is treason in itself, as you are hysterizing Hungarian society while doing exactly the opposite of what you are saying. My questions, Prime Minister: how is it that you hysterize society at home, while you support everything in the European Council without exception, since you are not raising a veto against the decisions of the European Union? [[Intercoms, clear lines of government parties.]] How is it that out of ten billion people are being consulted against immigration, while 20 thousand people have now been allowed into the territory of Hungary and the Schengen area unchecked with the establishment bond business: these people are being granted a lifelong residence permit, and they are doing this only and only to enrich business circles, such as Antal Rogán's name regularly arises at the offshore business network that has now made more than 155 billion in this business. Tell me, Prime Minister, how is it that people wanted for terrorism can wander around near you? It turns out Ghaith Pharaon has come to you for dinner, and it turns out Ghaith Pharaon [[The president's ringing the bell. Interviews from the ranks of the governing parties: Time!]] He's doing business with your son-in-law. How's that? Explain. And my question is, will you inherit something from Ghaith Pharaon's assets and what guarantee can you give the Hungarian people that you are not the greatest national security risk? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Intercoms.]]
u2017-12-11-96	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister. You have the floor.
u2017-12-11-97	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, Merry Christmas. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-11-98	Thank you very much... [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-99	Prime Minister, wish the Hungarian people a merry Christmas with an amazing wage crisis in the country. [[Defiance and interrogation in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Wish me a merry Christmas that the health care system has been destroyed, education is ruined, the country's future has been sold, the country's safety has been sold. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] and constantly hysterizing the Hungarian people! There is nothing else in this country, Prime Minister, but communication government, only slogans, nothing else works. [[It's constant noise.]] They do not have a solution to society's problems, and I think that you and your government have mocked the confidence of the electorate very harshly, because in 2010 you were given two-thirds authority, and in 2014 too, not only did you live with it, but I think that you have abused it in an amazing way, and that Hungarian society will not forget that. And with the LMP, we will ensure that a change of government, a change of regime, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] After that, you will be punished. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-11-100	A one-minute rejoinder is due to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2017-12-11-101	Expenditure on education amounted to HUF 1572 billion in 2010, and between HUF 1850 billion in 2016 and HUF 2000 billion in 2016 and between HUF 10 and 16 in Hungary increased by 20 percent. As for health care, we spent 500 billion forints on rural health development programs, renovated 77 hospitals, renovated 97 rescue stations, built 30 new ones, and renovated 54 clinics. We announced a program in Budapest, we planned 40 billion forints. Similar increases were made in wages. It may not be enough - I would like more - but it certainly cannot be called nothing, it cannot be considered zero, and it cannot be dealt with with with by a slap in the hand. These are the results achieved by the citizens of Hungary, to whom - once again - I wish you a happy, blessed Christmas! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-102	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gyula Budai, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:, How much money did the left-wing government take from the people? It's an address. Congressman Gyula Budai has the floor, please.
u2017-12-11-103	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Even though the Socialists were distracted in 2010, the corrupt left is still here and continues to function in the country. According to the OLAF report, metro 4 is the biggest corruption scandal of all time, during which the socialists stole one third of the investment, HUF 166 billion, and they cheated. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] But here's the latest left-wing politician, Csaba Czeglédy, and the series of frauds associated with him, which led to billions of dollars of damage to the budget and cheated hundreds of students. Good news is that Christmas and New Year's Eve can be spent behind bars by Csaba Czeglédy [[Interjection from Jobbik: A True Christian Thought!]] The Csongrád County Attorney General's Office has proposed that Csaba Czeglédy and his two accomplices be arrested in advance for another three months. Czeglédy and his associates committed a crime of fiscal fraud committed in a criminal organisation, particularly a high financial disadvantage, in which 14 people were placed under pre-trial arrest and the 14 criminal organizations operating the country. Dear Secretary of State, In fact, the criminal organization operated by Czeglédy had indeed entangled the entire country, since Csaba Czeglédy was summoned to the Szeged Tribunal as a witness in the criminal case concerning the labour agency in Macedonia, where the founder declared that Czeglédy had set up the cooperative at the request of Czeglédy. I ask the Secretary of State whether the whole country is indeed covered by a criminal organisation operated by the left and by Czeglédy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Since Congressman Gyula Budai indicated in advance that he would accept the Secretary of State as a responder, the answer will be given by State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. István Józsa: Talk about Tarsoly! You're in custody?]]
u2017-12-11-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Every good - feeling person is shocked to learn that one of the most vulnerable social groups, elderly people, and students, is shortened by withholding their wages and not paying them. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: They are lying!]] One of the most outrageous corruption scandals in recent times, in which the victims were older people and students, began from Szombathely, and it seems that they have really covered the whole country. At present, Csaba Czeglédy and his associates are being prosecuted for criminal activities, crimes of fiscal fraud, particularly high financial disadvantage, and other crimes. According to the suspicion, the criminal organisation under the control of DK and MSZP's domestic lawyer established a network between 2011 and 2016 that also dealt with student placements. It is suspected that the criminal organisation linked to Csaba Czeglédy caused a financial disadvantage of approximately HUF 3 billion to the state budget without the relevant school associations declaring general sales tax and personal income tax. The party of the Hungarian Socialist Party and Ferenc Gyurcsány continues to keep secrets and protect Csaba Czeglédy, who was arrested in advance for tax evasion. [[13.40]] There were also financial flows between Ferenc Gyurcsány and Klára Dobrev and Csaba Czeglédy. The time has come for them to finally come clean about how they relate to the scandalous transactions of their confidant. If they continue to remain silent, they confirm that the Hungarian Socialist Party and the Democratic Coalition are in partnership with their domestic lawyer, Csaba Czeglédy, as the more than 3 billion forints suspected of being cheated by him may have increased the cash register of the two parties. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Gyula Budai.
u2017-12-11-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the case of Csaba Czeglédy, the politicians of MSZP and DK, since Csaba Czeglédy has been arrested, have been talking about a conceptual lawsuit instead of standing up in public and telling us which party of more than HUF 3 billion has migrated into the register. Csaba Czeglédy did not only deceive students, and not only is he indebted to the pay of the students, given that the criminal organization managed by Csaba Czeglédy also carried out adult work mediation, the employment and mediation of professional workers working three shifts. In the same way, Csaba Czeglédy did not pay not only the salaries of students and retired workers, but also the salaries of skilled workers. I ask the Secretary of State whether they will be included in the decision to settle the financial compensation of the victims of the new series of fraud on the left, as decided by the Parliament. Thank you for your answer. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-12-11-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, The government and the Fidesz-KDNP consider it most important that victims of the case be compensated as soon as possible. During the settlement of claims, Fidesz-KDNP submitted a proposal for a parliamentary decision in which it asked the Hungarian Government to pay compensation based on fairness. With the adoption of the parliamentary decision proposal on 14 November, it opened the way for the fastest possible settlement of damages for victims, students and pensioners. However, this should not result in the payment of compensation being exempted from the damage suffered by the injured party. If there's any further damage or damage, I can only encourage them to report their claims. [[Dr. László Kács: Quaes. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Talk about Flórika Farkas!]] and we will obviously be open to this problem and to its resolution. In summary, we can therefore say that the entire Hungarian left in the Czeglédy case has a serious ethical and political responsibility, and therefore it is absolutely justified to examine it. [[Dr. László Kács: What else you got up your sleeve?]] Whether or not there has been a covert pair of funding. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: Mr. Minister! Do you really think the law doesn't apply to you? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. Mrs Bangóné Borbély Ildikó has indicated to me in advance that she accepts the person to whom she is responding, so the word is given to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-111	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, We all remember the pictures that were taken at Blaha Lujza Square for food distribution. The lines stood all the way to Astoria, among those waiting for food were children, families, pensioners, students and homeless. The Fidesz elite is increasingly disturbed by the fact that every year the Hungarians are standing in longer rows for a bowl of warm food. It does not look good in state propaganda that more and more pensioners and children are lining up for help in addition to homeless people, so they want to ban food distribution in public areas. True, Mr. Secretary, you told me last week that you denied it. They did not deny it, Mr Secretary of State, but referred to an EU programme that could not be launched for more than two years, where they received 30 billion forints from the Union in support of children in need, of mothers, and of supporting pensioners in very bad ranks, and a miracle when this programme was launched: when the elections were approaching. Mr. Secretary, you gave potatoes to those in need of Vácon this weekend. He refused to mention where the potatoes were received or from which sources they were provided for journalistic questions. I'm asking you if there was forbidden party support this weekend when you were handing out potatoes to the needy. Secretary of State, why did you need the address card? Why do you even have to humiliate these people who need them? Or if someone went there, maybe someone who didn't have an address card, they'd have chased him away? Secretary of State, I need your help from the heart. You don't set conditions on how a needy person can get! Mr. Secretary, if you asked for a home address card, why? From a data protection point of view, was that okay with you? You are not subject to the laws of which other organisations or other citizens [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Should they be? Mr. Secretary, give me an answer. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-12-11-112	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I have already said, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-12-11-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I told you last week, but I'd be happy to repeat it if you need it this week, that we have already denied that the false news that Népszava has blown up is that the government is preparing for any kind of restriction. There was no draft regulation of any kind. This draft regulation probably only existed in the idea of the journalists of Népszava, in which we wanted to limit, make difficult the work of those who are trying to help other people, so that they would like to share food with them at Christmas or at other times. You said last week in Parliament that the cruelest thing would be to try to stop food distributions by decree. I think we have denied that then, and we are denying it now, Madam honourable Member. Then you also said to me, pointing out that, Mr Secretary, you should not only talk about helping those in need, you should act like one. Political parties have a duty, you fidesz people, KDNPs, to stand there and share food. I'm not saying you gave me the idea, but I'm gonna do something to please you, and then right after that, you're gonna start attacking me right here in Parliament. Another time, I will consider whether I will please you, honourable Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2017-12-11-115	Mr. Secretary, if you're trying to please me, don't. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] I'm telling you, if you need help, it has to come from the inside. It's not because I told you to help. You must come from within, and as Secretary of State, as Secretary of State for Human Resources, you would be obliged to do so. I'm sorry, I can't accept this. The other, Mr. Secretary, is at least one thing that turns out at this meal distribution that you can dunk. In summer, in seasonal work, agriculture, there is a great need for such a handful of lads, just get ready, Mr. Secretary, after 2018, you don't have to carry 10 kilos of potato bags in public work, but 20-30 and 50 kilo bags, you know, Mr. Secretary of State. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: We open the mines again!]] 'Cause I hope they get there someday. Secretary of State, don't humiliate the poor with these address cards. He didn't answer me if the laws were complied with and where the potatoes were obtained, whether the forbidden party support had taken place. Secretary of State, answer the question. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And next time, give me a hearty meal, and not at my request.
u2017-12-11-116	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-12-11-117	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think the voters can see clearly that there are parties that deal with people's affairs, with the affairs of people in difficulty. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks.]] And there are those who don't care about that, and only with the political struggle and the scorning of the other side. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: It's you!]] Or, in your case, they're dealing with the debauchery of your own and future allies. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Answer me!]] Our policy is about people here in Parliament, too. Even when we decided to reduce the rent and we did it here in Parliament; that's when you protested. Even when we reduced the VAT on basic foods [[Dr. László Kács: Why did you need the address card?]] or even when we have doubled the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage [[Nándor Gúr: Why did you need the address card?]] and we have established the economic basis for this right here, with our parliamentary laws. [[György Szilágyi: Answer the question!]] You have not supported these measures. You have been opposed here in Parliament to decisions that help people's everyday lives, and you are also attacking an action that is really trying to help people in a difficult situation. We're trying to help people, and you're trying to help people. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] They're gonna stick to petty party policy maneuvers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Volner, leader of the Jobbik Group, wants to ask the President of the State Audit Office an immediate question: Mr President, who can say without laughing that Fidesz campaigns were fine, but Jobbik's campaign was illegal? It's an address. I give the floor to Congressman János Volner, the Fidesz... [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Yes, that's right! Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] the group leader of the Jobbik Group. Let's wake up, fellow Members. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[13.50]]
u2017-12-11-119	Thank you very much. Mr President, After the change of regime, Hungary reached its lowest point in terms of democracy. As you know, on the afternoon of September 28th, you sent an e-mail to Jobbik about the fact that I would like to check the party's management personally on the scene, even though you knew that our economic director would not be available the next day. This did not prevent you from getting on the scene the next day, carrying out checks, and again, on the day after 28 September, at 10:12 p.m. on the 29th, the online interface was closed where Jobbik would have been able to provide data to the State Audit Office. Shortly after you closed this area, you filed a complaint with the D.A. and started lying in a very impertinent way about the fact that Jobbik is hiding contracts, not giving up certain data. I appeared with Péter Schön, the party's economic director, in the crossfire of press cameras, and you didn't take these. I ask you, Mr President... - Fidesz hasn't spent a penny before at News TV's programmer and advertising company, even though he was the sole campaign manager, you didn't object to this, although it's clear that there was real performance, Fidesz's campaign was organized by News TV's advertising company. Why didn't you find anything in this case, and why aren't you willing to start an investigation even after you press charges? My second question is, why do they keep it a secret, which government agency gave it to them? The reason why this issue is interesting is because the tax office does not even have a first instance decision that Jobbik has committed any irregularities in this case. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] How does this $331 million illegal party support come up, do you think? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-11-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to President László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-121	Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I am pleased to hear that the change in the party law will now be given a sufficient focus, in which, on the basis of the 2013 amendment, from 1 January 2014, all parties will receive subsidies with the agreement of both the international and domestic public... - I would particularly like to highlight the opinion of the anti-corruption group of the European Council, GRECO, on the law that you have adopted. In this context, the SAO noted in the report on our country that the SAO had made remarkable progress in the area of campaign money and party control within the framework of the application of this legislation. This concerns the question relating to the checks carried out in 2014. Here I can immediately reassure all the parties who have obtained a mandate that, on the one hand, the Court of Auditors has made its audit report public in accordance with the legal framework and is still available on the SAO's official website, as well as the accounts of candidates and nominating organisations who have received mandates in Parliament, including Jobbik, as Fidesz was found by the SAO in basic order. I, as President, have overseen this separately from a judicial oversight point of view, but I did not consciously continue to carry out this audit within the SAO, but was under the supervision and decision of the Secretary-General. On the other hand, I have to say that Jobbik's control is under way, and in the framework of this verification, the prosecutor's office will act on the question referred in Hungarian: on the issue of the complaint. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. György Szilágyi: You haven't answered any questions!]]
u2017-12-11-122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of the faction leader. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-123	Mr. President, your hands are shaking. Mr. President, you're lying, and you're lying in a very dramatic way. I asked you a specific question: how do you think that prohibited party support of HUF 331 million comes about? Mr President, there is no calculation in this resolution either. You've made a statement, and you're waiting for the party's comments. You do nothing but execute Fidesz as a former Member of Parliament [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. György Szilágyi: That's right!]] Viktor Orbán's will. You are helping the dictatorship with your activities and the work of your organization in order to be able to financially destroy the opposition's largest party, Jobbik, before the elections. Mr President, if you retire from this question, believe me, there will be an emergency situation later. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-11-124	Before I give the floor to Mr President for a one-minute rejoinder, I must warn him of the weight of his representative structure, so that he may use it in accordance with it at other times. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] One-minute rejoinder, Mr. President. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, As I understand it, in an ongoing inspection involving your party, you threatened the President of the SAO directly. [[György Szilágyi: You operate illegally! The SAO is illegal! Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] I think I should draw your attention to the legal framework as the SAO has observed with regard to your control. [[György Szilágyi: You're lying!]] I am convinced that my colleagues, as they have done so far, will act in accordance with the laws in response to the next 15 days, and that accordingly, the answer will be given and the report will be made public. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks. György Szilágyi: You are just as cowardly as Viktor Orbán! Happy Stephen: Take your medicine! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman Szilágyi! Calm down, Congressman, and I ask you to try to keep up with the forms of Parliament. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] Dear Parliament, Representative László Földi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: . Does the Ministry of Agriculture see a solution to the damage of the Pest County foil plant producers damaged by the windstorm in October? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. István Nagy Secretary of State to answer the question because of the urgent public task. Mr. Congressman indicated in advance that he would accept Mr. Secretary of State as a responder, so that Mr. László Földi should speak. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-12-11-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As an elected representative of Cegléd, Nagykőrös and Abony, I appeal to you with a problem the size of which cannot tolerate delaying its solution. As we know, in October this year, the second half of the month, our country reached a very strong cold front, bringing with it winds of some 130 kilometres per hour. In my constituency, many live on so-called foiling, so to speak, of foil tent plantation. Unfortunately, the extremely violent wind has caused serious damage to these structures, which threaten the production, i.e. the livelihood of farmers and their families. The damage is significant, so great that the farmers affected by the disaster can't stop it on their own. I have already discussed the problem with Mr.Zsolt Kis, Vice-President of the National Chamber of Agriculture in our region. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State whether the Ministry of Agriculture can see a solution to the damage caused by the Pest County foil tent plants damaged by the storm in October. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-12-11-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State István Nagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-12-11-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, The Ministry of Agriculture was also sorry to hear about the weather anomaly that affected producers, as it is true that many parts of the country and your constituency, specifically with Cegléd Centre, have been deeply affected by the weather conditions that have caused material damage that farmers themselves cannot compensate for. We have found ourselves facing the situation that, as long as extreme weather causes more and more damage to crop production outside, as there is a high level of exposure in agriculture, the compensation schemes adopted by the European Commission only exist and exist in relation to crop production. In every property that we do in gardens, greenhouses, foil tents, this compensation process has not been accepted so far. The Ministry of Agriculture senses and hears the farmers' requests. We need to help and support their operation, as we are talking about a priority sector within agriculture, so we want to address these victims with three proposals and a solution proposal. [[14.00]] The first is that, in order to mitigate the damage caused to the foil platforms, the portfolio has developed a specific aid scheme, which will be completed in the next few days. The replacement allowance will be granted in the form of de minimis aid for agriculture, which may represent at least partial compensation for the damage caused to the victims by the storm caused by the foil wells. The assessment of storm damage at the end of October will be carried out by the staff of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economics, which we hope will provide a satisfactory solution to the damage at the beginning of 2018. We also plan to extend the non-cost- and interest-free force majeure credit under the Agrarian Széchenyi Card programme to include foil-based farmers. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr László Földi has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-131	Thank you for your answer. Dear Secretary of State, It is reassuring to me that the wallet has also dealt with this special situation, but I also show respect, as Mr Secretary of State has said in his reply, that, unfortunately, in the coming years, we can expect such extreme weather more often, and we should probably think of this when preparing the budget, when deciding on aid to the Ministry or farmers, whether the House or the Ministry. I find it hopeful that the Secretary of State will reply, and I trust that farmers will take it the same way, and that next spring they will be able to receive that amount, the small amount of aid for the damage that has been caused in their system, and they will be able to continue their farming. Thank you.
u2017-12-11-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. István Nagy, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would certainly like to mention the third pillar, because, in addition to the government's support, we must also talk about self-care. It should be stressed that the responsible attitude of producers is also important, since direct State aid cannot replace self-care. In addition, the government supports the expansion of producer self-care from the rural development programme by increasing the popularity of plant insurance premiums. We ask farmers to take out insurance for responsible farming, which can be supported by the portfolio from the rural development programme. So we are contributing to the amount of insurance that their financial security can continue to increase in the years to come. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office an immediate question: "Department bonds: Who is behind the money laundering network? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-135	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Although we already had a rumble at the Justice Committee meeting today, you have not answered many questions to this day, nor have you answered many questions at the meeting. For example, why don't you ask the Hungarian people whether they agree that you have now brought 20,000 immigrants into Hungary and the Schengen area, knowingly and organizedly, uncontrolled, just because they paid you and your friends. All this has been done with the settlement bond structure. Why don't you ask the Hungarian people how they feel about you selling the security of the country above their heads, putting the sovereignty of the country at risk, which they talk about how important it is to you? And by the way, without asking them, offshore companies near the government have now made HUF 180 billion in this business, and you certainly do not need to introduce one of the offshore companies, the Hungarian State Special Debt Fund and the associated incredibly extensive offshore network. You must know very well how things work there, which has already made HUF 155 billion out of this transaction. So let's just put it this way: what they're doing is really similar to what people smugglers do, even at the price of it, they're just doing it in suits. That's the terrible thing. In the meantime, they're running anti-immigration campaigns out of ten billion, and that's how they fool people, while they're bringing immigrants in here without any control. With this, the Hungarian state has already lost HUF 18 billion, and anyone claims anything, no matter how much they count, these figures are calculated from the data of the Government Debt Management Centre, so I think you can't deny that. And why don't you ask the Hungarian people what they think about the fact that only the company with your name allowed about 1,500 people in 2016 and sold them such permission? This 1500 is 200 more than those whose asylum application should be considered by the European Court of Justice. So finally give me an answer as to whether you will take all criminal consequences from 2018, since the country's security has been sold. And how did these offshore companies know that you were going to submit a bill that would make hundreds of billions? Thank you.
u2017-12-11-136	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister Antal Rogán. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-12-11-137	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen, Although we were indeed able to talk about this subject in depth and in length in the morning in the Committee on Justice today, I thought, however, I would answer your question, because it may prove to be more prepared in this matter than in the questions addressed to the Prime Minister earlier. So, honourable Member, the bond scheme, contrary to all its claims, is an already completed economic programme, which, by the way, was decided by the sovereign Hungarian Parliament in public proceedings. All decisions were made in public, either at the plenary session of Parliament or in the parliamentary commission, where your fellow Members were sitting, by the way. In the previous term, the representatives of your group and your former faction took part, Madam honourable Member - they never asked any questions. Why they do it these days, if you'll allow me, I'll go a little further in rejoinder. So, it's an economic program that has helped the country to finance after the economic crisis, and against your claims, which I don't know where they're getting from, the last bond was sold at a lower interest rate than the retail currency bonds today. Thus, it has certainly benefited Hungarian public finances. Between 2012 and 2017, the Hungarian State acquired foreign exchange resources from two sources: on the one hand, from retail foreign exchange bonds, they still have interest rates above 2 per cent, and, on the other hand, from settlement bonds, which had a stable interest rate of 2 per cent. And by the way, I note that the IMF loan that your fellow Members had previously been so highly praised had almost twice as high interest rates. So, honourable Member, this country has indeed benefited economically. According to the slightest calculation, a minimum interest advantage of HUF 7-8 billion was derived from this programme for the Hungarian State. And, of course, in every case, national security checks have been carried out on customers; those who did not comply with the legislation have been rejected. Investors are not obliged to settle down, they practically didn't do it, no one is living in Hungary; they created jobs with investments and real estate purchases, and they also brought capital to Hungary. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-138	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder will be addressed to Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-139	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's hard to respond to so many lies in a minute, but let me quote Michael Varga. After saying that the Hungarian State issued such a settlement bond with a total value of HUF 575 billion, it said: so I think that this is not a significant item in the financing of public debt, since we renew or repay more than HUF 6,000 billion of debt each year. Well, that's how important this was for the Hungarian public debt. Otherwise, this is a loan that Hungarian citizens will pay back. The program, although it is now closed, can be restarted at any time, since the law is alive. Moreover, these procedures and documents were not publicly available, since they had to be sued to release anything at all by the Economic Committee, and they still did not issue the appropriate documentation. And by the way, I don't know what your fellow Members say about putting the full responsibility on the National Assembly here, not that they're not responsible for this anymore, but you invented this program, so you woke up one morning saying that, oops, such a programme should be implemented in Hungary, and that you were chairman of the Economic Commission. So he can't take responsibility from himself. My question is how much money you got from this, Minister.
u2017-12-11-140	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-141	I will disappoint you, honourable Member, because I have already said this at the Economic Committee meeting. None, of course. I would add, however, that this is an economic programme like the one launched by the United States of America, England, Austria and a number of other EU countries. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: That's not true!]] And I think that, by the way, it still continues on about the same terms. We have closed this programme because today, if we were to live off international bonds, we could achieve better conditions than this. However, even today, even in the retail foreign exchange bond market, it is not possible to achieve more favourable conditions. [[14.10]] I would also like to say that, yes, all the Members have had an insight into all the decisions and, interestingly, they did not ask anything until 2015, and I think that there is a close link between when we were still taking action against illegal immigration, then you had to take them on order from Brussels. That is what this is about, honourable Member, and nothing else. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-142	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. How much EU support did Sallai R. Benedek receive? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Secretary of State Mr Bitay Márton Örs to respond to an urgent public task. [[For signal:]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Accordingly, Mr János Pócs has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-12-11-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In our country, certain press products favor pro-government representatives interested in agricultural production by giving them public agricultural subsidies or applying for them. On this issue, we must maintain a firm position that farmers do need support to maintain the economy. Furthermore, if a person affected by agriculture becomes a Member of Parliament, he does not necessarily have to bankrupt his business or sell his land. Indeed, everyone should continue to make use of the support that is needed for the operation and development of the economy. On the other hand, from certain media, and even more painful, we are also hearing from opposition politicians another position which contradicts the previous ones. According to the opposition, a pro-government representative is slowly not buying bread, let alone applying for agricultural support. The same applies in the case of an accidental relative or neighbour of a pro-government representative. In any case, however, there is nothing more than the fact that the players of the Hungarian economy have good intentions, prepared and legitimately applied for something that they fully deserve, and that their work will ultimately increase the performance of the Hungarian economy. In view of these views and the fact that, in recent times, some people have been trying very hard to lead the public in a false direction on this subject, I would like us to explore the issue of agricultural subsidies on a side that the media knows very little about. Dear Secretary of State, In the title of the question, the abbreviation S.R.B. does not refer to Serbia, of course. We would like to know how much agricultural support our fellow Member Robert Sallai Benedek and his interests will receive and what they are successfully applying for. Mr President, thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-12-11-145	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, You have just said that these farmers are right to apply for aid. That's right. There are options that are included as a source of tender. But the area aid on which the EU grants are based is land, land used, and this is not a type of invitation to tender, but it is due to everyone who cultivates the land, this is a certain aid per hectare. The question of agricultural subsidies is also good, and thank you for bringing it to today's Parliament, because in the period 2014-21, this government has developed an agricultural support system based on available resources that is favourable to small and medium-sized businesses in the family and fits into the government's programme, which aims to strengthen 80 percent of family economies and 20 percent of large farms. With regard to the amounts used, a political battle is heard, where no distinction is made as to how much land is used but rather tossing names. The various associations, foundations and legal entities belonging to Benedek's interests, Róbert Sallai, the Member of Parliament, mentioned by you, personally and through his dear wife, received 255 million HUF agricultural aid in the period 2014-17. This also proves that an impartial system is in place and that the work carried out is supported and supported. These subsidies were also granted to Congressman. In return, I would also like to respond to the land use you said. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. János Pócs is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-147	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I think we can all draw the right conclusions from what we've heard. Perhaps I would like to add so much to the fact that last year we were also informed that Mr Róbert Sallai's party, LMP, would introduce a land tax that would be levied in the case of land ownership of more than 100 hectares. This seems to be a strong agricultural and rural policy instrument in itself, but if we are thinking of press reports that there is electoral cooperation between LMP and DK, then we can also think of Gyurcsány's host programme, according to which domestic and foreign companies operating in agriculture intend to allow the purchase of land without limit. Mr State Secretary, we can also see from this that there may be a different policy, if we can follow it, but the question arises, I ask Mr State Secretary, what is your opinion on the agricultural and rural development of opposition parties. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-149	It is very difficult to sum up my opinion in a minute, but I am helped by opposition parties themselves, who do not actually have a strong agricultural policy, so I could say that I am also in an easy situation, since there is nothing to analyse. What I could tell you about the land tax, which was raised by several opposition parties, is completely rejected by the government, and we don't think it's a good idea either. We regard it as a thought that must be fought and fought. But this is not a new situation, because, in fact, for eight years now, there has been an anti-host coalition among the opposition. Let's talk about land law, national land fund management, land for farmers. With its programme, they have always, in every case, placed great emphasis on how to cancel working programs that are good and right for the Hungarian economy. It is no coincidence that there was no economic social support behind them, and if I pay close attention to major political data, then there is no other support. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, notary of the Parliament, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. Why is the government acting selectively in the application of the legislation? The Minister appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary for his reply in response to an urgent public task. The Member, Mr Notary, has indicated that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. Accordingly, Mr Nándor Gúr, Member of the Parliament, has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. I would like to ask two relatively simple questions. One is about making things more difficult for people in the lower income range, which we have seen over the last seven years. I often say to you, I ask the question more simply now: why is it, why is it that, at the minimum wage, there is a much higher tax burden than, say, seven or eight years ago? You know, because we have taken this lesson together several times, that when the minimum wage was HUF 60 200 in 2010, the tax burden on this was HUF 32,000, which was paid by employees and employers. Now, when 84,000 forints - you can count back at purchasing power that it does not reach 70,000 forints - now the tax burden is 73,000 forints. The word is translated: 41,000 forints more. If they had left these money at the companies and were to be hired, it would be a net minimum wage of 110,000 forints. My other question is not on this subject, but on the subject of pension promotion. In terms of economic growth, if this increase exceeds 3.5 per cent and the general government balance can be maintained, there is a pension premium. 2017 is such a year, but I would like to ask with respect why 2014 was not such a year when there was 4.2 percent economic growth and the general government balance could be maintained. Why? So why wasn't there a pension premium in 2014? Wasn't it because 2014 wasn't the last year before the election? Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[14.20]]
u2017-12-11-152	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-12-11-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Yes, we've talked many times and you've asked the question that you've just put as a question, or have often tried to put the question and suggest the situation that, in your time, the minimum wage has been worth more in real terms than it has been in this period. I would like to tell you that you are not right now, as it has been shown many times over the past period that many of your claims do not correspond to reality, because in your time there was a certain part of the minimum wage that had to be taxed on the persons receiving the minimum wage. So it is not true what you have repeatedly claimed that the minimum wage has not been taxed by you. It is true, however, that due to your irresponsible economic policy, public debt broke loose between 2002 and 2010, there was a year when real earnings fell by about 7 percent. It was in your time that the 13th month pension was taken from pensioners, or even the 13th month's income was taken from the employees. It is also a fact that now real wages have increased even more in the case of the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage than in your time. Of course, when the error and irresponsible economic policy had to be corrected after 2010 for a number of years because of your failed economic policy, it was not always possible to establish immediately the performance and wages that Hungarian people deserved for the minimum wage. However, after the economy allowed wages to rise, so that the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage could increase significantly, at that moment the government was taking action as far as possible. I'd like to say the next part in the next minute, in the rejoinder. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-12-11-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. One-minute rejoinder from Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your approach is not good, Mr. Secretary. It is simply not good because people with minimum wage, you can say with a calm spirit, have been stolen for five years because for five years they have had less purchasing power money than in 2010 and the previous years. In that sense, what they're doing now is just an....reimbursement activity, and now they're only giving back what was stolen from them in that period of those five years. He did not answer my other question as to why there was no pension premium in 2014, when there was 4.2 percent economic growth and all the conditions were added. I ended my question, perhaps not because the year after 2014 was no longer an election year - I ask again. Thank you very much.
u2017-12-11-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, He used the notion that it was a compensation activity, and I have to give you the truth in part. By expressing the concept of compensation, the damage that you have done during your eight-year governance has had to be eliminated and corrected, while, as I said, there has been a year when real wages have fallen, not necessarily because of the economic crisis, but because your economic policy, employment policy and wage policy have failed. It was only a consequence that the economic crisis followed, which could not be dealt with properly. It had to be fixed. I would like to stress that after the recovery of the economy, the government was able to deal significantly with both employment policy and wage policy, while real wages increased by 7-8 percent during your period, the Bajnai and Gyurcsány governments, with a real wage increase of nearly 36 percent in Hungary from 2010. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-12-11-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the immediate questions. Now it is time for the oral questions. Dear Parliament, Member Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, notary of the National Assembly, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy:, Why are labour statistics distorted in Hungary? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr. Nándor Csepreghy will answer the question on behalf of Minister of State János Lázár, who is responsible and competent on the subject. Congressman, notary, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister of State, as an additional question to which Péter Cseresnyés refused to answer, I would ask you to answer why there was no pension premium in 2014, when economic growth was 4.2 percent and all conditions would have been met. But in addition to the original question: working abroad, public employment, student work, anything else in the statistics is the same as never before. Technically, hundreds of thousands of people mate employment data by slipping about 500,000 people. By the way, there are two methods: the labour force survey, which is carried out on a quarterly basis in about 30,000 households, and an institutional statistical study that is carried out on the basis of companies' declarations. There are many differences between the two, institutional statistics show much less employment growth and enlargement. The differences between surveys have shown a tendency to increase in recent years. The population decline following 2011 - the year of the census - is not included in the story, which causes a huge distortion. They show a higher employment picture than they do in reality, in addition to slides. There is no correction of births, deaths, emigration or labour migration in their statistics. I can tell you, they're trying to manipulate people with a lot of lying statistics. I would add that people working abroad are sending home about HUF 1000 billion, 3 percent of GDP, 8-10 percent of the actions here, so the recovery of domestic consumption does not come from domestic sources, but from them. Why are they distorting me? Why aren't they doing fair labour market surveys? Mr. President, thank you very much. All I ask is that you answer my questions. Thank you.
u2017-12-11-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Nándor Csepreghy has the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-12-11-161	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to answer only your questions. However, I begin by saying that if there is a political party in Hungary that has little moral basis to question any statistics, it is the MSZP, which, by falsifying public finances before the parliamentary elections in 2006, did not give Hungarian people the opportunity to get a real picture of the country's financial situation. I think this has been such a serious activity for your party that morally questions any type of question. But allow me to answer the numbers you've been pushing. Since 1990, as many people have never worked in Hungary as today, nearly 4.4 million people. What was in 2010? Let us remember the last years of your government. In 2010, 3.7 million people worked in Hungary. In any case, it's 700 grand more than you've achieved in eight years of government. Let's look at the unemployment figures. In 2010, Congressman, your government gave unemployment indicators to the current government with 12 percent unemployment, which, after seven years of governance, was reduced by 8 percent. Today there is 4 percent unemployment in Hungary, which means that everyone who wants to work in Hungary today can work, and the majority of this 8 percent decline in unemployment is jobs created in the market sector. Public employment has decreased just as much as work abroad is being reduced. I would like to draw Mr President's attention to the fact that the Central Statistical Office is publishing and measuring these statistical indicators in accordance with standards that comply with the European Union's statistical systems, so there is nothing wrong with that. And if you have asked me a question about pensioners, let me answer that, Mr President. Pensioners must decide whether they support the government that gives them a pension premium or the MSZP that took their pension. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz. Nándor Gúr: We introduced the pension premium!]]
u2017-12-11-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Vona, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question, "Why is the Government angry with the Pearls?" It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent on the subject, responds to the question by Mr János Fónagy State Secretary. Congressman Gábor Vona has the floor. Here you go. [[14.30]]
u2017-12-11-163	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In the summer of 2016, the government decided to coordinate infrastructure investments related to short- and medium-term road development. This was then very good news for countless settlements. They waited for it in countless settlements and trusted that XXI. They will be given infrastructural opportunities in the first century. It is undisputed that they have actually received good news in countless settlements, and I am pleased about it myself; among other things, Várpalota, Hódmezővásárhely, Nagylak, Hajdúsámson is one of the settlements that get bypassed. However, I would like you to believe, Mr Secretary of State, that the people of Gyöngyös really wanted to be part of this circle, just like the municipalities mentioned above. For Gyöngyös, too, has long been longing for and dreaming of a way by. It was so long ago that the construction itself started in 2006, which, to this day, is essentially incomplete. In fact, due to design and design failures, there are also various problems that will make it difficult to complete. For example, the semi-finished road is 6.5 meters wide, which will not be able to carry out freight, truck traffic. So right now, there's Gyöngyös with a semi-finished bypass. Since 2014 there has been a post on the Facebook page of the former Fidesz MP József Balázs: in 2014 the western escape road in Gyönyös can be completed. Unfortunately, this kind of promise proved to be a campaign promise, neither in 2014 nor since. It's not finished, but it's not even planned. You're starting to feel like you're a pearl-born Member of Parliament and an interested candidate for Congress that for some reason the government is angry with Gyöngyös. For some reason, the government is punishing Gyöngyös. And if you are already here, Mr László Horváth, let me tell you that he has not spoken himself, and has not once asked the government why the bypass was not built for Gyöngyös, why there has not been any increase in resources in recent years. So I ask Mr. Secretary of State how long will Gyöngyös be punished, what is wrong with Gyöngyös; can the citizens of Gyöngyös finally expect this bypass? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-11-164	Thank you very much. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State János Fónagy, as I have already mentioned. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-12-11-165	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Mr President, Dear fellow Members, The government hasn't forgotten about Pearly. So far, a number of road improvements have been made, and we have demonstrated with a number of road improvements that the interests of the people of Gyöngyös are being taken into account by the government. As an example, in the context of the complex road renovation program, the section of the main road line 3 between the county border and Gyöngyös was renovated in some 25 km long last year, the amount of the investment exceeded HUF 2.5 billion. The government decision containing Hungary's investment in short- and medium-term road development has been amended following a presentation by the Ministry of Development. By the way, if you have mentioned names, allow me to give you names, you have been included in the projects to be carried out on a number of occasions and in many ways on the basis of a proposal from my fellow Member, László Horváth, Member of the Parliament of the region. Following the decision of the Government, the Ministry of National Development took and took the necessary measures to start the investment. By the way, not only in Heves County, not only in Gyöngyös, but also in all areas of the country, the government is particularly concerned with the development, continuous improvement and maintenance of the road network. Mr President, since you mentioned him as a man born in Gyöngyös, he was born in Gyöngyös, although he moved from there to find out about the implementation of these road improvements on the spot. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Attorney General, where is the Attorney General of Medicine? It's an address. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There are three Members, they are not here, but they are sitting next to each other: MEPs Mengyi, Simonka and Gábor Varga. If someone's sitting next to each other, there could be infectious diseases. The Simonka model virus, on the other hand, has infected several representatives. Mengyi Roland has already been indicted, and according to your information, both Congressman György Simonka and his other sitting companion Gábor Varga's family members are also under investigation. Thus, the Desertlaka virus reached Transdanubia, Cece, and Bicac. Managed public procurement, with the exclusion of competition, double-price billed, largely unused, decaying rabbit farm, internal public procurement and EU applications of Mr Varga's kin, as well as the withdrawal of EU money for health preservation in both counties with a similar network of companies. However, everyone remained in a narrower Patriot for a long time until they thought a big one and started buying shares from each other's network from 2012. Pronergy Kft., one of the companies in Bikács, in April 2015 He has acquired a share in the Paprikakert TÉSZ, an interest of the Simonka family. And see a miracle, a few months later, Pronergy Kft., this is a Bikács interest, as a single bidder, without an opponent, won four public procurements for school renovations in Orosháza and around it. I think this could be an undue advantage in exchange for the purchase of a trade, at least there's suspicion. We already know from the previous information that the number of suspects in the investigation into the Simonka network is increasing, but there's a lot of secrecy. Where is this investigation now, Your Honored Attorney General? How many companies are involved, what's the criminal case, how many suspects are there, and when are we going to press charges? Also, whether Pronergy Kft. is being investigated within the framework of the criminal proceedings referred to. the role or criminal liability of firms based on bulls or former bulls involved in the above cases? Thank you very much.
u2017-12-11-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. To answer, I give the floor to the Attorney General Peter Polt, whom I respectfully welcome. Mr. Attorney General, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-169	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Congressman! I can provide you with brief information on the technical aspects of the case referred to in your question. Since July 2014, the Central Investigator's Attorney General has been investigating the crimes of fiscal fraud and other criminal offences committed in a commercial and criminal capacity, which are particularly detrimental to property. The deadline for the investigation is 15 March 2018, and the investigation is the subject of alleged abuse of support from the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and the Hungarian budget. The investigation concerns more than 20 companies, taking into account the fact that a chain of various acquisitions is also the subject of the investigation in the context of budgetary fraud. A total of 15 persons have been interviewed as suspects so far, and a further interview with suspects took place on 5 December 2017. At present, one main person is subject to a criminal injunction restricting personal freedom. Pronergy Kft. four public procurements won by Gábor Varga in and around Orosháza - I quote:, the network of companies around Gábor Varga's family members is not the subject of the investigation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. Dear Parliament, Congressman Vas Imre, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior:. What kind of fire truck developments are expected in Hungary in order to effectively eliminate certain disasters? It's an address. Congressman Vas Imre has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-12-11-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Defence, police, disaster control, perhaps it is not exaggeration to say that these are one of the most fundamental areas for all nations, which we must pay particular attention to in order to ensure our everyday security. Special attention, since these people sacrifice their lives and their everyday lives for us, for Hungarian people. In recent years, it has been demonstrated that positive developments have started both in the area of law enforcement and defence. Since 2010, professional will and government position, as well as political will, have been all the same. However, while protecting our nation's independence and safeguarding its internal order, we must not forget the disaster prevention professionals working to prevent unexpected disasters. [[14.40]] If, somewhere, there is a high-quality, high-quality, modern personal equipment, as well as a functional and efficient motor vehicle park, which can be intervened anywhere, at any time, to deal with a disaster situation as soon as possible. Everyone can remember this summer when the Hortobágy was on fire on a thousand hectares, when a record-high flood flow came down the Danube, or just when the red sludge reservoir of the thymföld factory of his lips had been cut off. In these cases, and in many other cases, experts in disaster management have worked hard in many other cases. In view of the above, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what kind of fire-fighting developments are expected in Hungary in order to effectively address certain disaster situations. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-11-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-12-11-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Today, security is the most important community value. Today, there are two types of countries in the world, on the one hand, where there is security, on the other hand, where there is no security. According to the international view, Hungary is a safe country, one of the safest countries across Europe and around the world. In achieving this, firefighters, disaster management, have a key role to play. Since 2010, we have established the rescue fire protection system; new vehicles have been put into service; the 112 single emergency system has been launched; and as of 1 July 2015, the new service law has entered into force, with an average salary increase of 50 per cent until 2019 and 40 per cent has already been implemented for professional personnel, including firefighters and disaster protectors. Here again, I confirm that the additional 5% salary increase from 1 January 2018 also has its source: HUF 14.4 billion has been provided in the 2018 budget. So the salary increase continues. As regards the replacement of vehicles, last week, on 6 December, we handed over 15 car syringes, two-tall ambulances to the site of disaster control, and we handed over a refurbished car syringe to the volunteer firefighters in the Raven House. The series production of Hungarian fire truck syringes started in 2016 with the help of BM Heros. By 2020, we will be purchasing 108 car syringes and 20 high-rise ambulances. So far, 90 syringes and 14 high ambulances have been handed over. The government continues to consider maintaining security, the security of Hungarian people and Hungary as a priority. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We'll continue the program. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-11-174	Dear Parliament, MEPs László Kiss and István Józsa, representatives of the MSZP, wish to ask the Minister of Interior a question: what are they doing against illegal acceleration competitions? It's an address. The question will be presented by Mr István Józsa. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-12-11-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In Budapest and after Szentendrei út, illegal acceleration competitions have been regular for many years, which threaten the III. the security of the district population. Although these acts have been going on undisturbed for years, causing great indignation, the cup was filled with us when such illegal competition was also fatal. October news is that the Szentendrei Road VEDA camera system is being installed to prevent further illegal competitions. Together with László Kiss, we believe that the problem of acceleration races cannot be solved by simply camera systems and their equipment, because it is feared that after the Szentendrei trip the Vienna route will be used for acceleration races. The solution could be a kind of community campaign under increased police control. That's why I'm asking the Secretary of State when the VEDA letter system will be operational on Szentendre Road. Are you planning to extend it to Vienna? Are there any plans for increased police control in order to combat illegal acceleration competitions? And thirdly, do you plan a road safety campaign specifically against the elimination of drag races? Because it's untenable that two innocent young men are standing at the red light, and 160 from behind, someone hit them with both innocents dying. So I think it's the extreme state, but what you've seen before. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] it is justified that we take strong action against these illegal events. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-12-11-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I was just talking about safety, fire safety, emergency fire protection, and now road safety is on the agenda. I believe that here too, I firmly declare that the Government of Hungary, the police of Hungary, is doing everything in its power to ensure the safety of road users and safety throughout the country, and that we are taking decisive action against all offenders in order to prevent or eliminate the infringement. Regarding your specific questions: Budapest III. The Budapest Police Headquarters and the III. Between district government. Possible installation sites have been selected: on Szentendrei út at Záhony utca and its continuation, on Batthyány utca, on Mátyás king road, the system will be installed. The extension of the VEDA camera system to the Vienna road - this is the second question - also depends on the effectiveness and effectiveness of the system planned for the Szentendrei road. Depending on this experience, let's examine the placement of additional cameras. In the meantime, on the Vienna road, we use mobile devices to check the speed of vehicles and the police are taking decisive action against offenders. The police will not tolerate any illegal drag races on Szentendre road, Vienna road or any road in Hungary. I would also like to underline here that it is very important to bring together citizens, to comply with voluntary law and to follow the law, to cooperate with the police, because I agree with your last sentence that what happened there was unacceptable, unforgivable. By the way, once again, the police are ready to be more effective than ever. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] take action against the infringers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-11-178	Dear Parliament, Congressman Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. How long will we pay Ukrainian pensioners from the Hungarian pension fund? It's an address. Congressman Csaba Gyüre has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-179	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, It is becoming increasingly indignant, mainly in the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, but also in the country as a whole, a crowd of people who are transferring from Ukraine to Hungary and who are applying for and receiving pensions in Hungary. According to an interstate contract in 1962, persons relocating from Russia or Ukraine to Hungary with at least a permanent address are entitled to receive a pension in Hungary, and from the Hungarian pension fund. According to press reports, the number of Ukrainian citizens has multiplied in recent years. The annual amount paid to them is by far more than HUF 10 billion. In recent years, the population of some border settlements has increased, for example Kispalad, Beregsurány's population has multiplied in a few years, but in many other villages the population has increased by more than 50 percent. This is due to Ukrainian citizens who usually sign in fictitiously. Many of these do not even know the Hungarian language, so they communicate with the help of an interpreter. After taking the money, they're going home to Ukraine. They replace the Ukrainian pension of an average of 20,000 forints for the pension that is often between 170 and 230 thousand forints, but not rarely more than 300 thousand forints. In contrast, the average pension in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County last year is less than HUF 108 thousand per month. [[14.50]] The problem is not that these people receive a pension, but that the Hungarian state pays for it. On the basis of an agreement with other States, the State where the person has acquired pension rights shall pay the pension. Why doesn't the government do anything about it? Is it because they're going to be expecting the votes of these people in the next spring election? Dear Secretary of State, How long will we pay Ukrainian pensioners from the Hungarian pension fund? Why haven't we changed the interstate contract yet? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-11-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-12-11-181	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you pointed out, this is a contract concluded in 1962, which was announced here in Hungary by a legislative decree in 63. This was also concluded by the Hungarian People's Republic with the Association of Soviet Socialist Republics. So this is a very old agreement, which is not modern, not modern. Therefore, the government has also taken steps to replace this - Ukraine is also a successor to the Soviet Union - and we would like to establish a modern social security agreement following the principle of proportionate burden-sharing. Obviously, the Hungarian party also wishes to negotiate on this issue, and you are only aware of the Ukrainian attitude and the internal political relations in Ukraine, which, on the one hand, means constantly changing players, and on the other hand, they do not start negotiations with the will of the agreement, if they start at all. So this internal political feud is also an obstacle to this modernisation process. Just in order to make it temporary, until the new agreement is reached, we can restore legal relations more effectively, so there are increased checks, there are checks on living-like stays, there is a declared address on the building, whether it uses the building, whether it uses it with final intent, whether it uses it with the consent of the authorities. In Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county there were 121 such checks, 38 in Hajdú-Bihar county, 36 in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county. As a result, in 17 cases, the payment of the benefit was terminated. [[István Szávay: 17?! Oh, come on.]] When the payment is terminated, this constitutes an undue benefit, so the former must also be withdrawn. And there is an increased control at the time of the new applications, in which case 61 people have not been granted these benefits. We pay particular attention to the fact that someone is indeed living in a way where he is supposed to be, and on the other hand, we are trying to replace the convention with a modern, more proportionate agreement. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-182	Thank you very much. My fellow Members, I would like to ask you now for a few seconds while Secretary of State Bence Rétvári takes his place and asks the question that he has asked and which is to be said. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Rétvári, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. What is the Government planning to do to improve tourism in the Danube bend, including speed shipping? It's an address. Congressman Bence Rétvári has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-12-11-183	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We have already talked about the development of the M2 in connection with the transport development of the Danube bend, and this investment is clearly going well, as the work is still going on this weekend. At the same time, the railway line is also very important in the Danube bend, international transit traffic, fast-tracked and zoned trains, and even temporary nostalgia trains. At the same time, the development of the region plays an important role in all aspects of transport, including the development of water transport. It can be said that there has always been a high level of transport in the Danube, an interest in shipping in the Danube, in everyday practice or in shipping museums there, but this interest may have increased even more. And the government's decision to make Dunakanyar a priority tourism development area was encouraging, as new sources were opened. The government also secured HUF 12.5 billion for the development of fast sailing between Budapest and Esztergom. In this connection, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State which ports are expected to be developed in Vác, Sződliget, Verőcén, Kismaros, Nagymaros, Zebegény or Szobon. They plan to buy ships to serve new ships who want to use not only the public road, not just the railway, but also the shipping services, either on weekdays, weekends, seasons or off seasons. Obviously, it is also a question of how quickly the ship reaches Budapest from Vác to Vác Szobra, but it is also important for the people living there that not only in larger ports, in larger cities, on this bank of the Danube, in Vác, on the other side of the Danube regarding Visegrád or Esztergom, but also in smaller settlements, in smaller ports, there will also be ships, whether there will be ships that regularly connect these smaller settlements with each other, Vác and Budapest. Thank you in advance for your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-12-11-185	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, One of the most important aims of the tourist development in the Danube Bend is to encourage tourists arriving in Budapest to extend their stay by one or two days. The main purpose of the planned fast ship service is to connect Budapest and Esztergom as quickly as possible in the Danube. The organization of the future service will begin in the first half of next year. The aim is to create a service that, adapted to the characteristics of the Danube, provides a rapid return and return to the most touristic settlements between Esztergom and the two terminals. This is the Nógrádverőce, Zebegény, Szob, or other touristly frequented settlements mentioned by you. The project will be part of the state of port infrastructure and associated development opportunities, and I would also like to stress the need for more smooth access to, and accessibility to, the development of passenger information systems. The plans also include the purchase of new ships, the technical characteristics of which, including high driving speed, environmentally friendly and economic drive, the minimization of the depth of the dive, fast landing and high manoeuvring capacity, allow the Budapest-Esztergom journey time to be ensured in an hour and a half. Finalising the network and schedule will be the last stage of preparation work. This may be established in the light of the precise technical characteristics of ships providing services. I trust we will be able to travel together on one of the launch ships for the next year. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister a question, "How many years do you promise to build the M49 road and the prison in Ring?" It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent on the subject, responds to the question by Mr János Fónagy State Secretary. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-12-11-187	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The traffic on road 49 has now made the lives of people living in the Satmar region miserable on a daily basis for many decades, as the traffic coming from the direction of the border crossing points in Tiszabecs and Jingersima places an unbearable burden on the section between the Csenger-Győrtelek, a significant part of Mátészalka and the entire territory of Kocsord. In 2006, in 24 hours, 10 320 vehicles crossed the village of Kocsord, while in 2010 more than 16,000 vehicles crossed the village of Kocsord. During the previous cycle, I asked several times about road construction dates and developments, then they promised to start construction between 2014 and 17th. It didn't turn out to be anything. The Prime Minister promised this last year at the end of the Romanian election campaign, or on 4 May this year at the Csenger district school. Just as he promised to build the prison in Bell, which should be known that the municipality of Csenger had already won the tender in this regard a long time ago, he invested considerable resources to carry out the preparatory work, at least 80 people started education, many people gave up their former jobs and livelihoods in order to continue their activities in the execution of the sentence. Compared to this, we have seen that the first procurement procedure has failed, the second has already been successful, true, this is a substantial step forward, but it is still doubtful to start building a prison; not to mention the need to reduce the crowd in detention, and not to mention that at least 250 people could get a job. So the questions are: when will the construction of the M49 bypass road begin? How many beats will the execution take? When is the completion of the work expected from the Guardian to the Csenger section? Well, when are they gonna start implementing the bell prison? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[In the notary seat, Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Attila Móring József, Loránt Hegedűs.]] [[15.00]]
u2017-12-11-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I have already said, will be given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-12-11-189	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The network role of the M49 motorway is indisputable and therefore the preparation of the road between the M3 motorway and the border has been included in the government's short- and medium-term road development list. The preparation and design work of the motorway is carried out by the National Infrastructure Developer Zrt. started, the feasibility study and environmental impact assessment were completed, for which the environmental authorisation was granted by the Authority. A common definition of the border crossing point with the Romanian party is essential for cross-border deployment and negotiations on the road are ongoing. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The government prioritises the modernisation of prisons and the reduction of their crowdedness. Forints 103 billion are available for the development of the prison institution system and additional seats are possible by building new institutions. Public procurement procedures for execution had to be declared invalid due to unrealistically high bids. We want to entrust responsible companies with a realistic offer to carry out the work. I would ask the Member to evaluate these and to start and continue these work in the coming time. Thank you very much.
u2017-12-11-190	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, We are now at the end of the discussion of the questions. It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the publicity of economic interest and the register of lobbyists and on anti-corruption amendments to certain laws T/18152. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr István Ikotity, in a five-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-12-11-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Our bill on the publicity of economic interest and the registration of lobbyists and the anti-corruption amendment of certain laws has appeared here for the first time, as we have just put this together, we have linked these proposals together so that it can be decided in one single package and that we can start on a road that will make this whole system clearer and transparent. The bill summarises and contains the most important amendments necessary for a serious anti-corruption action. While the most important obstacles to the exercise of non-corruption public authority are decision-makers and those who are required to investigate cases, they are the most important ones, and we could talk here from Péter Polt to Flórian Farkas, but there are a number of institutional and procedural solutions that would increase the risk of corrupt players being caught or make it difficult to maintain corrupt practices. Since 2010, LMP has made a number of such proposals, which have often been rejected individually. We are constantly reviewing these and putting them before Parliament again and again, and, as I said, in this form, we have submitted this for the first time, or we have asked for the first time in this series of articles. On the one hand, these two legislative proposals initiate the creation of a law on the enforcement of economic interests, replacing lobbying rules repealed in 2010, which would extend and bring back the rules of publicity that existed under socialist governments, but did not take seriously public rules. This is about the publicity of lobby meetings, contacts and lobbying materials, and rationally re-introducing the register of lobbyists and lobby companies. In addition, the proposal contains a number of additional legislative amendments to help prevent and detect corruption. For example, by making public money more transparent, we mean the condition of full and immediate publication of the validity of public contracts spent on public funds. We'd go public with all the government applications, ban government propaganda. It is clear here that the total ban on the publication of propaganda ordered by paid state and municipal or publicly owned companies and the limitation of other media purchases by these companies to market conditions in order to reduce the covert party financing. We would ban concentrations more strictly than public procurement. The rules on conflicts of interest which are far more detailed than the current one are rules on the exclusion of conflicts of interest between persons involved in the preparation or decision on public procurement, in particular close relatives. We'd be shutting down offshore for good. The exclusion of corporate interests without a transparent ownership background for government members and civil servants and the complete ban on contracting offshore companies in the public sector, which also requires a review of the existing contract stock. Then we'll go public with the ownership of the companies. In the case of the ownership of companies with non-transparent ownership, the actual owner's registration would be mandatory. We would strengthen and autonomous the State Audit Office. This is important in order to enable the expansion of its anti-corruption tasks to be achieved: the preparation of the corruption risk map can be completed, and the substantive examination of reports of public interest in the form of corruption can indeed be carried out. We would give criminal protection to transparency and the disclosure of corruption. We'd like to have the investigative articles investigated. It's a current prosecution practice to say you don't read newspapers and you're not informed of such information. Finally, we'd like to introduce the investigative tribunal. We believe that this package of proposals would help the country to operate in a more non-corruption manner. We ask for the support of this proposal.
u2017-12-11-192	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, One representative per group of representatives may now speak within a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group.
u2017-12-11-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill submitted by the LMP in a normal country would, of course, be supported by Parliament, the Members of Parliament, as our task would be to spend public money as transparently and transparently as possible in our country, making public public funds, and voters and everyone who wants to see what is happening in the country. I say this in a normal country; but it is not expected to be included in a series of subjects, as Fidesz-KDNP Members are likely to vote off this proposal, because if they voted for it, they would have to have themselves accounted for, because it is the Fidesz-KDNP representatives and the current government who are constantly stealing public money and taking stolen money out of the country through offshore organizations. The bill is about, for example, the fact of lobbying and encounters and lobbying materials being made public. How can they be public when the environment of Viktor Orbán is the lobbyists at the Orbán government today? They are the ones who lobbie the various draft laws, they are the ones for whom various legislative amendments are born. Then about taking action against offshore companies - government members and government commissioners are involved in offshore companies, such as government commissioner Andy Vajna or Stroman of Lőrinc Mészáros, Viktor Orbán, who earns HUF 11 million an hour with Viktor Orbán. These people are stealing all of our money, these people are stealing the public money that could be spent on someone else. [[15.10]] Therefore, Fidesz-KDNP is unlikely to support this bill. Unfortunately, this bill will also have to wait until 2018, after the elections, as the 21st century. Century parties are going to charge the people who stole the money, and we're going to adopt laws like...
u2017-12-11-194	Congressman, thank you very much...
u2017-12-11-195	...to make the whole system clearer and more transparent. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-12-11-196	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács in a two-minute time frame.
u2017-12-11-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also welcome anyone who would be here from the government in the debate on the inclusion of such legislation in the subject series. This also shows the interest of the governing parties and the government that no one from the government is here. However, it would be okay for them to make an opinion on the fact that economic interest in Hungary today does not, in our view, depend on who is clever, smart, how much he works, what his ability to take risks or what he knows, but on who the finger of the dear leader points to, and then he will be successful. And they grow out of the earth Andy Vajnák, Garancsik, Mészáros Lőrincek, and people who, I think, cannot be the heroes of Hungarians. Compared to this, this draft rule that we are about to have before us would help us to adapt to, and even provide a framework for, this system. I'm sure the Fidesz won't support it, too, because they're your heroes. We are not the heroes of these people, not the heroes of the Hungarians. We see that we have managed to raise offshore, for example, to the state level, just think about the residency bond business. So we want to be clear on this, and we will also support this proposal. In the same way as in political activity, the types of support and information campaigns that the Hungarian government is conducting, whether the CÖF is transferred; I will translate for you: Fidesz people dressed in civilians, who are doing nothing but political activities. By the way, it is either financed by companies with Hungarian taxpayers' money, or it is made out of forints. All they do is blow government propaganda. Why not, let's say, about financial activity, why not inform people about better financial activity so that there are no Quaestor scandals, why just, say, immigrants? We will, of course, support the proposal. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2017-12-11-198	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz Group.
u2017-12-11-199	Thank you very much for the floor. In fact, this bill would allow rich people to benefit from it because it wants to introduce a new organization, the lobbyist. Obviously, those who can afford to make a living [[György Szilágyi: Have you read it?]] They won't be able to hire a lobbyist to do that. This is why, in 2010, we abolished the law on lobbying at that time and adopted the opinion of the 2010 CXXXI for the draft legislation. Act on social participation in the preparation of legislation. On this basis, citizens do not need to receive lobbyists, they do not have to pay for them separately, but they can express their views either on a bill or, say, a draft municipal decree. And we would not consider it appropriate, by the way, to have lobbyists in individual administrative matters to any public body, in what way, let us say, an administrative decision. Congressman Ikotity said they wanted an autonomous SAO. I would like to inform my fellow Member that, under the Fundamental Law and the Law on the State Audit Office, the State Audit Office is the financial and economic audit body of the Parliament. I don't know, by the way, that you should be independent even from the National Assembly. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Only Fidesz!]] the State Audit Office. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Look, if you look at it metaphorically, it's really independent of parties when one of the parties gets out of Parliament. Fidesz doesn't plan on getting out of Parliament. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Just you!]] In fact, we plan to win another election in 2018. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You can plan!]] So we do not recommend the inclusion of this bill in the series of articles. Thank you for listening.
u2017-12-11-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, [[There's a lot of noise from Jobbik's benches.]] I would ask my fellow Members to do this, however hard it is to sit down today with sufficient seriousness. [[György Szilágyi: Well, this is hard!]] Do this, Congressman. [[Constant noise from Jobbik's benches.]] Dear Parliament, Since several groups have not indicated their intention to speak and the independent parties do not participate in the debate, I will ask the Member if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Ikotity to István:]] Mr István Ikotity has the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2017-12-11-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to use this speech to thank those who support this proposal and express their intention on this. I would also like to say that I am very sorry that no member of the government is taking part in this series of things, and I regret Mr Vas Imre's statement that he has not been able to study this proposal. [[Dr. Vas Imre: No! I read it all the way!]] And he was talking about things that didn't have any connection to it. But he managed to put a smile on many's faces even in connection with something so serious. Mr President, thank you for the floor.
u2017-12-11-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the transparency of the state security past and on the amendments to the laws necessary to exclude the professional staff of pro-state leaders and dictatorship from the possession of certain public offices. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr István Ikotity, in a five-minute timeframe.
u2017-12-11-203	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, There are many speculations as to how many times we will submit this proposal and how often government parties will reject it. Now it's the sixteenth. Sixteen times we've tried to reach the real public. The reason why it is important to finally have a real public record is that even after 27 years, we cannot see clearly how the communist power-owner organizations that govern state security have transcended the economic, political or even media regime change. It is important to be active, and it is not only about agents, but also about political leaders of the repressive machinery, so that we can clearly see, for example, how many people were involved in the various fractions and political and economic moons of the regime-changer parliament, how many of them had once entered into service from conviction and then changed conviction, suddenly become small farmers or liberals. We have the right to know that, and every Hungarian person has the right to know that. We have the right to know how many people were in Hungary at the dawn of the regime change who served the communist state security and then became the beneficiary of privatisation with the established relationship system. Until we can see exactly how long-running networks affect political decision-making or economic life to date, we are voting blindly. Whoever hides the files, who escapes the public disclosure, sends the message to Hungarian society that there is butter behind their ears, that the Hungarian people are not interested in learning about the mechanisms that have taken place in the past that could be used to rob this country after 1990, and that have enabled them to exercise power with the conviction they changed in the new system. When Fidesz-KDNP constantly says no to public disclosure, they want to hide this communist state security past. Ladies and gentlemen, a book has been published today, which is precisely what we are dealing with, by the way. It seems that the processes here are so cumbersome, so slow, obviously the Fidesz-KDNP is the tie to this, that it precedes society, prevents scientific research. If you look at this in this book published today, you can see what it really is. This book reveals that it has actually been used here for a long time and that they may still be using these files and hiding these files to blackmail, threaten, discredit people, and use them as a political tool. [[15.20]] This is a great opportunity in Parliament just today, when this book has been published, so that when this is voted tomorrow, we will accept it and pour clean water into the glass, so that the cleansing of Hungarian society can begin in this sense, with this proposal. This is important, we feel, as I have said, both politically and economically and in the media, the influence of power on the fact that this can continue to be easy. It is not clear to the Hungarian people how much this appears. It is not clear to us, as Members of Parliament. I think that this is not clear to most of the Fidesz-KDNP representatives, which is why it is important to make this public in this way and not to blackmail anyone. After all, it turned out that a significant part of them, who were accused of this and who are still in the public consciousness of having received their envelopes, and who are then stamped on them by everyone, could easily be - at least it seems to be supported by the facts - that they were not so affected, while those who are most involved in this and most guilty still remain silent to this day, and that even public life, the course of the country's affairs, is affected. Please support this proposal. Mr. President, thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-12-11-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have a two-minute speech by one representative per group of Members. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group.
u2017-12-11-205	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are 27 years behind on such laws. It should have been 27 years ago that agency files should have been made public, and 27 years ago it should have been possible for operators and service providers of the pro-state dictatorship to not be allowed to carry public offices in Hungary. Fidesz-KDNP probably won't vote for this bill tomorrow, not even because in the last seven years, with two thirds in possession, you haven't dealt with the agent files. The only reason they won't vote for it is because we're going to vote tomorrow on you as the National Remembrance Committee, created to explore the pro-state past, how you want to transform it. The only reason you will not vote on this tomorrow is because, at the moment, there is a political recovery towards the one-party system, because you are trying to build a dictatorship in this country, not even for the period before the 1990s, the dictatorship of the Kádár era, but the dictatorship of the Rákosi regime of the 40s in this country, and it is clear that you will not vote for such laws. They will not vote either, if I have already mentioned the National Remembrance Committee, because we will vote on it tomorrow, and you will vote for it in Parliament, so that the people who served the party state dictatorship will even be paid. For example, the Mátsik György who requested a death sentence for 27 people after 56 who executed Péter Mansfeld, who you are holding and sustaining with a luxury pension, will now have the opportunity for the National Memorial Committee to pay, say, a salary. Or, let's say, the father of the president's father, who was also involved, is the father of the president of the National Remembrance Committee, who was also involved and who could give money to people in your organizations, in your ranks, and who served the dictatorship of the party state... - these people are constantly being protected by you, so you do not vote for these laws. Of course, Jobbik would support this bill. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-11-206	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if there's any further comments from the factions. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz Group.
u2017-12-11-207	Thank you very much for the floor. In any case, for the LMP fraction, it is a significant shame that they cannot present a bill 16 times. [[Defiance from the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] to be included in a series of subjects on the basis of the Act on Parliament and the Rules of Procedure. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You're getting tougher!]] [[Defiance from the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] to be included in a series of subjects on the basis of the Act on Parliament and the Rules of Procedure. (Daniel Z. Carpathian: You are getting tougher!) This bill of yours is at least a violation of the law on two points. We have called attention to this at least 13 times, 14 times, but it doesn't matter to you, because your goal is not to include it in a series of objects (Delight from Jobbik and LMP lines). ), submit a bill that cannot be included in a series of articles [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Teach us, Master!]] Because it doesn't meet the requirements. The publicity of the files was created by us, by the way. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Liar! You're lying again!]] Victims or observers have the opportunity to review all the files, and they can decide whether or not the victims can decide to make this public. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: What are we talking about? Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] In addition, we have established the National Remembrance Committee, which, in our opinion, is doing well in its work. Each year they report to the Parliament's Justice Committee, where concrete life stories are presented. [[György Szilágyi: Give me one result! Dániel Z. Carpathian: Give results! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] otherwise, they'll make it public... [[György Szilágyi: Give results!]]
u2017-12-11-208	Congressman Szilágyi, not dialogue, sorry.
u2017-12-11-209	They say they're making literature. [[György Szilágyi: Only an opinion can be given!]] So I think we've done a lot of work for the cause in a constitutional way, so it's in compliance with the Fundamental Law. Unfortunately, 16 times is not enough for this work. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-12-11-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, With all due respect, my fellow Members, the speeches are not based on dialogue. [[Dóra Dúró: We know!]] So everyone has the opportunity to express their opinion by faction. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else from the other factions would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, who wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2017-12-11-211	I would like to begin by thanking those who have expressed their support for this proposal. Once again, I would like to say that there is no participant from the government in the proposal, which we believe is extremely important, which would lead to Hungary's renewal and purification. Unfortunately, my colleague Vas Imre's record has been jammed; we have said this many times. We have repeatedly refuted what you're saying now. There is a place for this proposal, too, and this is indeed necessary. To the thought of turning it around that you claim that we have put forward such a proposal which does not comply with the Fundamental Law, that we just want the agents' files not to be public, I have one thing to answer with. I am quite certain that, according to this line of thought, I do not know how much you have read this book published today, or how it is described, I am going to tell you that this book shows that according to the examination of this book, there is no such thing as being an agent of State Security and Soros. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oh, yes!]] Gentlemen, even you wouldn't be able to do this. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks. Gábor Bányai: It was a big saying!]] I think that this line of thought would fit perfectly with what my fellow Member Imre Vas thought, which I wanted to add. Mr President, thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-12-11-212	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the adoption of the party-independent principles of education policy H/18173. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Cultural Committee. First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr István Ikotity, in a five-minute timeframe.
u2017-12-11-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, What's this about? What's the common denominator about? What is this initiative about? I would like to start with a very short introduction, and this points to the history of successful countries and the history of their education policy, which I think Hungary would be lucky to follow. For example, there is Finland's case. The secret of their educational success is well known, which is that they became one of the most developed countries in one of the poorest countries of the world, not Europe, after World War II. The management and grouping of very narrow financial resources were resolved by investing in education and the future. It was resolved by creating a consensus in a wide range of parties, political parties and society, a consensus that is about agreeing in education, what we accept, what is common, and then let us not argue about this, let us not change the direction of education every four years, unlike many other things. Let us not depend on political cycles as our children's education progresses, prevent teachers from being hindered by reversing the direction of education over and over again, or by making a significant change. [[15.30]] This would be the recipe, so simple, anyone could easily understand. This is what we are looking at, this is what a proposal has been drawn up this year, in March 2017, starting in February, and has been published in April. It was sent to all parliamentary parties, organized by the Karátson Gábor Circle. This proposal... - a lot of both left-wing, left-wing, conservative and liberal educational experts, professionals and civil society representatives have contributed to this and have made very interesting compromises. You've found points that we share, you've found elements that you can all accept. It is said that this statement, this proposal to agree on this policy, to pass through political cycles, to govern education policy over the four years, that is what this proposal is about. Because what has happened in Hungary in the last 27 years? It's worth a look. I'll just give you a few numbers: now we've got the fifth basic course. Last week, in the Committee on Culture, he said that at least 10-15 years would be needed to introduce and integrate the current basic curriculum, a society will adopt the new basic curriculum, and the fifth basic curriculum will be prepared. Obviously, it's not enough four to five years for a new master's plan to go undercover. How does the educator society react to this constant change? Think about it, when they're doing a job, and there's a new political course that grinds all the textbooks, says there's no need to do that, and we're putting out new ones. It changes the direction of education, changes the methods of education. He touches the system at a number of points, and he says that all that's ever been worth nothing is toss it in the trash. Not only is it going down to zero, but it's going down, because people, teachers, employees are facing the fact that what I've done so far doesn't mean anything. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: That's not true!]] My fellow Member says, using it as a dialogue, that this is not true. You'll have a chance to respond to that. Ask educators about this chaos that's happening right now, what they call education policy. Unfortunately, that's what's going on, in a constant change, in a constant exposure. A lot of people say that one of the biggest flaws in politics is that it thinks in four years. The policy, which should be about determining the country's assets and long-term assets, is very often only able to think in four years. This proposal, which is before you, is about reaching an agreement on at least one area in the field of education, a proposal that allows for a trend independent of politics, regardless of parties, regardless of views or trends. Nevertheless, everyone can add to this in their current course, but let there be a minimum that we do not go under, that is what this proposal is about. I ask with respect those present and all parties to support this proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-12-11-214	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, One representative may now speak in a two-minute time frame for each group of representatives, with no independent representatives participating in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, Jobbik Group.
u2017-12-11-215	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As in the committee, Jobbik will, of course, support the inclusion of this proposal in the series in the plenary tomorrow. We support it not only because we can agree with the vast majority of what it says, but also because of the basics that need to be discussed in relation to education. If there is a system in which four-year redesign is particularly harmful, then education is definitely harmful. A political decision in this system has much more weight, much more responsibility for the education politician than in many other disciplines, because children who enter or participate in the education system will not be six years old again, the current freshmen will not be freshmen again. These fifth graders will not be in fifth grade again, and ninth graders will not be in ninth grade again, they will not be able to graduate under the same rules as the graduates are now out of the school system, so we can mention higher education, of course. On this proposal, as István Ikotity said, a broad professional consensus has emerged. I believe that this is certainly something to be taken to heart by politicians, because there are very, very few issues in which politicians can agree with each other, but that even the representatives of the profession can name them and create such a document through common thinking, unfortunately, it is extremely rare in our political culture in all policy areas. Experts specifically linked to Fidesz were also involved in this development, which is why it is of particular value, since we are not able to hold a substantive debate, let us say, in the area of education policy. Of course, Jobbik participated in this discussion, and I thank István Ikotity very much for this initiative, and I would like to emphasise once again that we support the inclusion of the series of subjects. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-12-11-216	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Victor Vinnai, Fidesz Group.
u2017-12-11-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Just as we did not support this draft parliamentary resolution at the committee meeting, we will not support it now, because we consider this draft to be false, because, behind the mask of professionalism, LMP, in particular LMP, wants to force its own education policy. I will tell you why; because I have looked at these 20 points, I would like to mention only one or two points in the draft parliamentary resolution, because in order to find a common denominator in these points, perhaps the parties should agree first, and then professional organisations can develop this education policy. [[Dóra Dúró: Everyone is invited!]] But the timing is good, because in fact, in four months there will be elections in Hungary, and I think that is why LMP, István Ikotity threw this into the deep water, because our interests are in the interests of national interests, government interests and the interests of children. Let me tell you three things. He's been talking about the National Basics Plan, that there's been a fifth basic course since 1990, I suppose. It has been five years since 2012, it is under review, and you know that we talked at the committee meeting about the introduction of the new NAT in the autumn of 2019, which contains very important, forward-looking elements, is led by an excellent academic, and most of the profession, I do not say that everyone, but most of it agrees. Then let me just say that we can agree on quality, chance and talent. In education, territorial differences are being settled, and resources have been spent much more by the Fidesz-KDNP government since 2010 than any other government has. The Prime Minister said on an immediate question that we spent HUF 1500 billion in 2010, which is HUF 1800 billion now, and next year we will spend HUF 2000 billion on education. I think that, of course, it could be agreed that there should be a common denominator, but this is the common denominator that István Ikotity now has. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We've heard about your presentation. It's not our common denominator. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2017-12-11-219	Thank you, Mr. President. You know, my colleague Vinnai, the entire Fidesz-KDNP education policy has done the most harm? For the children themselves. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai is shaking his head.]] Don't shake your head, Congressman, I'm afraid I must say we're experiencing all the damage. I too have three children in school, we have been fighting with the children for the past eight years, and believe me, my fellow Member, we are having a very difficult time living what is happening today in the field of education; as Mother, I see what the children are suffering. Creating a chance, Congressman? Where? When they're trying to stop the kids from going to high school? Do you know where it starts? When it is stopped in school itself, because if it turns out that children want to apply to a six-grade high school, the school itself has to do with retaliation for those parents and children, because there is a growing struggle for the few children who are still born in this country. You know, my fellow Member, we listen a lot here to how much money you put in education. You know, the kid's worth every penny, every penny. There is no money that can't be spent in the field of education, but, you know, it doesn't matter how or what the end goal is, and the development of children is not the end goal for you. You know, this can also be seen from surveys that one in three of the children who have graduated from high school today would prefer to study abroad, and every other child who is 18 years old wants to leave our country. [[15.40]] Well, then, Congressman, education cannot be seen as a success sector. And one more thing: we just have to look at the PISA tests, Congressman, how horribly Hungarian children perform. Well, then, I think that, as my fellow Member has said, it is possible to learn from countries such as Finns who really take education policy seriously. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-12-11-220	Thank you. Dear Parliament, If I remember correctly, all the factions have made their point, yet I ask if anyone else wishes to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, who wishes to respond in two minutes.
u2017-12-11-221	Thank you, Mr. President. What is this proposal about? This proposal would mean a peaceful, peaceful, predictable construction in education. This proposal is about public education. This is a proposal that is not proposed by the LMP, this is the proposal of the initiative called Karátson Gábor Kör, which organised a conference at the end of February, which involved more than a hundred people, a significant part of the educational profession. These people there said that there was indeed a happening here in this country, at this conference, which has happened in many different places, here at last they are in one place, and they express the intention of the educational professionals - really from everywhere, near Fidesz, near other parties, I don't even say parties, people of different world view said - that this is an opportunity: to find common minimums. And after very serious professional work, they did this, summarized it in 20 points, and sent it to all parties. We have tabled this proposal because we have found that this has received little echoes. Perhaps there is an opportunity for this to be adopted. We think that this would be an epochal thing, since we would succeed in setting Hungarian education on an evolving path. I do not want to respond to the speeches that Congressman Vinnai has said, that is not what it is, Congressman, it is not the parties who have given how much, I deny it, I cannot deny it, I can easily deny it, in any way. This is about taking this battle out of the hands of the parties. Let us not decide what parties have done about it, but, finally, let us move forward in cooperation in this matter, not by uniting everything and agreeing on everything. We are talking about a minimum that is included in this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2017-12-11-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the urgent measures to be taken to ensure a safe living from wages and to create the conditions for worker safety. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Enterprise Development. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr László Szakács, in a five-minute timeframe.
u2017-12-11-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would welcome again anyone from the government if he were here when we were discussing the rights of Hungarian workers, but he is obviously not interested in this, as we can see that he is not represented in the Chamber. We held part-country meetings, several of them, and one of them specifically dealt with workers' rights and the world of work. We have seen that, in recent times, the world of work has undergone a rather serious change, and we have also seen that this was generally done at the expense of workers, because the government thought that Hungary would be more competitive if workers had much less rights. There is not always a need to think about legislation. There are also lower rules, such as the issue of the six-month work framework, which has made it completely opaque to issue the work organisation and working order which was later raised to three years. So if someone is overworking in Hungary today, then the employer will also account for it within three years. This means that if you still have that company, and if you still have that employer, then you can ask the employee to earn it. These restrictions, such as the restriction of the right to strike or the new labour code, which was adopted by this Parliament, we know under what circumstances, in the late-night debate, the rights of workers have been seriously and severely undermined by the idea that this would be one of the covassions of competitiveness. Well, that's not what happened. What we see in Hungary is that if they offer employers' rights such as, say, their role models in China, the People's China, that if they offer working conditions, employee rights, they thought they would be as competitive as China. No! It was measured: each international statement shows that we are going down in this, last year we are 67th, this year we are 69th in the competitiveness ranking. But there's no way to make sure that if someone's working, they can make a living. It is not possible to say today in Hungary that equal pay is due for equal work. You can also say the gender difference here, because there are other opportunities for men and women in today's Hungarian labour market, but it can also be said that there are different cities in each region, as there are about three cities in Hungary, which are still viable, including the capital, and the wages are much higher than in us, South-West Hungary, where the wages are mostly half the share of the same companies for the same job. We constantly demanded that the minimum wage be at least HUF 100,000 net, and that the rules of employees, employers and contributions should be changed accordingly, and not least we asked for it, we demanded it, and we also submitted an amendment to it to increase the wages of local government workers in the public sector, and it last rose in 2009. Employees' vulnerability should be eliminated, safety rules should be introduced instead of the current legislation and the system of tripartite reconciliation and the right to strike should be restored. Mothers can return to work with postpartum security. The OSH system must be strengthened, adult education and language education programmes must be placed on the flag of competitiveness, because they are the ones that will make Hungary competitive, because the labour force itself will be competitive, because the added value will be much higher if we continuously train people who work or speak languages. It's just that it's not in your interest, because then they might be able to watch a newscast in a foreign language, and they're not saying what you're saying. Of course, we need to guarantee that those who are in a working age, or who are not in an active age, and who can finance their own lives fairly. These are, more or less, the groups of cases in which you have not stepped forward, but have stepped back, not one, more, much, in recent times, because you are not workers, you are not on the side of the workers, you are on the side of capitalists, of companies, and you have tried to put companies in a position to make them more competitive. Failed, companies did not become more competitive, Hungary slipped down the competitiveness ladder. Well, then, let's give the workers their rights back. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2017-12-11-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A representative may now speak in a two-minute time frame for each group of representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group.
u2017-12-11-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I had the opportunity to listen to Mr Cseresnyés Secretary of State about the situation of Hungarian workers around 12.45 a.m. today. Well, I'm from a country that's not for government party pubs, and the reality is that in many cases, they pay the employee 4,000 forints for 12 hours of hard work. The other reality is that Fidesz was able to agree very well with the left, by the way, that the neoliberal sociopathic dogma should be enforced in Hungary, which, by the way, meant nothing but a low wage level and that workers' rights should be cut and capital should be lured into Hungary. This, on the other hand, meant preventing human resources as such. [[15.50]] Trade unions have been disarmed to this end, and workers have been completely delivered, sacrificed on the altar of capital interests in order to produce cheap wage slaves, obedient biorobots for multinationals and their own Dodgeballs. What does Jobbik say about this, what is our alternative? We say we need to write a new work law book, because what we have now is the slave law that belongs to the trash can, as well as a new trade union law and a new strike law. But above all, it would be very important to have dialogue, a dialogue with the protection of the interests of workers, much more stressed than we can now experience on the part of Fidesz. Furthermore, trade union leaders must be protected by law, and labour control powers should be placed in the hands of trade unions and the defence of interests, which prevent the reproach that is now being observed in Hungary in this respect. The resolution proposal will be supported by the Jobbik Group. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2017-12-11-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Ikotity, LMP Group.
u2017-12-11-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The May Other is in favour of the proposal for a decision, as we have already supported all proposals aimed at strengthening the situation, rights and ability of workers to assert their interests, and increasing their income. However, we have put a much more concrete bill before the House, a package of proposals against workers' poverty, than these less tangible proposals. This was voted four times by the governing parties. Last week, in the Economic Committee, we were voted out on the grounds that our proposals for raising wages were campaigning. Let's see what the government thinks is cheap campaigning. It has also been said today by the Prime Minister that the government is the government of tax cuts. If that is true, then it is incomprehensible why you voted off our proposal for a fair tax system that reduces 90% of employees' taxes, which would have increased the net minimum wage by HUF 26,000, the average wage by HUF 38,000, and the double average wage by HUF 23,000. Nor can it be understood why the proposal that would have made the minimum wage the basic salary of the civil servant pay table was voted down, i.e. it would have doubled the basic salary for the tenth year next year. If the government had called itself family-friendly, how it could have voted off our proposal, which would have contributed significantly and in the longer term to the costs of raising children, it would have increased the family allowance and doubled the family tax allowance for single children in two years. Orbán also said today that the government has reduced the VAT on basic foods. If that is true, then why did they vote off the reduction in the VAT on locally produced fresh fruit and vegetables or freshwater fish. We therefore support the proposal, and the workers deserve much more. Thank you.
u2017-12-11-228	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group.
u2017-12-11-229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal of the MSZP Parliamentary Decision on the measures necessary to ensure a safe living from wages and to create the conditions for worker safety is intended to ensure that the country's split-up, in which the Orbán government has unfortunately achieved serious results over the last seven years, is terminated and that an opposite process is started. On a global scale, a macroeconomic recognition is that broken societies are necessarily breaking down. It won't be good for your top 10 percent if the greater part of the country breaks down and you can't make a decent living. That is why we demand that those who work are able to make a living from their salary, so that men like women get equal pay for equal work, that the minimum wage - because the work always depends on the workplace - is at least 100,000 forints, so that in the public sector, including local governments, the salary base is substantially increased, so that mothers can safely return to work after giving birth to restore the right to strike, so that the system of occupational protection provides substantial protection, and also guarantees for those who are accidentally injured, and in the education system, adult education, which is a flexible adaptation of lifelong learning to the requirements, helps the state, the government help. These are what we are asking for, and that is why I ask my fellow Members to accept our proposal for a fairer Hungary. Thank you.
u2017-12-11-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if any of the other factions would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2017-12-11-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In fact, there is nothing to answer, because I have to thank the person who has spoken for the support, who has not spoken, and who, unfortunately, is the governing party association, who has not given his opinion on what he thinks about the representation of workers today. They always hide behind statistics. By the way, I welcome the representative of the government, I am pleased that you are taking part in the debate, and you are here for at least one of the proposals. So you don't give your opinion on what you think about people's problems in the world of work. You believe that everything in the statistics is in order. The only thing you need to be aware of is that if you've had breakfast twice this morning and a worker hasn't had one, then you're both statistically well fed, but technically one of them has eaten too much, and the other one is still hungry. I believe that you are in the same way as you are in this debate. They're gonna hide behind the statistical numbers, and life is gonna prove you're wrong, and you're gonna be replaced for this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-12-11-232	Thank you, Congressman. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide to take the necessary measures to recognise and announce the mandatory scope of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Elimination of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence H/17954. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, in a five-minute timeframe.
u2017-12-11-233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, We may not even be able to count the fact that we want to put the ratification of the Istanbul Convention on its own agenda, that we could at all debate in substance between the walls of this House why it is necessary to ratify the Istanbul Convention. A few months ago, we might have even seen hope that pro-government politicians could be positive about this issue, but in recent weeks, it has been stated that while Fidesz-KDNP is in the government, it is true that accession was signed in 2014, but that the Istanbul Convention will not be ratified. This is regrettable because we know from statistical data that a woman, a child per month, dies from domestic violence, and here it should be pointed out that in most cases, either her own husband, ex-husband, partner, relative is the perpetrator, the one who beats his wife or his own child to death. We know from statistical data that an abused woman tolerates abuse about 35 times before asking for help. I would add that in every case discovered, there are 25 unexplored, invisible cases. Every fourth to fifth woman in Hungary is forced to endure domestic violence. As the pro-government politicians now take up this subject, we know very well that at the last committee meeting, my fellow Member Vas Imre said - I will quote literally - that I would, however, draw attention to the fact that the Istanbul Convention is attacking the traditional family model, if someone knows and reads this international treaty, this is what they see, and the other is that the Convention would bring gender philosophy to law. [[16.00]] My fellow Member! It is very clear that you have never read this treaty, because you wouldn't say such things. I would add that if you said that by ratifying the Istanbul Convention, we would attack the traditional family model, then you would honestly admit that it is perfectly okay for you to beat a woman today, exploit her financially or physically abuse her, rape her, abuse children, abuse pensioners, and all the tools have been accepted for a traditional family model. You know, when the world is full of these kinds of crimes and we get reports of such abuse more and more in Hungary, I don't know what else should happen to intervene. I know that it will be said that you have already taken what steps children under the age of 12 have taken sexually or even criminally - it is perfectly all right that we are making laws and trying to tighten them up, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the 13-year-old child is a child, the 14-year-old child is a child, and even the 17-year-old child is a child to me. I would add that this Istanbul agreement would completely handle the whole thing. Resources should be provided, and we are talking about strengthening the entire signalling system. Because when I tell you that there are 25 unexplored cases in one case, I think we can say in Hungary that we have not been able to achieve success in this case. With statistical data, we can prove that despite tightening the laws, there will be no fewer deaths, no fewer victims of domestic violence. Then something's not right. We would like to draw attention to the need for public media, how this issue should appear in Hungary today, how professionals should, whether psychologists in educational institutions are at all, whether educational professionals know enough whether there is a problem with the child or whether there is a problem with the family. The court, the police in millions of cases... - I can bring a case from my own environment where the police refused to acknowledge that within school, the local Reformed priest molested children in Bible study. Well, what country do we live in if the police themselves are trying to stop this from coming out? ! I think we have a lot of work to do, and I would ask my fellow pro-government politicians to be positive about the Istanbul Convention. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-12-11-234	Thank you. Dear Parliament, A representative may now speak in a two-minute time frame for each group of representatives. I give the floor to Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, Jobbik Group.
u2017-12-11-235	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Jobbik is also committed to combating and eliminating violence against women. After all, on the world day of this, on 25 November we held a conference at the House of Representatives. At this conference, although all parties were invited, only the LMP participated, and despite the fact that János Lázár said in his reply to an immediate question that the Ministry of Justice would provide professional support for, for example, the development of legislation, they did not attend the conference despite our call. They believed that the EMMI was responsible for this issue. I would like to point out the responsibility of society for the fact that, unfortunately, these types of offences remain in much greater proportion in latex than in general, because the reactions of society affect the effectiveness of law enforcement. Not only am I saying this, but the prosecution's 2014 parliamentary report also states that such a social reaction to violence against women or the reaction of the immediate environment of the abused will also determine the effectiveness of law enforcement. That is why, as public figures, we also have a huge responsibility in our approach to such issues. It's wrong on the part of the government to say that it's a private matter for two people. It's not a private matter for two people. This phenomenon, as we have seen in recent times, is present in the art world, is present in sport, and is also present in politics, honourable Members. We must do everything together to reduce this. Whether the ratification of the Istanbul Convention is the best solution to this, or whether it should be done in some other way, is another issue. At the same time, we are in favour of inclusion in the series, as we certainly consider it suitable for discussion. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-11-236	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Ikotity, LMP Group.
u2017-12-11-237	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, I would like to begin by asking Mónika Dunai, President of the Ladies' Dignity Sub-Committee, to keep his promise, and in this session, the time is now very short, to convene the subcommittee's meeting on the subject of the Istanbul Convention. That is what has been said, and I think it has been recorded. The LMP supports the proposal because the government's action against violence is ineffective. We are still concerned that some 50 women die of abuse each year, and more than 300,000 women experience domestic violence every day. The government, on the other hand, is still more concerned with the ideological struggle than the safety of women and children. They are trying to make people believe that the treaty is a greater threat to families than violence. They're talking about the fact that there's no need for a treaty here, because the government is still doing a lot to protect the victims. Let's see what the government does. On 25 November 2017, on the World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, you announced the same 3 applications for HUF 2.8 billion in the EU as last year. They make promises every year, and then nothing happens. There are no new crisis centers anywhere, for example. Every year they say that they want to give special training to social workers, educators and policemen as widely as possible. Then why don't you? Why are they just talking about it? The Istanbul Convention would be a step forward in this precisely. It would not be possible to check the fight against violence with a Btk. amendment, but also to show something in prevention, in the expansion of the supply system and in the preparation of professionals. The LMP supports the proposal, still expects the government to clarify its position: ratify the Convention or withdraw from it in an unprecedented manner.
u2017-12-11-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group.
u2017-12-11-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I think it's good that we've come this far, and we can talk about how they understand that there is such a problem. Here I refer back to what my fellow Member István Ikotity said: 50 women are victims of domestic violence every year. Think of it as one per week, one per week, one per week; that 300,000 women are usually part of some level of abuse. Of course, we should never forget the children at a time like this. This always stays inside the front door of the apartment, doesn't get into the institutional system where they're not otherwise prepared to meet there, to deal with these cases. Therefore, we must prepare the population, of course, but of course we must also prepare the institutional system, including the police, family supporters, child protection, child welfare, which, I think, is not only a goal that is close to our hearts, but a simple obligation for all of us. It is our duty that our children grow up in an environment where they learn what is not right and grow up in an environment that is safe. Of course, we must prepare the institutional system for this. I'm not saying it was the best institutional system before. But one thing is certain: the protective service and the family support and child welfare service, which you have organised for other foundations, have been exemplary in Europe. Everyone was proud of how well this worked in Hungary. It's not working right now. You can do this right, it costs 9-10 billion forints. This is not a significant amount in the Hungarian budget. You spend more, I think, on less important things. It is worth signing this and supporting the institutional system - just for the sake of the ladies and children. Thank you. [[16.10]]
u2017-12-11-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz Group.
u2017-12-11-241	Thank you very much for the floor. My colleague Bangóna well quoted what I said, but what I said before, I mean on the Justice Committee, and what I said afterwards, she forgot to him. So you were right to say that this convention is actually attacking the traditional family model and raising gender philosophy to the law, but the traditional family model, and I said that there, by the way, doesn't include beating the wife, the child, or the husband. I told you that we agree, by the way, that we condemn any violence against anyone in any way, in any way, in any way, but that you tried to distort it afterwards. I also said at the committee meeting that we also consider it important that police, educators, psychologists and women in charge be properly prepared to prevent domestic violence, if it happened by accident, with regard to the responsibility of the perpetrator. I would add, by the way, I know how serious the police are about this, for example, although at times it is only revealed by the police commissioner's report in a closed session, that details are obviously not to be made public. So the agreement doesn't really add anything, the Hungarian State must, of course, do everything, and this is what we have been trying to do in the last seven and a half years to do everything to prevent domestic violence, help victims and condemn perpetrators, but we do not recommend that this resolution proposal be included in the series. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, who wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2017-12-11-243	I would like to read a detail from the minutes of a judicial committee meeting on 20 February 2017. Dr. Répássy, Róbert, said: "This includes, inter alia, the statements that the draft proposal to publish the text of the Convention has been drawn up. The preparation of the accession will continue in an administrative consultation, the draft has been published in the course of the administrative consultation, so that civil society organisations have the opportunity to comment on it. This means that government preparation has entered the final stage in administrative language. Technically, the presentation of the publication was prepared by the Minister of Justice for his part. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. What happened since February? At that time, the Minister of Justice answered a written question. Congressman Robert Répássy himself said so at the Justice Committee meeting. What's happened since then? Why have they changed their minds since then? The Minister has prepared that the Istanbul Convention can be ratified. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened in your mind since the day you didn't want to support it. We are constantly seeing either in immigration policy or in any other policy that you support violence itself. You can say that you did everything you could. Congressman, one statistic has not improved. One million women in Hungary suffer domestic violence every day. And you know what the worst part is? That when these women are beaten so to speak, their own children watch, and not only the woman herself suffers the violence, but also the child itself. And in most cases the child, the abused child, becomes an abuser as an adult. The question must be asked [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] If you continue to support the abusers. Yeah. Thank you.
u2017-12-11-244	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Mónika Dunai has asked for the floor on a point of order. At this moment, I cannot give you the floor, Congresswoman, but at a later date. [[Mónika Dunai: Thank you very much.]] Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide the 2010 CIV on freedom of the press and fundamental rules for media content. Act CLXXXV of 2010 on media services and mass communication. T/18380. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Cultural Committee. First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Dóra Dúró, within a five-minute timeframe.
u2017-12-11-245	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, A few months ago, we had to turn to the National Assembly and the Cultural Committee with a similar proposal, because it is an amazing, top-directed, conscious flood of lies that will happen to Jobbik over the past one or a half years, which makes it clear that we need to amend the law. We have won over 80 redress lawsuits over a year against various media that belong to the interests of Lőrinc Mészáros, Árpád Habony and Andy Vajna. It is clear, then, that this is not a journalistic mistake, but a conscious political tactic, a strategy aimed at weakening Jobbik by various lies. This could not be a problem in itself, or it could be said that if something like this happens to someone, they should go to court and they could enforce their own right through the application of the law. However, this is no longer true in Hungary either, since these media do not make corrections without taking into account court judgments that are legally final. This can be done because enforcement rules and media rules in Hungary are such that even if we receive a final court ruling that we are right, if these different press products do not give up for months, nothing will happen, and even the injured party will have to pay money and enforcement fees in order for something to happen at all from the point of view of correction. But now this proposal concerns an improved version of the lie, if you will. Because not only do the various media do they not bring down correction, but even if the court says it is not true in a particular case, it does not bother them and bring the same lie down again. So, for example, the Origo and the Ripost, which lead in this lie, describe the sky as green. And the court says no, the sky is blue, please publish the Origo and the Ripost correction. Even if they publish the correction, they will not be disturbed, and in two weeks they will rewrite that the sky is green, regardless of the final judgment that this is not true. Then we'll have to reopen the procedure in the same case, it'll be months before we can enforce our truth, we'll have to go back to the whole process, and the rest, and the rest. This proposal proposes that this should not be the case, so as to allow the Media Council to impose a fine on that medium in the event of the re-communication of the facts involved in the Court's judgment, since this would make enforcement much more effective and that these would not happen. Ladies and gentlemen, We talk a lot about the rules of electoral law applicable to elections from the rules of procedure to the rules of substantive law, but this practice, which these media carry on, defines and influences the outcome of the elections rather than even where the boundaries of the respective constituencies are drawn. The fact that, for a year and a half before the election, they are so consciously, financed by public money, they lie from above against the largest opposition party, the largest opposition party, shows that you believe that you would be left behind in a fair competition. Why is it necessary to maintain these extremely ill-quality rags and press products from billions of public money, to publish public advertisements here, also to fund them, and to launch a campaign of slander directed from above, knowingly, specifically against Jobbik? [[16.20]] It's clear to me that you're doing this completely consciously, running it from the Ministry of Antal Rogán, in fact. So we are asking you, although we do not have much hope in this regard, because these extremely bad rules are in your best interest, so that this can be done, but I am asking you, if you have a conscience, to support this proposal so that we can start the elections in 2018. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-11-246	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You can now make two-minute speeches by one representative per group of Members. I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group.
u2017-12-11-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Why should the law on freedom of the press and fundamental rules on media content and on mass communication be amended? Well, just because we were very far removed from the time when they described the whole topic of freedom of the press, let us say, Bertalan Szemere at the county assembly in Borsod in 1845, that the most important thing to do is freedom of the press, which is to assume freedom and national development; or I would refer to Ferenc Deák, who said that if it were up to me, there would be only one paragraph of the press law: you must not lie! Well, that's what you're talking about here on the pro-government side, and the filth you're funding every day in a very brutal way. If we return to these great ancestors, they also said that freedom of the press is the vault confirming the whole constitution. But it would be nice if this were the case in Hungary. What is happening, however, is that your chosen people, who have been capitalized and stuffed with public funds, namely the Hungarian people, the Hungarian taxpayers' money, made billionaires, have read, say, Bernard Goldberg, the former chief correspondent of CBS, the work entitled "Médiahazugságságságságságok" or Udo Ulfkott's composition entitled "Private Journalists"; and they are not viewed as some kind of horrific example, but they stick to them as some kind of guiding thread, and they practice, based on the horrifying examples described there, what we see here every day, and we can experience on our own skin, especially as a better parliamentary representative or politician. This should be changed, so we ask and even demand that this media pollution be put to an end in this form. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. Mátyás Firtl intervenes.]]
u2017-12-11-248	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz Group.
u2017-12-11-249	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group does not support the inclusion of this proposal, this bill, in a series of subjects. We have already explained our professional position in this regard in the past, when the author also submitted an amendment to the law for the same purpose. Our position hasn't changed since then. These situations are governed by the law on judicial enforcement. Such details should not be addressed in the Media Act as a framework law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-250	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if the factions want to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask the rapporteur, Mrs President, if she wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2017-12-11-251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, What Mrs Mónika Dunai said here is simply not true, and this proposal is not affected. The fact that the situation is similar with regard to the declaration of correction, its actual publication, does not mean that it is legally something else. This proposal is not subject to implementing rules. This proposal is independent of whether or not that particular press product has published or not published the correction. I merely refer to the fact that, if there is a final court ruling, no further lies concerning the fact of the judgment can be published, or that, if published, the Media Council will be fined; it will be able to impose a fine between HUF 10 and HUF 100 million. So the professional arguments that you have said at the committee meeting, and here too, to which you refer, simply do not stand up, because this proposal has nothing to do with the implementing law. You might as well talk about the following proposals, which are decided here by the Parliament, that they should be regulated elsewhere or that they are not supported because they are included in financial laws. No, Congresswoman, this is only a media issue, it is only a response to the phenomenon in the press, so you are not in favour of this because of professional arguments, but because your political strategy is part of the top-up, conscious lying to Jobbik. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-11-252	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, Mrs Mónika Dunai asked for the floor on a point of order. Are you going to step away from her, Congresswoman? [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2017-12-11-253	Thank you very much. I will be very brief, because I really wanted to address the previous agenda on a point of order. I didn't hold that thought, but if it's possible, I'll give you this one thought in the context of this agenda. It was not fair on the part of my fellow Member, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, that, when there was no opportunity for any group to speak, he asked further questions in this situation, which there was no chance of reacting to. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-254	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. There is a debate on the report before the final vote on the legislative amendments to the extension of young people's start-up support and on the proposal for an amendment before the final vote. The government referral is T/17997. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Proposal for an amendment by the Legislative Committee before the final vote T/17997/12. I, and T/17997/13, before the final vote. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-12-11-255	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is the House Rules 53. T/1799 on the amendments to the law on the extension of early life support for young people. Bill No. 1. The committee's report before the final vote and the amendment before the final vote are set out in Annex 10/2014 on certain house rules. Parliamentary resolution 53. By 26 votes in favour, with 3 abstentions. The amendment before the final vote does not contain any substantive changes, but only provides for amendments of a codification nature. Dear House, As part of the action plan to encourage children, this amendment aims to extend the possibility of starting-up support and opening the Start account to Hungarian children who do not live in Hungary, which contributes to the survival and growth of Hungarians across the border. Ladies and gentlemen, In the interests of this nation-sustaining endeavour, I would ask my honourable fellow Members to support the proposal tomorrow. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-256	Dear Parliament, The speeches will now take place within a five-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2017-12-11-257	Mr President, Dear House, I must point out that there is no circumstance that Jobbik's faction does not support the broadening of the benefits for young people's start-ups. So I must make it clear that if it is about the growth of the Hungarian national body in separated parts, in cross-border areas, Jobbik's vote can only be supportive. My personal opinion is the same. There must be no counter-argument to this. [[16.30]] At the same time, we should also talk about the fact that similar proposals apply not only to our Hungarian brothers living in torn parts, but also to Hungarians living abroad, where I lived at the general debate stage with a call that both Hungarians working there and the young people living here would have countless opportunities for this government to start their lives, not only to live with some allowances or extensions in terms of the Start account or baby bond, but, in my view, the problems of home creation would be the most important one, and we can now safely say that the crisis of home creation will be dealt with. After all, we see that both here in Hungary and in the separated parts and in the Hungarians working outside, let us say, in Western Europe, the fact that the cost of housing difficulties, rents and the acquisition of independent property puts the Hungarian families at a decades disadvantage, and this decade-old disadvantage typically leads to at least one child's less commitment. For if we start only from the old studies of Mária Kopp, then Hungary has a real hidden resource, and this is that Hungarian women, fortunately, want to give birth to much more children than, say, their fellow Western Europeans, but at the same time we see that there is still a huge gap between the number of desired children and the number of children born into the world. And if we look at this year's data, we can see that, despite all attempts, Hungary's population loss has unfortunately not slowed down, the rate of weight loss has not stopped compared to so far, and the rate of weight loss is unfortunately as brutal as it has been before. This is true, although I do not dispute government experiments, I do not dispute the system of family tax incentives, and I would even like to extend them, but I would like to draw the government's attention to the fact that it is impossible to increase living births in Hungary simply and only through material devotion. Three factors must work together to create more children in Hungary. One is the family support system and the given forints. I believe that, although we may have professional debates in this area, positive movements have started, we should not discuss them. The second is predictability, which is not typical in Hungary at all, whether it is a small businessman and a tax system, whether it be a sick person and health care, whether it be a pensioner and a relaxed retirement age, and the unpredictability spans all of Hungary. And we must also say that the third segment, which must be, is that someone wants to stay in Hungary and want to have children here, and that is the predictability of home creation. And here you should not just think about owning real estate and getting it, say, using a CSOK discount, you cannot help noticing that there is a huge rent shortage in Hungary, that young people are unable to pay or produce rents. And I am thinking not only of students in higher education, for whom this is a huge and daily problem, but also of those who start their own lives, where appropriate, of having children would be the result of an independent start in a few years, but many make the decision that they would rather try their luck abroad. Therefore, in summary, I would like to emphasise that I am in favour of this proposal, so I think that everyone who represents Hungarian interests will support this. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of the government to the fact that there are solutions that we could all accept in a way that is superior to parties. If, say, any party in the Hungarian Parliament would initiate a rental program, I would certainly support it, I can indicate the budgetary resources that are necessary for this. The National Asset Manager should not be called a rental program, as one of their State Secretary has done; we should increase the number of new-built apartments, or bring back thousands and tens of thousands of tens of thousands of apartments to restore a market balance after reviewing the empty housing stock. And if that happens, there will be about tens of thousands of people left in Hungary who would otherwise leave. And they will have children in Hungary, and this is in our primary interest and cannot be the object of the battle of the parties. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-12-11-258	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking my fellow Members on the part of the factions whether there is an intention to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws concerning the official supervision of the financial intermediary system and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. Government referral T/18317. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-12-11-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/18317 on 7 December 2017. The Commission submitted a bill amending certain laws concerning the official supervision of the financial intermediary system, submitted by 22 votes in favour, 3 against and without abstention, an amendment and a summary report. The summarised amendment contains the proposals proposed by the Economic Committee, which are mainly text-focused, codification-like and substantive, which our committee has supported without intention to amend. The purpose of the legislation contained in the bill is to create a legal basis for the removal of the financial supervisory authority procedures of the Hungarian National Bank from the scope of the General Administrative Regulation Act. The aim of the proposed bill is to achieve more effective regulation in order to enable the Hungarian National Bank to intervene as soon as possible in emergency situations in order to protect the interests of customers, especially consumers. I therefore ask you to agree to the adoption of this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-12-11-260	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask the Secretary of State whether she wishes to speak as rapporteur at this stage of the debate. [[Agnes Hornung Anna nodds.]] Yeah. Madam Secretary, you have the floor in a ten-minute time frame. We will, of course, provide you with the time frame left for closing. You have the floor, please.
u2017-12-11-261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As Congressman said, the purpose of this bill is to ensure consistency between the Act on Administrative Rules and the procedure of the National Bank of Hungary, and a significant part of the TAB modifiers were codification and other clarification in order to ensure consistency with other legislation and the internal legislation of the bill. A single amendment can only be considered as content, which fully ensures compliance with the law on general rules of electronic administration and trust services in respect of all the activities of the Hungarian National Bank, which are now under the authority of the National Bank of Hungary. The reason for this is that, when verifying the data provided by the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, electronic contact with customers does not differ depending on whether or not the client falls within the jurisdiction of the institutions supervised by the Magyar Nemzeti Bank. Dear House, Thank you very much for your cooperation, and I would like to ask you, together with the amendments, to adopt the bill in the final vote tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-12-11-262	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I will inform the Secretary of State, there is an eight-minute time frame for the closing. [[Anna Hornung: Thank you very much.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate, as there is a time-frame discussion. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. Of course, because there has not been a debate, obviously the problems raised in the debate will not be answered. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[16.40]] Dear Parliament, Next, the 1990 XCIII on levies. Act and Act LXXVII of 2017 amending certain tax laws and other related laws Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The T/18539 submitted by the representatives of György Balla and László Kucsák, Fidesz. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I will ask Mr György Balla if he wishes to speak on behalf of the authors. [[On the sign of György Balla:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Mr President, there is a ten-minute time frame for this speech and the closing word.
u2017-12-11-263	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There was no proposal to amend our bill tabled jointly with my fellow Member, so I really do not want to describe the necessity of the proposal for a long time, because I think the opposition has not found anything wrong with it, so it has not tabled an amendment. I would rather have asked the opposition and asked them eloquently to support it with their vote in the vote tomorrow, but since I see an opposition representative in the Chamber right now, I would not have wasted the time of my fellow members of the Government. So there's nothing more to talk about, there's no one to convince, Mr. President. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-264	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Dear Parliament, I will ask if the Secretary of State wishes to speak on behalf of the Government in the time frame available. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2017-12-11-265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government supports the amendment of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-266	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. I am asking my fellow Members if they wish to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. As there has not been a debate, my fellow Member, I think, does not want to take advantage of the opportunity to respond to unspoken positions. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to education, vocational training and adult education and related legislation and the summary amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/18309. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-12-11-267	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is the House Rules 46. T/18309 on the amendment of certain laws relating to education, vocational training and adult education and related legislation Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Parliament's resolution of 10/2014 on certain house rules. By 24 votes in favour, with 7 abstentions. The Commission's amendment closing the in-depth debate contains basically technical, codification and language positioning amendments. The Legislative Committee also adopted its own amendment, which amends the Act on National Public Education by allowing the National Farm and Farm of Menes and the public education institution it maintains to be subject to a non-profit company or a public education institution maintained by a non-profit company for the purposes of entitlement to the average wage-based budget support. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill aims to make the system of vocational training more flexible, to broaden the possibilities for practical training, and to ensure that changing or new training needs on the part of economic operators are implemented more directly and quickly. On this basis, I would ask my fellow Members to support this bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-268	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to speak on behalf of the authors. [[For signal:]] You're going to want to make a closing, Mr. Secretary, yes. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to speak. [[On the sign of Péter Cseresnyés:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-12-11-269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that Parliament's debate on the bill amending certain laws on education, vocational training and adult education and related laws has been successfully carried out with forward-looking professional proposals, in a supportive medium overall. The comments made in the general debate show that we consider the quality and effectiveness of the system of vocational training and adult education to be our priority, with a responsible view to its development. The views expressed during the debate also indicated that there was essentially consensus in the development directions targeted in this bill, in increasing the flexibility of the institutional system of vocational training and at all in the system of vocational training, in broadening opportunities for participation in company training, in strengthening the link between the economy and the training system, even if possible ways of implementing it are sometimes seen as different. It has also emerged that, regardless of party standing, we consider it essential to implement practical training in real labour market conditions and to demonstrate the expected future labour market needs. In the latter case, we expect emphasis on the new important role of sectoral skills councils under this bill. In the course of the debate, it became clear that the efforts and objectives to improve the system of vocational training and adult education were essentially understood by the speakers. The positive, forward-looking objectives of the proposals have been shown to me by nothing better than the fact that there have been no specific objections to them, and the comments raised have been more relevant to a wide range of related areas and themes. The support for the content of the bill was also indicated by the fact that the proposals of the Committee on Culture to close the detailed debate on the bill contained only technical, language-friendly clarifications to reinforce the original proposals, to facilitate their implementation and, almost without exception, to facilitate their implementation. The amendment received by its representatives has also been taken into account in the bill, making the legislation more precise and understandable. I would like to mention a few of the topics that arise in the professional debate with a summary character. In the course of the debate, it has been mentioned on several occasions why the service and service of the economy are the priority and not the long-term interests of young people and society. I have to say that this point is actually forced on me, because the two aspects are practically not separated from each other, because if the vocational training system cooperates with the economic system in a flexible manner, helping it to function, it will certainly have a beneficial effect on the students involved in vocational training, ensuring that the knowledge required by the economy is acquired, and thus helping them to thrive in life. It is also not in the interest of the economy to have a uniformly trained, inflexible workforce, as such workers are no longer able to cope in the long term in a rapidly changing market environment. With regard to the amendment of the VET Act, I was pleased to see the opinion of my fellow Members that making the vocational gymnasium system, primarily for technical training, more flexible is clearly a goal to be supported. [[16.50]] The choice and separation of so-called secondary education from graduation will help to develop further alternative learning paths adapted to the sector, providing an opportunity to better adapt the proportion of public knowledge and professional training content to the goals of the pupils concerned. My fellow Members also stressed the importance of practical training in real labour market conditions, which requires continuous improvement of the conditions for financing practical training, and an increase in the number of organisations that do not qualify for practical training in schools. This is why it is timely for the bill to open up additional benefits for small and medium-sized enterprises in the system of vocational training contributions beyond the existing forms of support. Furthermore, other organisations such as foundations, institutions operating as budgetary bodies and public institutions will be able to qualify for and recover the cost of practical training from vocational training contributions in addition to the apprenticeships. These efforts are linked to a provision for the uniform distribution of pupils among practitioners, for qualitative and non-quantitative training processes, which normally defines a possible number of 12 students per farming organisation. However, it is a fundamental error to consider this provision as a restriction, since, in the event of higher numbers of students, the Chamber of Commerce may at any time grant exemptions from this number to practical trainers with appropriate conditions. I have already pointed out that the discussions also raised the need for increased efforts in vocational training to demonstrate the expected future labour market needs. This objective should be ensured by a system of sectoral skills councils allowing economic operators to participate more directly in the VET regulatory system. The members of the future skills councils are from the first line and are in direct contact, having daily impact on economic, technological changes, industry 4.0 processes, thus effectively helping to understand, analyse the future skills needs of the sector, identify, define and prepare the necessary steps to be taken in the course of training. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that no amendments were tabled by my opposition colleagues, I believe that in the Commission's detailed debate they understood the policy ambitions which were still misunderstood or misinterpreted in the general debate, the differences between adult education and the form of education in schools, the essence of introducing shorter cycles of state-supported training. It is quite clear that the 30-hour training programmes mentioned as an example should not be part of the school system, which is divided into semesters covering hundreds of lessons. This training period is just enough to allow for further training, refresher training or awareness-raising in the enterprise's internal training sector in the field of adult education. These changes will help to ensure faster training and retraining of the workforce able to adapt to the changes, helping to resolve the tensions created by labour shortages and to significantly improve the effectiveness of State-supported training. Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, in summary, I can say that all agree with the professional direction and steps of the amendment of certain elements of the vocational training and adult education system as set out in this bill. Although my fellow opposition Members abstained from voting in committee, I am confident that they will support and vote in favour of this bill on the basis of what they have said. The objectives outlined, regardless of political origin, help social and economic development and the well-being of individuals, which is why I ask you to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-11-270	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2010 LXXXVII on the National Earth Fund. Act and the 2011 World Heritage LXXVII. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/18000. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-12-11-271	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 7 December 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2010 LXXXVII on the National Earth Fund. Act and the 2011 World Heritage LXXVII. T/18000. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were supported by 26 votes in favour and 6 votes against. The background material allowed for the transfer of codification clarifications, which our committee supported without debate. The bill seeks to give the State a pre-emptive right to purchase property in the world heritage area, with the exception of residential and agricultural land. Detailed procedural rules on the exercise of the right of pre-emption will be laid down by a government decree, subject to the authority of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the adoption of the bill in order to protect more fully the territories of our country with a world heritage status. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-11-272	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Minister of State, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[Nándor Csepreghy: Yes.]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-12-11-273	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Government, to thank you for the support expressed during the Commission's debates for the amendment. You have an amendment of the law before you today, and the government is asking for your support on an amendment that we believe will essentially end or finish the work that we have started in the area of heritage protection in recent years. Today, thanks to the good performance of the Hungarian economy, we are faced with numerous investments, but supporting investment and cutting red tape related to investment has never been and cannot be an obstacle to the protection of the built heritage or the natural heritage. Hungary's laws and laws at different levels protect natural and built heritage at different levels, and in some areas of Hungary they also enjoy the protection of the World Heritage Zone as the highest level of protection of natural and built heritage. The bill that lies before you creates a pre-emptive right for the state, both in terms of natural and built heritage, in the objective function, in the framework that the public interest in the area of heritage conservation can always overtake private interests. Developments and heritage investments over the past years have proved that this is the government that is truly committed to the matter of heritage conservation. Allow me to mention only one example that may be closest to you, the renovation and investment of Kossuth tér, which, I think, has earned this sign for a reason and was indeed able to create the main square of the nation. It is memorable that Kossuth Square was a national parking lot before 2010, but today it awaits Hungarians and our foreign guests as a community space that is truly worthy of the capital of a nation of more than ten million people. There are many other examples in the countryside and in the capital, which reflects a completely new approach in the area of heritage conservation. We now believe that the large investment dumping resulting from the economic upheaval makes a level that is mandatory or justified in the regulatory environment where the State acquires the right to pre-empt in order to ensure the public interest. However, this right of pre-emption applies exclusively to real estate which is not part of private housing and includes adequate guarantees, inter alia, in areas covered by agriculture. The right to pre-purchase must, of course, be sufficiently flexible, not hinder or hinder the functioning of different market transactions. [[17.00]] It should therefore provide adequate guarantees that, when the State appears as a third party in such a contract between two private operators, it is able to deliver an opinion with sufficient speed as to whether it really intends to exercise that right or to allow the sales contract between the two operators to prevail. In any case, through government offices, if we are talking about the area belonging to the natural heritage, by turning to the Minister of Agriculture, and if we are talking about property belonging to the protection of the built heritage or built heritage, then this right is directed towards the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, or towards the member of the Government, who is responsible for the protection of the heritage as a member of the Government. All the amendments made during the Commission's discussions were mainly technical amendments. These were widely accepted by the government. I think that there is no obstacle to the proposal being supported by Parliament as a whole, regardless of the political party or affiliation experienced in the Commission's work. I think I ask you, on behalf of the Government, to express your support for the Commission's work in the vote tomorrow. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-274	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'd like to inform you that you have five minutes and 20 seconds before closing. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. The speeches will now take place if there is a speaker on the part of the political groups. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. The Secretary of State has already explained the government's position. As there was no debate, no answers were obviously given. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports for the presentation of the villages of return and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. Mr Zsolt Becsó, Mihály Balla and Mr György Balla submitted by the representatives of Fideszes H/18302. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Bóna, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-12-11-275	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is the House Rules 46. H/18302 on the villages of return A proposal for a decision. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Parliament's resolution on certain house rules 46. It adopted it unanimously by 31 votes in favour. The amendment closing the in-depth debate contained codification clarifications, which were adopted by the Legislative Committee and did not submit its own amendment. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The peace treaty around Paris awarded Somoskő and Somoskőújfalu to Czechoslovakia. Thanks to the persistent struggle of the population, on 15 February 1924 the two settlements returned to Hungary. The proposal before us in memory of the superhuman struggle aims to give Somoskő and Somoskőújfalu the title of the village that has returned home. I would ask my fellow Members to contribute by their vote in favour to the worthy recognition of the struggle between the two settlements. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-276	Thank you very much. I salute my fellow Members. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Mihály Balla, who speaks on behalf of the rapporteur.
u2017-12-11-277	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On the initiative of our fellow Member, Mr Zsolt Becsó, we presented our proposal for a decision on the villages of return. As a member of the county of Nógrád, I also think it is important that I thank you in the various committees, in the Committee for National Inclusion and in the Legislative Committee for the support we can vote on a round bill that will result in the celebration of Somoskő and Somoskőújfalu and the award of a title to the settlements and villages. At the time, the residents and two leading individuals, Dr. Géza Krepuska, are known throughout Europe as professors of ear-nose-burning medicine, and the director of the then-day Rimamurány-Salgótarján Vasmű Company, Lipthay B. Jenő, were supported by local residents, who made the request for feedback from the Hague International Court on 26 June 1922, and the 24th session of the League Council gave the two villages our country. This could have been done on 15 February 1924. This day is a common day for both settlements in the county of Nógrád and a holiday that has been considered important for many years now. After they receive this title, I think they will be placed in the line in which the city of Balassagyarmat, the city of Sopron, and as the bravest settlements, the villages of Kercasomor, Ólmod and two Vas county fidelity are already there, which have done so to preserve those pieces of land for Hungary. In view of the clarifications and proposals for amendments in the committees, we support them, as rapporteur, and I would also ask the House to support the proposal for a decision on the basis of the summarised amendments or on the basis of the summarised amendments. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-278	Thank you very much, Congressman Mihály Balla. I would like to inform you that at the end of the debate, you have 7 minutes and 15 seconds to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[For signal:]] Mr. Árpád Potápi State Secretary says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-12-11-279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, On the government's side, I can say that we naturally support the Parliamentary resolution proposal. I think, and we believe, that historical events that have not happened without precedent in just a hundred years may still be a reason for us to be able to deal with these events and these years. In any case, we can appreciate the settlements, the people, the communities that lived at the time, we can safely say historical personalities and unknown people whose names we may be able to learn or learn from these decisions, whose memories we need to keep. In contrast to our contemporarys and ancestors living at that time, they tried to do the impossible when the country's army was decommissioned, when this country was repressed into full apathy, yet there were settlements, villages and cities that didn't calm down into the unchangeable and made their own efforts to get back to Hungary. They have often undertaken armed conflict, committed retaliations, agreed not to care what the consequences would be, but they will definitely ask for their return to Hungary. This was the case with Balassagyarmat, as was the case with villages of Croatian nationality in Western Transdanubia, so was the case with Sopron, and so was the case with Somoskő and Somoskőújfalu. [[17.10]] It has been nearly a hundred years, but I think that this hundred years is a great time, but we must not forget these events, we must not forget these people, and we must definitely keep them in the memory of the nation. So we strongly recommend that the Parliament adopt the resolution proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-280	Thank you, Secretary of State Potápi. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated National Assembly Committee. It is now up to the Members' speeches on the agenda in time-frames. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I'll give the word to the one who comes forward. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman Mihály Balla.
u2017-12-11-281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I really have nothing to do here in this debate but to conclude by thanking everyone for their support, regardless of party standing, on the initiative of my fellow Member Zsolt Becsó and on our joint initiative. I think that with these two settlements in Nógrád, Somoskőújfalu and Somoskő, you can now rightly wear the title that was earned by the local town nearly a hundred years ago, we could also say that it is a case of smartness, local skill and local courage. I think, as Mr Secretary of State has said, these two settlements will fit into the line on Hungarianism, national self-awareness, patriotism and patriotism. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-282	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Commission, Member. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of the laws relating to administrative bureaucracy and simplification of certain administrative procedures and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/18320. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-12-11-283	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 7 December 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of the law on administrative bureaucracy and simplification of certain administrative procedures T/18320. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were supported by 22 votes in favour, 5 against and 1 abstention. An amendment was adopted during the procedure of the Legislative Committee. As a result of the amending proposal, it is necessary to provide for a tax exemption for the granting of a driving licence for young people in category B, i.e. driving a car. The aim of the bill is to make administration simpler and more efficient in order to reduce red tape and reduce red tape. To this end, the proposal proposes to amend 43 laws, of which only a few. The proposal provides, inter alia, for direct access to the public property registration map database to the forestry authority as regards rules on official registers. Furthermore, direct electronic access to the higher education information system will be simplified for the authority in family support cases. The proposal substantially amends the Company Procedure Act and the essence of automatic decision-making is introduced in specific real estate and fisheries management procedures. Thank you for your attention. Please support the bill with your vote tomorrow. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-284	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. Secretary of State Zoltán Kovács, are you at the end of the debate? [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: End of debate.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll ask who wants to comment in the right time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I am now giving the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary.
u2017-12-11-285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It may not be a coincidence that there has been no big debate or even any debate about this proposal, since it was already apparent in the general debate that the bill was supported in many respects. The opinion of the Legislative Committee was presented by our fellow Member Imre Vas, who basically summarized what is the new red tape reduction fourth package, which, in addition to the 265 laws so far - we have now practically exceeded the amendment of 300 laws - makes the legal jungle easier for citizens and businesses, in which we still need to adjust today. There have been a lot of steps in this, and I really just want to go back to the past in a few sentences. This also reduces bureaucratic burdens, tax exemptions, and reductions in administrative service charges of nearly HUF 14 billion per year for citizens and businesses, shorter deadlines, simpler procedural rules, which will then appear permanently in practice in the so-called Ákr. as of 1 January. One of the important elements in this bill is that relations between authorities should be smoother, saving time. It has reduced not only financial burdens but also administrative burdens, and we are constantly reviewing this. This also includes a significant sectoral amendment to the Government Decree, which will also help to address these issues. And, of course, it also requires a background process operating support that makes it more flexible and requires the administrative authority to be equipped with more appropriate tools. There is a need to obtain fewer documents from citizens and to have access to different registration systems, such as the higher education information system, which has always been a problem for university students or colleges, where appropriate, that a certificate has always been required in the family support system, which now results in direct access. We're bringing together official records. There were parallel records, not all the data was in them exactly, and we hope to correct them with this, since these parallel records contained the same data. We are also amending the company procedure for simplified winding-up. This can also be conducted by senior officials themselves, and it is not always necessary to go to the court with any administrative burden or change, for example, if a home address changes, it had to turn there, and from then on this can be done with the amendment, thus contributing to a business-friendly environment. [[17.20]] Automatic decision-making required in civil proceedings, issuing an official certificate or issuing a certificate - issued by the authority within 24 hours. I think this is a completely customer-friendly proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you to support the bill in the final vote tomorrow, as it is a progressive, forward-looking bill that helps citizens and businesses. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-286	Thank you, Secretary of State Kovács. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the Hungarian Sports Day, the Hungarian Parasport Day and the Hungarian Student Sport Day and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. Dóra Dúró, György Szilágyi, Jobbik; László Földi, KDNP; Ikotity István, LMP; Zsolt Nyitrai, Imre Vas, Fidesz; Attila Mesterházy, MSZP, representatives submitted H/18211. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Tapolczai, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-12-11-287	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The Legislative Committee discussed the Hungarian Day of Sport, the Day of Hungarian Parasports and the Day of Hungarian Student Sports H/18211. A proposal for a decision. The Committee adopted the summarised amendment and the summary report by 25 votes in favour, with three abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the background of the Cultural Committee and the amendment proposed by Jobbik. The amendment proposed by Jobbik is about determining the date of entry into force of the decision, in line with the provisions of the law on legislation, to enter into force on the day following publication. I am pleased that the governing parties supported the amendment that I tabled, which would make the day of Hungarian deaf sports on 2 June, given the traditions of deaf sport, and given that the second largest international event in the sport of disabled people is deaflimpia. I also made my arguments in the general debate. Given that sport belongs to everyone, I would ask my fellow Members to unanimously support my proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-288	Thank you very much, Congressman Tapolczai. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. Mr Secretary of State indicates that it will be at the end of the debate. Interventions by Members shall take place within the time limits on which the agenda is to be held. I'll ask if there's a speaker or a speaker. [[There's no candidate.]] If not, you have the floor, Mr Secretary, because the debate is closed.
u2017-12-11-289	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Firstly, I would like to thank the Members who supported this proposal for a resolution. At the time, the first Orbán government supported sport because it considered it important to appreciate sport financially and differently. It is no coincidence that the Hungarian Sports Day, the 6th of May, has already been of particular importance in the life of the sport. But our fellow Members presented the proposal to include Hungarian Parasports Day and Hungarian Student Sport Day in the calendar, as a warning to Hungarian society, as well as honoring parasportists, student athletes, coaches, as well as relatives, parents, who invest a lot of energy in this wonderful activity, and from the other side, they bring great joy and success to the country. However, I must say that I thank you very much for this amendment, the most important part of which is what Mr Gergely Tapolczai mentioned, that besides the day of Hungarian sports, the day of Hungarian parasports and the day of Hungarian student sport, even the day of Hungarian deaf sports will be included in the calendar on 2 June. I would just like to make a short detour; we do not have any left-wing colleagues here. Unfortunately, in 2009, there was a very bad gifting or so-called medal, which was a very serious insult to our deaf athletes. This decision may be a certain compensation for them, making up for some of the very bad left-wing thinking that led them to be humiliated in the pay. Once again, I thank Gergely Tapolczai for his presentation, his proposal, the decision of the Legislative Committee, and it is perfectly natural for the Government to support this amendment and the amendments. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-290	Thank you very much for the addition, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Following is the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/18296 submitted by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-12-11-291	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities on 7 December 2017. T/18296. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted unanimously by the Committee with 23 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The Legislative Committee did not make any specific amendment, so the summarised amendment contains only the amendment closing the detailed discussion of the Judicial Committee. The amending proposal makes an amendment of a legal nature in only one point. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment before us will facilitate the exercise of the fundamental rights of nationalities by proposing amendments to the practical issues that have been raised since the adoption of the law on the rights of nationalities. In view of this, I ask you to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-292	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[János Fuzik: Yes.]] János Fuzik, a Slovak ethnic advocate, indicates that he is. You have the floor.
u2017-12-11-293	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities and the national minority advocate in Parliament have competence in matters that affect the rights and interests of nationalities living in Hungary. Of course, the law on the rights of nationalities, legislation, is such a matter. [[17 .30]] This is why the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary has submitted a legislative proposal to this law as a separate Commission motion. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. As I pointed out in the general debate on the legislative amendment proposal, next year will be 25 years since the adoption of the first national law on the rights of national and ethnic minorities in Hungary after the regime change, LXXVII of 1993 on the rights of national and ethnic minorities. Law. After that, 12 years had to wait until 2005, until the first amendment of this law was made. Then another six years passed when he was born in 2011 under a new name, a new nationality law, CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law. When national minority advocates took part in the National Assembly in 2014, according to the Fundamental Law, and began their work and their participation in the work of the National Assembly, they immediately came up with a bill-modifying proposal that modified only voting rights issues. So, in fact, three years have passed since the law came before the Parliament with a view to amendment. But the world, life, has changed. In the meantime, the reform of public education was carried out, besides the national minority self-governments, the local minority self-governments appeared, the public education institutions became a state reserve, so the transfer and transfer took-over also changed radically. We therefore felt the need for this law to follow life, and indeed, as an organic organism, it serves the interests, rights and lives of nationalities in Hungary. This is a very extensive nationality code of nearly 300 paragraphs; its amendment, which, according to our own committee's motion, is now only 30 paragraphs, is very varied. In addition to this public education and education area, it deals with cultural issues, municipal issues, electoral issues, property issues. Accordingly, the preparatory work was also very extensive, diverse and time-consuming. For two years, our committee has worked for this amendment of the law, an amendment of the law. We have worked with six specialities, primarily the Ministry of Human Resources, the State Secretary for Church, Nationality and Civil Relations, who oversees the area of nationality. In addition to the six wallets, we received many professional help from the Parliamentary Office, with various offices, the National Election Office, the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. This was how the legislative amendment was made, which the Parliament discussed in a general debate on 30 November. It was a great satisfaction to us, on the one hand, to recognise the representatives of the parliamentary groups involved in the debate as regards the work done, and, on the other hand, to expect their support in the adoption of the bill. The designated Judicial Committee, as already mentioned in the report of the Legislative Committee, submitted a single legislative codification amendment. This is an important amendment, however, because it is a legal but precise proposal, and it clarifies a transitional provision which will be of great importance in the near future from the point of view of institution maintenance, if the law enters into force. We thanked the unanimous support of the Legislative Committee, and we trust that tomorrow, in the final vote, in the decision-making process in Parliament, because it is a fundamental law, we will receive the same support and our legislative efforts will be effective. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-294	Thank you very much for János Fuzik's contribution on behalf of the authors. I would like to point out that at the end of the debate, you have 4 minutes and 10 seconds left to say the possible closing word. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to comment. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltés.
u2017-12-11-295	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On the one hand, I thank the Legislative Committee for the amendment. We totally support it, of course. Thank you very much for the presentation by the committee of nationalities, with this addition, I very much hope that tomorrow the Parliament will really adopt it by a two-thirds majority. I would just like to say, for the record, that last week, the left-wing, especially socialist, MEPs missed our representatives of Gypsy origins on the one hand; I would like to say that they are here. Mr. Speaker, here you are. Only the left lines are completely empty. Interestingly, they are not so interested in this debate. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Turn around! There's no Florian Wolf here.]] I didn't mention the better Members. Thank you very much for your work. Mr. President, thank you very much. There's no reason to respond to Jobbik. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-296	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. [[There's a lot of noise in Jobbik's benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Mátyás Firtl, KDNP.
u2017-12-11-297	Poštovani Predsjednice! Poštovani Zastupneci! Sad dasam postdragani, zdravomir vaskom jaziku vaskom dragom navom vecheru. The parliament of Pustemi da kod jedan hrvatski narodnosti zastupnik madarsko. Pozdravljam iron! The song of the sad is mađarskom jezikum! And further in Hungarian. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and Gentlemen, Allow me to continue in Hungarian. That was the thought of my previous sentence. Allow me to speak as a representative, not a spokesperson, of a Hungarian parliament of Croatian nationality, and to welcome the opportunity to comment on a debate that is here in the Hungarian Parliament as a Member of Parliament. As far as the opinion of the minority committee is concerned, I can say that I can strongly support the idea that the Slovak Member has just said, but the German, Bulgarian or any of the ethnic advocates present could have said that in the Hungarian Parliament, I feel there is unity that if nationalities spoke, they would speak as a nationality - I look at József Varga - we would say in Parliament, whatever faction we belong to, in this case we belong to the KDNP or the Fidesz faction, or if we were part of the Jobbik fraction, because there was some polarity here earlier, then we can say that we are all interested, as we have stated in our constitution, that we must treat nationalities in Hungary as a matter of nationality in constitutional law. If I am speaking to him as a Croatian national, I must say that we fully agree with what Mr President has just said that we are interested in what the nationalities themselves, through their local government, are expressing for themselves. The Hungarian political system does not really want to interfere with what the law gives you as an opportunity, and what we now provide for you on the basis of legislation. This is the essence of the local government, because you can best represent the interests of the national authorities if there is consensus in the Hungarian Parliament. [[17.40]] So far, the minority committee for the Hungarian Parliament and - what the Fidesz-KDNP government has done since 2010 on the basis of constitutional law violations - the Hungarian nationalities have been granted, in the manner set out in the Hungarian Constitution, the Hungarian Constitution, that the nationalities are a legislative part of Hungary, which we have provided, of course, when you make demands and expectations, and so far, all the proposals you have put forward by the committee of nationality have had virtually unanimous support in the Hungarian Parliament. Therefore, I can say what you have said now, on behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party, but on the part of the Fidesz-KDNP, on the part of the Alliance, I can also say to you that we fully support what the national authorities support. I can say this once again - with this name written on the board, that Mátyás Firtl, who belongs to the German minority on the one hand, and belonging to nationality, but also belonging to the Croatian national minority self-government, and in the national parliament, in the Hungarian Parliament, as a Member of Parliament, on the other hand, I can say for the future - that we Members of Parliament are interested in the fact that Hungarian ethnicities, wherever they belong, we are interested in ensuring that the representation of nationalities in Hungary is properly supported. Precisely at a time when, unfortunately, we are witnessing what is happening in Ukraine in connection with the national minority language law. That is why I ask the Hungarian Parliament to support the proposal that the representatives of nationality have published here on the basis of a proposal from the committee on nationality. I ask for your support in the future for the benefit of nationalities. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-298	Thank you very much. I'm gonna ask... I'm not gonna ask anymore because I can see József Varga's name on the monitor. I give the floor to Congressman József Varga, Fidesz.
u2017-12-11-299	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to express the position of Fidesz in a few words. On the one hand, we welcome the amendment of the law. I would like to address some elements of the legislative amendment, which has a positive impact on both the Hungarian Roma and the entire minorities in Hungary. One of the most important elements of the law amendment is that at last this law will allow national minority self-governments, national governments, to indicate, on the basis of the law, what tasks they must perform, and this will finally be named. This has been one of the most serious problems of the last 25 years that they have not been able to ensure their operation by law. I also consider it a very important element that the law is open to the fact that not 100 percent of minorities have to participate in a school to enable the minority to take the right steps, so 75 percent will be enough. I would also like to clarify that there has not been such cooperation in this Parliament under the law, and this ensures the minority policy of Hungarian society and compassion for the minority. I do not want to give a campaign speech, but I cannot ignore the fact that in the last eight years the support of minorities has tripled since 2010. In 2010, the Hungarian state spent about 3 billion on minorities en bloc, and now we will reach 10 billion. Once again, I thank János Fuzik and the minority advocates for their work, and wish all minorities good luck and a happy, peaceful Christmas. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-300	Thank you very much, Congressman József Varga. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Fuzik, rapporteur for Slovak nationality. You have more than four minutes, Congressman.
u2017-12-11-301	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Vážený pán poslanec! -Akujem, že ste mi v chorvatskom meterineskom jazyku blahoželali a po.akovali! Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for recognising our work in Croatian language, and I thank all speakers for the words of appreciation on behalf of my fellow speakers, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. As Congressman Mátyás Firtl said, indeed, this is an important point of the local government that we take our own fate into our own hands. Of course, we did this in close cooperation with national national minority self-governments and their alliances, and we submitted our proposals for legislative amendments. Thank you very much, too, Mr József Varga, for his words of appreciation, of course, the mandatory public tasks have now been named in the amendment of the law at the request of the national minority self-governments and the local authorities, and it is obviously also easier to take over schools because not all children, but 75 percent of the children are involved in ethnic education or education. I trust that you will really support the fundamental law tomorrow. During the general debate, I would also like to thank Jobbik's representatives for their participation in the debate and, on the other hand, they assured us that they would support our efforts in the decision-making process, and I hope that the factions that are not present today will also support the aspirations of nationalities in Hungary in the vote tomorrow. In fact, I think we have now found a home in the benches of Parliament in the festive atmosphere and towards the end of the four-year term, not only because we have received significant political support, but also because the above-mentioned budgetary results have been obtained because, on the one hand, the government and, on the other hand, the parliamentary factions supported it unanimously. However, when we looked around, we could have often understood, as I would now speak with Mr Gyula Vantara, former mayor of Békéscsaba, in Slovak, and there were many others, and so would my fellow speakers in their own language. So thank you for your willingness to accept, thank you for your support, and I trust that this will be reflected tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-302	Thank you, János Fuzik, for the Slovak minority spokesperson. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2011 CXC on national public education. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. T/18297 submitted by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary The submission with serial numbers and the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. It says yes. I give the floor to German ethnic advocate Ritter Imre.
u2017-12-11-303	Thank you. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr President, Dear House, On 7 November 2017, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary presented the 2011 CXC on National Public Education to be discussed in this detailed debate. T/18297. Bill No. 1. [[17.50]] The Parliament held the general debate on 29 November 2017, and the legislative proposal for individual representatives did not come to the bill. At its meeting on 5 December 2017, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary discussed the bill at its meeting on 6 December 2017 and held a detailed debate on the provisions of the House Regulations 44-45. In accordance with the provisions of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. None of the committees made any further amendments to the bill and concluded that the provisions of the house rules contained in Article 44. It complies with paragraph 1 of Section 1. On the basis of the bill, the 2011 CXC on national public education. Article 8 (6) of the Act amends from 1 January 2018 so that the lower and upper limit of the nationality allowance is increased to 15 per cent instead of the current 10 per cent. The aim of the bill is to compensate for the shortage of national minority educators, which has created an increasing problem in Hungary's public education institutions in recent years, and to provide qualified professionals to the Hungarian nationalities. In order to maintain the minority educators on the field, to improve the appreciation of national minority teachers, the Government and the National Assembly in Chapter XX of the Act on Hungary's central budget for 2018, on the Ministry of Human Resources, chapter 20/56. It has already provided support for this purpose under the sub-heading "nationality grants'. At the same time, this support will allow for an increase in the number of participants in national education, the quality of training, and an increase in the nationality bonus. The increase in the national minority allowance from 1 January 2018 requires the amendment of the national minority education law submitted. This increase in national minority allowances, regardless of the maintainer, extends to all national minority teachers entitled to all national minority allowances. The bill has been dealt with in advance with the relevant wallets, the government, all parliamentary factions, and I therefore ask you with all due respect to support the T/18297. the adoption of bill No 1. Thank you for listening. Danke für ihre Aufmerksamkeit. Ich wünsche Ihnen frohe Weihnachten und einen guten Rutsch ins Neue Jahr!
u2017-12-11-304	Thank you very much for the German ethnic advocate Ritter Imre. I'd like to inform you that you have six minutes and 30 seconds left to say the closing word. I'm going to ask you now if anyone on the government's side would like to comment and speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltés.
u2017-12-11-305	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speakers! It is perfectly natural that the government has already supported the efforts to preserve nationalities. I would also like to thank Mr President, President János Fuzik, for his comment on the previous item, and I would like to add that the Fidesz representative, József Varga, also commented that, yes, we have made the greatest opportunity over the last seven years to triple the support of nationalities, and this covers all areas. Now, indeed, not out of borrowing, not out of debt, but because of good performance of the economy, good economic policy, and, of course, thanks to the diligence of the people, a new opportunity has been opened. This option, as Mr Vice-President, President of the Commission, said, is an extension of the nationality bonus, i.e. an increase from 10% to 15 percent, but for everyone who teaches and raises in this area. Thank you very much for helping us with this opportunity. I would like to point out that, after the opposition has not voted in favour of next year's budget, neither the socialists who are not here, nor the LMP that is not here, nor Jobbik who is with some Members, have voted in favour of this increase, they can correct this mistake a little tomorrow and side with this increase. We will see that, by the way, nationalities or at least some of them are supported orally and another part is attacked verbally and orally, which is, of course, totally unacceptable. We have 13 nationalities, and we want to achieve and support all 13 nationalities with this support. Thank you very much for the committee's presentation. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-306	Thank you, Secretary Soltes. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee for Culture did not draft a rapporteur, so now it is up to its representatives to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I'll see if anyone wants to comment. [[No signal.]] I don't see an application, so I'm closing this debate. I give the floor to the German ethnic advocate Ritter Imre, the author.
u2017-12-11-307	Thank you very much. I would like to join Mr President's closing words on the previous agenda. Thank you very much to the government, the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, for making its decisions possible in the last three and a half years, and also in 2018 before us, that Hungary's nationalities have made very significant progress. I thank the opposition factions, too, that, as this and the previous law, and as Mr Mátyás Firtl mentioned, all the legislative proposals submitted during the term, submitted by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, were adopted with virtually unanimous support from Parliament. I wish this good habit to the next parliament, and then I have nothing to do but..... I wish you all a blessed Christmas and a happy, productive New Year. Thank you very much.
u2017-12-11-308	Thank you very much for the closing of Imre Ritter, a German ethnic advocate. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2012 CLXXXV on waste. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/18313. a serial number and the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-12-11-309	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee2017. At its meeting on 7 December 2012, CLXXXV discussed waste. T/1831. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution of 24 February 2004 46. He voted in favour with 23 votes in favour, with 3 abstentions and 3 votes against. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the problem indicated by Jobbik at that time has been resolved thanks to the TAB negotiating phase. On the part of Jobbik, it was contested that the proposal did not address the problem of landfilling asbestos waste. On the contrary, the accepted summary amending proposal provides for the possibility of transporting or receiving hazardous building and demolition waste containing asbestos in a manner that prevents environmental hazard to the general public, without the need for specific waste management authorisation, so that specific costs are incurred. The amendment also helps to ensure that such waste is actually taken to the hazardous waste landfill by residents. [[18.00]] In view of all this, I would ask my fellow Members to support the proposal with the addition in the vote tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-12-11-310	Thank you, Congressman Vecsey. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment now. [[Zsolt V. Németh: No.]] He'll tell you later. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the rapporteur of the designated Committee for Sustainable Development, who is not present in this room, so I cannot give the floor. Minority? [[No signal.]] He's not here. The herring Anitas? He's not here. Benedek Sallai is not present. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I'll ask if anyone wants to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate phase is closed, and I am now giving the floor to Secretary Zsolt V. Németh, the rapporteur.
u2017-12-11-311	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Members present must have followed the discussion of the Waste Act, learned of the typically practical amendments, which I now mention in particular in relation to unpolluted soil, which has solved a multi-annual problem. In addition to a number of language-like amendments to the Legislative Committee, it has indeed proposed a major amendment to specific rules on asbestos waste affecting a wide population. This will allow the owner to transport asbestos waste by simple rules, not allowing the results achieved so far in the environment. We're talking roof slate, nothing else, not scattered asbestos or any other dangerous substance. This amendment also allows it to be delivered later on at points created with a programme, and we hope that the state will take over this at construction and demolition costs, and will thus be able to exempt the population from hundreds of thousands of HUF current disposal costs after the adoption of the programme. Thank you very much for your active participation in the debate so far, and I would like to ask you to continue to support the bill with your votes tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-12-11-312	Thank you, Secretary of State Zsolt V. Németh. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain agri-regulation laws to the general administrative statute and other purposes, together with the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal, follow up. The government referral is T/18567. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Galambos, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-12-11-313	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/18567 on 7 December 2017. The proposed amendment and summary report on the amendment of certain agri-regulation laws in conjunction with the General Administrative Regulation Act and for other purposes was submitted by the Committee with 21 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 3 abstentions. The summarised amendment includes the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the amendment adopted by the Legislative Committee complements the provisions of the Tax Act with the aim of applying to all new owners engaged in carrying out agricultural activities, irrespective of the form of land transfer tax exemption. The Committee also added proposals on the composition of the Mountain Council in order to ensure an equal representation of the wine and wine sectors in the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill submitted by the Government aims to amend 17 laws most technically, the common denominator of which is to include the necessary changes in the context of the entry into force of the General Administrative Regulation Act on 1 January. The amendment of the laws contained in the bill is, on the one hand, the professional experience and the legislative changes that have taken place in the meantime and the said Ákr. , CL on the general administrative procedure. It was necessary to ensure consistency with the entry into force of law. I agree with the opinion that Dr. István Nagy said in the general debate on the bill, in the closing of the general debate, that given the experience of agricultural subsidies so far, it was also necessary to establish a specific procedure in relation to Ákr., which, in any case, in a more modern way, expresses customer-friendly treatment as a necessary expectation, and I think that it is also in line with the interests of the farming community. Thus, the amendments, all that we have adopted at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, and all that the Committee on Agriculture has also adopted, will be submitted to Parliament in support of the adoption of the bill, and I would ask you to support the adoption of the bill with tomorrow's vote. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-12-11-314	Thank you very much, Congressman Dénes Pigeon. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if you'd like to speak now. [[Dr. István Nagy indicates no.]] Mr. Secretary of State says that we may have to do it later. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman János Pócs, Fidesz.
u2017-12-11-315	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As we have heard, the bill was supplemented with only codification clarifications during the Commission's debate. I will not let the LMP use the legal instrument of the amending proposal to make political accusations. I don't think we should make a property in a world heritage area, say, a hotel, just because LMP wants to recite one of their campaign slogans about who's stealing. I respectfully ask the House to support the amendment of the law. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-12-11-316	Thank you, Congressman János Pócs. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. Mr István Nagy, State Secretary, the rapporteur, is now indicating that he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-12-11-317	Mr President, Dear House, I would just like to take up my fellow Members' time by thanking them for their opinions and activities during the debate on the law and asking my fellow Members to support the adoption of the law tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-12-11-318	Thank you, Secretary of State István Nagy. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposal for a proposal for a change of law and the final amendment follow up. Government referral T/18310. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-12-11-319	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that on 7 December 2017 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/18310 on the rules on the change of laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by 27 votes in favour with 3 abstentions. [[18.10]] The Commission's amendment closing the in-depth debate basically includes language positioning and editing, as well as technical amendments, which have been accompanied by a substantive change. The change in substance is that the maximum value of the exchange fee that may be claimed in the event of a claim for reimbursement has been abolished in the course of the TAB amendment. The publication of the text of Decree-Law No 1 of 1965 declaring the 1930 Geneva Convention on International Conversion Rights and the text of the change-rights rules adopted on the basis of its authorisation is 1/1965. It is contained in a decree of the Minister of Justice. After more than 50 years of publication, it was time to adopt a new, uniform change-rights regime within the framework of the Geneva Convention, which meets the requirements of the modern age, in view of the changed circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support a bill adapting the use of the shifter to practice and market needs. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-320	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. The Secretary of State has indicated that the rapporteur does not wish to comment now. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Interventions by Members shall take place within the time limits on which the agenda is to be held. I'll ask if anyone wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see an application, so I'm closing the debate. The rapporteur does not wish to respond to this. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The 2017 XC on criminal proceedings follows a series of steps. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the entry into force of law and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/18316. on a serial number, the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-12-11-321	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 7 December 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2017 XC on criminal proceedings. T/1831 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the entry into force of law Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were supported by 22 votes in favour, 3 against and 3 abstentions. The bill submitted contained fundamental provisions which were excluded during the committee's proceedings. Jobbik said at the TAB meeting that he was staying, from which we concluded that we could not count on them even to support the bill submitted to ensure the coherence of the legal system. To sum up the proposal, the package of laws before us largely guarantees, through technical amendments, the transfer of the new criminal law to the legal system, thereby creating a uniform and consistent practice of law enforcement. On 13 June 2017, the Parliament adopted the 2017 XC on criminal proceedings. Law, which has introduced several new legal institutions and regulates them in a different way, is the one currently in force. it uses a different concept system from that of its own. In view of this, a number of sectoral laws need to be amended. The legislation contained in the proposal and the amendments to the new Article XXI The Code of Criminal Procedure, which meets the requirements of the 20th century, allows for the practical application of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Please vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-322	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. Mr Secretary of State, the nationalist, points out that he does not wish to speak now. The designated Judicial Committee did not present a rapporteur, but I give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon.
u2017-12-11-323	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities is the 44-45 House Rule. T/18316, which was carried out by T/18316. XC 2017 on criminal proceedings. a detailed discussion of the bill amending certain laws relating to the entry into force of law. CXXIII of 2016 on mediation in criminal matters. The Commission considers that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The amendment of the Act affects the use of nationality languages. According to the opinion of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary, the 2017 XC on criminal proceedings. T/1831 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the entry into force of law Legislative proposal No. XXIX is in line with the Fundamental Law. Article 2 of the Act on the Rights of Nationalities, CLXXIX, 2011 Act 5. § 1 and commitments entered into in the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages. The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities is the House Rule 32. § 2 has examined its provisions in its notification pursuant to paragraph 2 and has determined that they comply with the rules of the house. Paragraph 1 of this Article. The Committee did not comment on the amendments submitted nor did it intend to make any further amendments. The Committee did not submit an amendment closing the in-depth debate; the detailed discussion of the bill was held on 21 November 2017, with 12 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary proposes that the bill be adopted. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание! [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-324	Thank you, Mr Varga Simeon, for his statement on Bulgarian ethnicity. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask you who you wish to make use of your Members' speeches. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, End of discussion. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to state wealth and national financial services and the discussion of the summarised amendment are now in order. Government referral T/18311. on a serial number, the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. [[18.20]] The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-12-11-325	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is the House Rule 46. T/18311 on the amendment of certain laws relating to State property and national financial services Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. By 24 votes in favour, 3 votes against. Points 5, 11, 14 of the Commission's amendment closing the in-depth debate were not supported by the Legislative Committee because they were managed by the separate TAB amendment proposal. The other points, however, have been adopted, which include technical specifications as well as language positioning and editing changes. In its own amendment, the Legislative Committee tabled the following substantive amendments. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank can participate in financial cooperation initiated or supported by the European Union or its institutions or organisations operating with their shares. In view of the specific legal status of integration of cooperative credit institutions, the amending proposal provides for the possibility to consider the members of the integration and certain entities related to them as related enterprises in the context of the VAT Act, given that integration is in practice a financial group. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is based on the following three important changes. In the future, MFB, Hungarian Development Bank Zrt. will have the opportunity to provide startups and innovation aids through various investment fund and venture capital fund purchases. The operational management integration organisation of the savings cooperatives will also change in order to have organisational and operational rights that will enable cooperative credit institutions to operate in a long-term and secure manner. The third element of the proposal is that, in future, domestic postal cheques for payment of taxes, levies or duties require the issuer to indicate the indications on the basis of which it is possible to establish the level of due diligence of the client in the transaction. This will reduce the administrative burden for the Posta, but the regulation will continue to comply with EU law against money laundering and terrorist financing. Ladies and gentlemen, The provisions of this bill aim to strengthen the means of economic recovery, to ensure the long-term, predictable functioning of cooperatives and to reduce administrative burdens. In view of this, please support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-326	Thank you, Congressman László B. Nagy. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to take the opportunity to speak now. [[Dr. András Aradski: In the end.]] In the end. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary, MSZP.
u2017-12-11-327	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to make two brief points on state wealth and the issue of national financial services. It is well known that the task of the Hungarian National Asset Manager will continue to expand with the adoption of this draft law and the sale of residential properties at the National Asset Manager will begin. Technically, the MFB is starting to grow into one of the most important financial institutions, where Jeremie funds and other issues could be mentioned or opened. What is really the point of the matter is that after six years, the right to buy back is virtually lost by debtors, so the apartments are transferred to MNV Zrt. in this sense. The content issues behind these ideas hinder us from supporting this bill. Thank you very much.
u2017-12-11-328	Thank you very much, Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary. I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. Then I'll give the floor to the author, Secretary of State, András Aradski.
u2017-12-11-329	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The basic objective of the bill before us is to create a regulatory environment that allows for a system of instruments to help and support current government expectations in the field of national wealth and national financial services. The bill also contains provisions to fill the gap. I am thinking of the fact that, in relation to the members of the cooperative credit institution's integration and the relationship between certain entities associated with them in the context of ownership, the bill allows these organisations to be regarded as related companies. I think it is important to underline that as a result of the parliamentary work it has been possible for the Hungarian Development Bank Zrt. take part in financial cooperation initiated or supported by the European Union or by organisations operating with its share, by giving priority to and bearing in mind its development banking activities. This participation will facilitate the uptake of processes that will ensure our country's involvement in co-operations on the basis of the EU initiative, aimed at ensuring the targeted development of the region, already carried out by similar development banks and other organisations in the region. In the course of the Commission's work, we have introduced codification and language-rights clarification in the bill to establish more linguistic and legal coherence. And I would also like to thank the honourable committees for their high quality of supporting professional work, which has contributed to the technical addition, clarification and clarification of the text of the bill. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask you to support the summary amendment and the bill in the course of tomorrow's day. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-330	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of energy laws and related laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/18318. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-12-11-331	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 7 December 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of the laws on energy and related laws T/18318. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be submitted by the committee in accordance with Article 46 of the Rules of Procedure. It supported by 18 votes in favour, 4 against and without abstentions, including the proposals of the Economic Committee. To sum up, the proposal to amend a total of six pieces of legislation is that the most important of these is the amendment of the Nuclear Power Bill, which aims to allow the use of fuel bundles other than those authorised under existing permits to be authorised by the nuclear power monitoring body under a special conversion procedure. Only MVM Paks Nuclear Power Plant Ltd. will be able to submit such a permit. [[18.30]] The proposal also clarifies the scope of the administrative authorities responsible for the designation of the subsurface parts of nuclear installations and radioactive waste storage facilities as a safety zone and complements the administrative authorities involved in the construction procedures of the National Atomic Energy Office. The requirements for the official supervision of nuclear power are also clarified in the case of the Hungarian Defence Forces. Dear House, Mr President, Thank you for your attention.
u2017-12-11-332	Thank you, Congressman László B. Nagy. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[Dr. András Aradski on signal:]] At the end, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, May Other be Politics.
u2017-12-11-333	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This is a bill containing a thousand mines, it was not done by accident in the form of salad law, practically where we look in it, we find something that is now practically directly endangering the lives of Hungarian people. As part of the salad law, the government has attempted to change the rules governing the authorisation of nuclear investments. So far, it has been stated in the nuclear law that when granting new reactor blocks, the OAH has to ask its own experts of its own initiative, but the change would have allowed the investor to bring his own expert, practically questioning the principle of public independence and objectivity. Now, we are a member of the European Union and the Euratom Convention guarantees the safety of nuclear investments in the Community, so LMP has asked the European Commission a written question as to whether it complies with the provisions of the Convention. Let's be clear before you vote on anything here, yes or no. Interestingly, the government did not wait for the Commission to answer our question, and the draft amendment to the amendment that we have just discussed has already been published on the government website. According to this, the investor will continue to be the one to ask the expert, but the law precludes any, say, relative or business relationship between them other than the given assignment. I think it's still not sufficient to step back, but in any case, it's clear that there's still some kind of control that you're afraid of here in the sedentary Fidesz. Technically, this case has proved once again that you are playing with completely zinc in the case of the Paks investment, which is basically the many times now that you are trying to work off the two-year slip that you are on about the Paks investment. Unfortunately, it seems that the formula here is quite clear: Rosatom is unable to comply with the Hungarian and European safety standards, so they loosen the track so that they can easily meet it. I do not know, my fellow members of the Government, if they have studied the Finnish example. There it was clear that there was a gap between Finnish and Russian nuclear culture. Technically, it was the Finns who said that so far and no longer with this project, until the controversial issues have been clarified, while in Hungary there is such a secret about the whole Paks expansion that it can only be speculated what you are doing in the background. These billings, however, give us an insight into the poison buns about Paks around the government's house. I would like to remind you that a previous attempt has also been made to give the government the opportunity to review the decisions of the nuclear authority by means of a regulation. Now, of course, this has also had to be corrected, because it is practically a threat to European nuclear safety. We will not allow you to risk the lives and health of Hungarian people directly, we want to continue to amend the nuclear law so that the task of the OAH is once again entrusted to the expert. And I would like to say to you in this Parliamentary Chamber that we will use every legal opportunity we have to ensure that the country's nuclear safety is not subject to the oligarchy playing between the government and the Russia of Putin. What I see is that if for some reason the investor is unable to meet domestic and European technical safety requirements, the solution is not to loosen the rules and put safety at risk. To live with a common example, it's like if someone can't keep speed limits, then we don't get him to go slower with his vehicle, but they take themselves and raise the speed limit by which they can go. In a civilized world, this is not how it works, especially when it comes to nuclear energy, which is a very dangerous, highly dangerous type of energy. I think that the rules must be fully respected, and what we are now seeing in this salad law is the opposite of relaxing the rules. By the way, there are a thousand elements of concern in the law. On behalf of the TAB in a very PC way, the speaker pro-government representative referred to what they were doing here with the fuel bundles. Technically, I would like to say that we are being experimented on, that is what is going on, because in the Russian press - if you are reading it, I am now forced to know what is going on in Hungary - articles are regularly published about the fact that there are many problems with these new kinds of bundles, they need to be amended. I would like it if they didn't experiment on us, and would sign in with the new fuel mix if they managed to make a long-term safe and functional type, but apparently the Orbán government has different priorities, and they are able to use Hungarian people as experimental mice. Our amendment, which would have encouraged the government representatives to abandon these risky changes, was voted down by the majority of the government. Of course, we will not support this bill, and we will continue to seize every legal opportunity and every possibility that exists so that Hungarians will not be exposed to this life-threatening business. Thank you.
u2017-12-11-334	Thank you, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary.
u2017-12-11-335	Thank you very much. I'll start where the previous comment was completed. So, in our view, there is nothing more important than nuclear safety, and it is not the interests of the present Orbán government that must determine the evolution of the processes. The nuclear site is the area of the nuclear power plant, so we believe that it is good not to employ a person who may be suspected of a deliberate crime. This can also be settled for foreign workers, as this can be requested from the criminal record, but overall, this does not guarantee and does not provide the guarantee that everything is in order with regard to nuclear safety. The other thing that caused us trouble in negotiating the bill is the government's position on the immediate release of the Paks II contract. The Chancellor Minister, Minister Lazarus, promised this at the time, but it seems that Viktor Orbán does not wish to comply, and therefore we will not support the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-12-11-336	Thank you, Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary. I'll ask if anyone still wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Aradski, to tell you his closing statement.
u2017-12-11-337	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I thank my fellow Member László B. Nagy for his speech on behalf of the TAB, which, in line with the content of the law, has set out what bill is being debated and the debate on the Commission's report. Before the situation gets heated here in relation to the fact that we are submitting a bill that is dangerous to the Hungarian nation, the Hungarian population, I would like to say that, and that is why Mrs Bernadett Szél is probably suffering from a lack of information, and that is why she is saying some false things, or at least nonsense, because this proposed bill, the amendment to the nuclear power law, has been notified by the European Commission. It was therefore submitted to Parliament after the announcement, so it was regulation at the level of the European Commission, the specialised bodies of the European Commission, the legal service, in accordance with the relevant European Union Euratom Convention and in accordance with the relevant rules of the International Atomic Energy Agency. So before everyone here rushes and says that this law should not be adopted, because it contains such and such dangerous provisions, I encourage everyone to be calm because, in fact, this bill has been seen by the European Commission, it has been three months to examine its content, it has not found any comments after three months, and it has not found any comments that could not have been submitted to Parliament for adoption. The same applies, of course, to the management of fuel. It is precisely about the fact that at the new nuclear power plant it will be possible to include other types of fuel and fuel bundles in the system, thus ensuring diversification of fuel supply. This is a welcome element in all aspects, which is important for competition in the market and security of supply. [[18.40]] Several times it was said that Paks II. There is insufficient scope for the investment of a nuclear power plant. We have promised, and the government will respect this, that we will disclose all information that is made public in accordance with international standards, according to international case-law. We have done so, and we will continue to do so in the future. This includes procurement issues and, of course, the financing agreement, the interstate agreement and the content of the interstate contract relating to the establishment of a nuclear power plant discussed before this House. I believe that there is nothing that we have not made available to the Honourable Parliament, or that we would not have given it to those who are entitled to it, despite a statutory obligation. In addition, I thank the TAB and the Economic Committee for their positive attitude. I note with regard to the questions put here that during the general debate and during the Commission's debate no negative comments were received on the technical content of the proposal. Even the LMP itself did not indicate its concerns in the parliamentary debate; it seems to me that this is a follow-up. Nevertheless, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in the course of tomorrow and to accept this request for support in the decision-making process. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-11-338	Thank you, Mr András Aradszki Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Here comes the 1997 CLV on consumer protection. The Commission's reports and the discussion of the summary amendment proposed to be submitted to the Act on the amendment of certain laws to the harmonisation of the legislation on package travel. The government referral is T/18305. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Galambos, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-12-11-339	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to inform you that the 1997 CLV on consumer protection was discussed by the Legislative Committee at its meeting on 7 December 2017. Act T/1830 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the harmonisation of the law on package travel. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be adopted by the Committee in accordance with Article 56 of the Rules of Procedure. He supported him by 24 votes in favour and 6 abstentions. The draft amending proposal contains the proposals of the Economic Committee on Language Preferences. In the course of the legislative committee's procedure, an amendment was adopted, which removes the amendments to the consumer protection law from the bill, i.e. the regulation on the employment of consumer rapporteurs. It is clear that further legislation on this issue will have a role to play and, together with this, we would like to support the adoption of the bill. The proposal bases its regulatory principles on the fact that Article 195 of the Lisbon Treaty, which is the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, regulates the promotion and promotion of activities in the tourism sector as falling within the competence of the European Union. In this context, the changes that have taken place and the changes that have been made to life have led to the need for new regulation, such as the possibilities of linked travel, the regulation of Internet travel. These demands led to the adoption by the European Parliament and the Council on 25 November 2015 of a proposal from the European Parliament and the Council to adopt a proposal from the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Directive No 4 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which regulates interim changes in the travel market. These new forms and new elements, which justified the regulation, also make it necessary to carry out the harmonisation procedure and, in this context, to present the bill before us and to discuss it. The amendment also identified a number of concepts through domestic legislation, such as travel agency activities, tour operator activities, commercial activities to facilitate the co-use of travel and travel services. So the legislator is trying to bring these standards into the domestic legal system, following harmonisation. Together with all this and the fact that consumer protection is a constantly changing area that needs to be monitored, I ask, as rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, that the bill be supported tomorrow with its votes.
u2017-12-11-340	Thank you very much, Congressman Dénes Pigeon. I ask the rapporteur whether he wishes to speak now either at the end of the debate or both times. [[Ákos Kara: In the end.]] At the end of the debate, thank you. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Representatives' speeches will take place within the time limits on which they are to be put on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary.
u2017-12-11-341	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to the Consumer Protection Act, we have no problem transposing the directives, we have no problem; we have no problem with regulating the development of the relevant conditions for travel packages. What we had a fundamental problem with was the scope of the amendments to the consumer rapporteur, which my colleague Mr Galambos mentioned earlier, he explained how they got out of this system. In this sense, this duality brings with it the fact that tomorrow we will abstain from adopting this bill. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-12-11-342	Thank you very much, Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone still wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Ákos Kara, who wishes to make a final statement.
u2017-12-11-343	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President,
u2017-12-11-344	Is your card in?
u2017-12-11-345	[[He's adjusting his card.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In relation to the provisions of the bill concerning tourism, it is important to emphasise once again that this regulation has taken place because Hungary plays an important role and tourism plays an important role in the life of the Union, both in economic terms and in other respects. Organized travels, holidays and social trips sold in the package represent a significant proportion of the travel market. Ladies and gentlemen, Discussions or expectations about the bill are in the same direction, since the intention of this bill to protect consumers is to protect travellers. We must adapt legislation to changes in the market for travel services, increase protection for travellers, increase transparency and strengthen legal certainty for both travellers and fair traders and fair sellers. Indeed, the amendment is also linked to an EU directive, according to which new conceptual definitions are included in the bill in relation to the activity of tour operators and travel agents. [[18.50]] Legislation will include a ban on breaking the package in order to make consumer rights more effective. I think this is the most important part of this bill. In order to avoid damage caused by insolvency service providers and to ensure the stability of the travel market and a higher level of protection for travellers, it is appropriate to introduce, under existing financial security, compulsory insurance for travellers as beneficiaries. This insurance allows for greater reimbursement of paid advances and total fees to travellers. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for your speeches in the debate on the bill and for your support for the bill in the final vote tomorrow. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-12-11-346	Thank you, Secretary of State, Ákos Kara. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. It follows from the 2005 CLXIV on trade. Law 1 and the 2016 CLVI on State tasks in the development of tourism areas. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/18537. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame, and the rapporteur for the committee, Mr Dénes Galambos, will present it.
u2017-12-11-347	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is the House Rules 46. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act on Trade, CLXIV of 2005 discussed the following: Law 1 and the 2016 CLVI on State tasks in the development of tourism areas. T/18537. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. 28 votes in favour, 3 against and 1 abstention. The Commission's amendment closing the in-depth debate contains a short amendment aimed at achieving coherence between legislation, which was adopted by the Legislative Committee. In addition, no own amendment has been tabled. The purpose of the bill is to adapt the process of statistical reporting of accommodation providers for commercial and other business purposes in order to ensure that statistical data on accommodation services are up-to-date and accurate. This means that in the legislative proposal, the legislator has sought to adopt it, and the legislator intends to accept it, so that the digitalisation of the tourism sector can be achieved. The bill provides for the channelling of commercial and other business accommodation services providers to data-driven Internet communications, according to which the National Tourism Data Centre maintains cloud-based daily data communications with the applications of accommodation and builds an up-to-date system. No one contested this need in the general debate on the bill, and in the detailed debate everyone agreed that this was absolutely necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us aims to ensure a better implementation of the tourism development goals, to make the processes more precise and simpler, and also to reduce red tape. I would like to ask you to support these modernisations, modernisations, and, through digitalisation, the bill for rapid and modern reporting tomorrow with your votes. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-12-11-348	Thank you, Congressman Dénes Pigeon. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak now or if he wishes to speak at the end. [[Ákos Kara: At the end.]] It indicates that at the end. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary.
u2017-12-11-349	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The public tasks of developing tourism areas are not in question; these are important tasks. We have no objection to this. It is much more about how practical experiences come back. I don't want to give an example now, because it's not the time, so I don't want to deal with Mészáros, Tiborcz and many other issues, but in any case, when the bill refers to the communication of statistical data and to the acquisition of information, it is important to see that this gives others, the ones not mentioned, the opportunity to look at their business secrets. And I have no doubt that he will give it to others. For this very reason, however much it sounds to my fellow Member, Mr Pigeon, that this is in the spirit of cutting red tape, we cannot support this bill, and we will abstain. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-12-11-350	Thank you, Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I give the floor to State Secretary Ákos Kara's closing statement.
u2017-12-11-351	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, If the importance of this bill should be briefly summarised, I would summarise that the administrative burden for accommodation providers is reduced, the technical innovations of the bill make it possible to simplify the administrative process so far, and, as my pro-government colleague said, to significantly reduce the administrative burden. What we're talking about here is an amendment from the Legislative Committee. Here, from six to eight rooms, i.e. from twelve to sixteen seats, the limit of which the tourist agency provides free of charge for accommodation providers with a capacity to connect to the National Tourist Information Centre system. The amendment is, of course, supported by the government, given the fact that the software is provided free of charge to smaller accommodation providers, among whom this represents an important and significant step forward. Digitalisation of the sector is an inevitable social and economic interest that needs to be achieved as soon as possible. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the work of the committees negotiating the bill. We ask you to support the bill in your decision-making. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-12-11-352	Thank you, Secretary of State, Ákos Kara. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2007 LXXIV on the rules for broadcasting and digital transition. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/18566 submitted by Fidesz MEPs János Halász, Gergely Gulyás and Mónika Dunai. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee. [[19.00]]
u2017-12-11-353	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is the House Rules 46. The Commission discussed the rules of the 2007 LXXIV on the rules for broadcasting and the digital changeover under §8 of the EC Treaty. T/1856. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. By 26 votes in favour, 4 votes against. The Commission's amendment closing the in-depth debate contains language suitability and codification amendments, which were adopted by the Legislative Committee. In addition, it did not propose its own amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, Both in Hungary and in Europe, terrestrial digital television is broadcast in the 470-790 megahertz frequency band. As a result of the digital transition, from 5 September 2020, the mobile use of the 700 megahertz frequency band will reduce the availability of spectrum for terrestrial digital television broadcasting. In order to ensure a smooth transition of local televisions and to meet their frequency requirements, it is appropriate to provide for a simpler, more flexible and cost-effective regulatory procedure in the event that no new operator needs are received in the relevant area of reception. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this bill is therefore to allow local televisions to operate smoothly in the absence of a new operator's need, exempting them from the time-consuming and complex original administrative procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, The Legislative Committee, as I said, supports the proposal and I ask that you support it in tomorrow's final vote in order to move local televisions to flexible and fast digital technology. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-354	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if the authors would like to comment. [[Mónika Dunai: Not now.]] Congresswoman Mónika Dunai says no. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if the government wants to speak now. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary of State, Ákos Kara.
u2017-12-11-355	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, This is an important bill, because digitalisation is an extremely important issue in Hungary. The government is committed to digitalization. I would like to remind you that we are helping Hungarian people, Hungary, with a number of concrete measures to succeed and to succeed everyone in Hungary in the digital world. It should be recalled that by the end of 2018, we have a very important commitment to make the super-fast internet available to all households that require it. As I said in the general debate, we have also launched various targeted programmes, training or economic development programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill fits well with the government's ambitions. In summary, I would like to say that during the general debate, I recall that it has not been possible to make clear exactly what this bill is about in the opposition: this bill is purely technical in nature and serves to reduce administrative burdens. The proposal will support a total of 34 local television stations broadcasting their programmes via an antenna, providing them with a procedural facilitation in order to continue to operate smoothly after 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important to emphasise that this simplified procedure will be made available to stakeholders in order to ensure a smooth transition. The frequencies released can be used to develop mobile broadband, 4 G and 5 G networks in line with EU requirements. Ladies and gentlemen, On the government's side, we agree with both the bill and the Commission's amendments and clarifications. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. [[Dr. Imre Vas applauds.]]
u2017-12-11-356	Thank you, Secretary of State, Ákos Kara. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary.
u2017-12-11-357	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Broadcast and digital transition. There is virtually no problem with the digital transition. That's not the problem. As Secretary of State Ákos Kara said, this is an important thing. The problem is that during the previous period, our experiences show that the radios have been absorbed, and now this is spreading to the digital media. And in addition to all of this, what is a problem for us is that we do not see it as a simplification that even processes without a tender can be brought to life and can develop, but rather as others. That is why this prevents us from supporting this bill. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-12-11-358	Thank you, Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. Then I will give the floor to the rapporteur, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai.
u2017-12-11-359	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the authors, I also thank you for the comments made in the debate on the bill and for its amendments and clarifications. I think it is clear to all of us that, in addition to large national televisions, there is a great need for local and regional television. That's how it is in Budapest. There is also a local television in my constituency, Rákosmente, but this is also the case in the countryside, in the rural settlements of Hungary. They can track a lot of national television, convey a lot of value, but local media and local television play a very important role in the local publication of local news, local events and information on the lives of local authorities. Helping this goal, I think, is our task, and with this facilitation we know these local televisions, mostly working with some people, we will help you to deliver and distribute the program in a really good quality, as a result of the digital transition. The winners of this will be people, who will be able to watch not only national television channels and broadcasts, but also local television programmes in an even better quality and digital way. Thank you once again for your comments, for the support of the government, and for your vote tomorrow to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-360	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2015 CCXXII on the general rules for electronic administration and trust services. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The T/18530, submitted by Gergely Gulyás and Répássy Róbert, Fidesz, representatives. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I will ask the rapporteur whether he would like to speak now or at the end of the debate. Thank you for the signal. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[For signal:]] The government representative says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary. [[19.10]]
u2017-12-11-361	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As Mr President has indicated, a separate motion has been tabled. In the context of the general debate, one of our problems was how the discussions, how the circle of discussions were brought to life, how impact assessments were born or how they were not, rather than yes. We have two simple comments. One is that the government is obviously responsible for the absence of delays. Our problem and our problem is that some of the debtors cannot provide the conditions for electronic administration, and in this sense the adoption of the draft law cannot be done on our part. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-12-11-362	Thank you, Mr. Notary, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] The author says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Following is the 1999 LXXXIV on the Road Transport Register. Act and Act XLIV of 2016 amending certain laws relating to transport. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/18564 submitted by the Fidesz MEPs Sándor Kovács, Jenő Manninger and Sándor Hadházy. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, in the debate, Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur of the Committee, presented the position of the Legislative Committee.
u2017-12-11-363	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 7 December 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed the 1999 LXXXIV on the Road Transport Register. Act and Act XLIV of 2016 amending certain laws relating to transport. T/18564. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were supported by 24 votes in favour and 6 abstentions. The summarised amendment includes both the codification clarifications of the Economic Committee and the TAB's own amendment proposal. The legislative amendment adopted by our committee created consistency with the T/18308 on the amendment of certain laws relating to transport adopted by the Parliament on 28 November 2017. By amending its provisions on entry into force, the Commission would repeal the provisions on the introduction of life-to-life data provision by 31 December 2018. It is therefore also necessary to postpone the entry into force of the amendment contained in the bill before us by 31 December 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, the bill reduces the possibility of abuse and, on the other hand, provides a wide range of information to the owner and operator of the vehicle, to which I would like your support so that we can accept the proposal tomorrow. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-11-364	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. The rapporteur indicated that he would like to present his opinion at the end of the debate. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to comment. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State says no. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I can already see that Mr Nándor Gúr, notary, has indicated his wish to speak to him.
u2017-12-11-365	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'll talk to him briefly. I would just like to say that the amendment to the law on road transport tabled in 2016 will be amended. This is about the fact that it should have been on January 1, 2018, and it should have been, we can now say, all of it. Now, since it cannot be achieved, previous mistakes and shortcomings will be corrected, although this will take a year, a whole year, because the new border point is December 31, 2018. Basically, we see that the bill serves the interests of insurance companies. This is not the main reason, but the fact that two years were not sufficient to ensure that the bill could be enforced, so we will take a stand. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-12-11-366	Thank you, Mr. Notary, Congressman. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will not ask the rapporteur, because he has indicated that he wishes to speak, so I will give the floor to Mr Sándor Kovács for the closing words of his author.
u2017-12-11-367	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you with great respect for the support of the criticisms and comments given in the debate, both on the part of the committees, on the part of the government and on the part of the opposition. In order for this to actually take effect, I would also ask for your support in tomorrow's vote. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2017-12-11-368	Thank you, Congressman Sándor Kovács. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain health and health insurance legislation and the summary amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/18319. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-12-11-369	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed T/18319 on 7 December 2017. The draft law amending certain health and health insurance legislation submitted by the Committee with 21 votes in favour, 2 votes against, 2 abstentions, and a summary report. The Commission's amendment closing the detailed debate and the TAB's own amendment were also adopted. The TAB's own modification proposal provides that if a new public pharmacy can be established in the municipality or part of the municipality where the branch drugstore operates, the operator may be the operator of the pharmacy in question if he intends to do so and so requests. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the proposal before you, which aims at cutting red tape on the one hand and increasing patient safety on the other, and, on the third, broadening the possibility of soldiers working abroad. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-12-11-370	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author whether he wishes to speak now or at the end of the debate. [[For signal:]] It says it's not right now. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. Representatives' speeches will follow within the time frame on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Zombor, Fidesz.
u2017-12-11-371	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In general, end-of-year medical salad laws are not usually the most exciting laws, but they are extremely important, as they form the legal basis for measures that provide new and new guarantees in both operation and patient safety that the Hungarian health system works better. [[19.20]] Since there was full agreement in the committee on the big issues and generally the salad laws are voted by a large majority, I would like to point out that this is the last health law this year, and perhaps we can all thank the health workers in this place for their year of sacrifice, endurance, and we hope that the trend that has started and which is now continuous and unbroken, that the government and the country are making ever-increasing efforts to maintain the most important value, human resources, will lead to the achievement of better conditions, better financial appreciation and moral appreciation for the people who stay home. Personally, and perhaps on behalf of all of us, I would like to thank you for holding on, nursing, healing patients, and I hope that you will continue to do your job with similar sacrifice and similar professionalism next year. I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State, the Ministry and everyone involved in implementing these extremely important, forward-looking measures, the wage agreement, because it is in our interest to have a well-functioning health care in this country. Don't let any of us get sick, but we're gonna need health care for all of us. Thank you very much, and I would like to wish you a blessed Christmas for everyone I'm not going to meet anymore.
u2017-12-11-372	Thank you, Congressman Gábor Zombor. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2017-12-11-373	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can agree with the idea of my fellow Member, Mr Gábor Sombor, and I can confirm that we also think in the same way about thanking people working in health care, even because they carry out their work on conditions that are quite cudarak. In terms of appreciation, which my fellow Member has also spoken about, there are other points to be expressed here, but I would not wish to go in this respect. I will mention only one example, for example, Mr Secretary of State knows the multitude of earners of the guaranteed minimum wage, who suffer the level of 12 per cent wage development - citations - but the quotation mark can be abandoned - while not hitting them with a net forint. To translate the word into English, they would need more intensive and more appreciation. I would like to add two simple sentences to the bill. The errors made 11 months ago will be corrected here today, giving the government, in a sense, a broad mandate, practically the Ministry as a controller on this issue. This is amazing in some sense and backwards, I can say with a calm spirit, because anyone within the Ministry - I put anyone in a quotation mark - has access to data and data that is sensitive and sensitive to which, in some sense, can be abused. One more sentence concerns the reorganization of processes between OEP and EMMI. In our view, integration does not move the story forward, but rather slows it down and reverses it. One word, like a hundred, these things bring the result that we will not be able to support this bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-12-11-374	Thank you, Congressman, notary. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment now. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of individual laws in relation to defence issues and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/18544. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-12-11-375	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 7 December 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/18544 amendment of certain laws in relation to defence issues. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were supported by 25 votes in favour, 5 against and 3 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the proposals of the Defence and Police Committee containing technical and grammatical clarifications. To sum up the proposal, it contains provisions which, on 1 January 2018, enter into force, are essential for maintaining the coherence of the legal system. In view of this, the bill contains provisions establishing the alignment with the Act on General Administrative Rules, the Law on Administrative Rules and the Law on New Civil Procedure, which will enter into force on 1 January. In addition, the amendment included in the proposal will make the rules on professional entry more flexible and, on the other hand, the detailed rules on eligibility for accident benefits under the Law on compulsory health insurance for members of professional staff will be clarified. Thank you for your attention. Please support the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-11-376	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment or at the end. [[For signal:]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Imre Vas, rapporteur of the designated Defense and Police Committee.
u2017-12-11-377	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 6 December 2017, the Defence and Police Committee held a meeting of the Committee on Defence and Police at T/18544. Proposal for a Law amending individual laws in relation to defence issues. During the detailed discussion phase, it was found that the bill was fully supported and contains important objectives, and it is therefore of particular importance that it be adopted. No amendments have been tabled by the Members, but the Committee has tabled its own amendment. The Committee supported the conclusion of the detailed discussion phase and the submission of the Commission's amendment by 6 votes in favour and 2 against. Thank you for listening.
u2017-12-11-378	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I see Congressman Nándor Gúr is signaling. You have the floor, Congressman, notary. [[19.30]]
u2017-12-11-379	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to say two simple sentences on this bill. One is that the Defence Procurement Act is being emptied, in this sense the other sentence is, in our view, the conversion of Muty, so this bill will not be supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-12-11-380	Thank you, Mr. Notary, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As I do not see any further signs of opposition on the monitor, the debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Tamás Vargha, if he wishes to make use of the final thoughts of the debate. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-12-11-381	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, There is only one sentence of Congressman Nándor Gúr. The amendment of the Defence Procurement Act is necessary because the legal system of the European Union requires us to do so, both that the Defence Procurement Act should be created separately outside the Public Procurement Act and that legal harmonisation is necessary, as is the case with the amendment of the law on the status of military defenders, because from 1 January 2018 laws to which this law should be adapted will be put in place. The law is about the Hungarian soldiers, the soldiers of the Hungarian Army. At the end of the year, I would like to say that in recent years some sixteen thousand Hungarian soldiers have actively participated in the protection of the Hungarian border, in the protection of Hungary, as a guarantee of Hungary's security. I would also like to thank you for your sacrifice from this place, and I wish you a blessed, peaceful, merry Christmas and a successful new year for all Hungarian soldiers, especially those who will be in service on Christmas Eve as well. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Imre Vas applauds.]]
u2017-12-11-382	Thank you, Mr. Secretary Tamás Vargha. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The 2011 CXCIX on public service officials follows. Act XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/18565 submitted by representatives of Gergely Gulyás, Csaba Hende, Róbert Répássy and Imre Vas Fidesz. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-12-11-383	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 7 December 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 CXCIX on Public Service Officers. Act XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament T/1856. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were unanimously supported by 30 votes in favour, including proposals from the Judicial Committee. To sum up the proposal, the Parliamentary Office proposes to create its own career opportunity for civil servants, which adequately offsets the invested expertise and performance. I would like to point out that the proposal was unanimously supported by all parliamentary groups at the committee meeting. The professional knowledge and abilities of civil servants supporting the legislative process are crucial in supporting the functioning of the Parliament. Accordingly, it is appropriate to establish specific rules for them and to make them appear in the Act on Parliament, which reflects the prestige of the parliamentary civil servant status. Thank you for supporting the bill with your vote in committee and for supporting it in the final vote tomorrow. Thank you for listening.
u2017-12-11-384	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. I will ask if any of the authors wish to speak. [[Dr. Vas Imre indicates no.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, notary Mrs Jobbik.
u2017-12-11-385	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. My brief point is to express thanks. We have been pushing this issue within the walls of this House for a very long time. Obviously, not only in relation to the employees and civil servants here, but also in general in relation to the civil servants in Hungary, we would like to continue to achieve a significant wage increase, but there is no doubt that we wanted to pay particular attention to our own house, and we encouraged the establishment of this law as early as last year. That didn't work then. I am very pleased that by now the idea has come to my senses in the governing parties, and that we have been able to submit amendments to this bill, which were then accepted by the committee. I am a little sorry that the Office of the Constitutional Court and the Office of the President of the Republic were still included in last year's motion, and we wanted to add to this to the civil servants working in the ombudsman's office; compared to the size of the Parliament's number, this would no longer have meant a substantial extra burden, since we are talking about only a few dozen civil servants per institution. Unfortunately, this has not been passed through the House, but it will be here tomorrow as an amendment. I'm asking for your support. We wanted a little more regulation on the issue of language examination, but what the committee accepted as our own amendment was already a step forward from the original motion. Moreover, the fact that no one can have a lower wage even by accident in relation to the donation or withdrawal of different titles than at the time before the adoption of the bill, that suspension condition was included in this bill, I think, is a very important aspect. Therefore, on this basis, the amount of gross earnings for the national economy will be the salary base here in the House, it is true that this will not apply to the average amount before the current year, but to the average amount before that year, i.e. two years before that, but still a significant step forward. At the same time, we are also pleased that our amendment has been accepted, on the basis of which we will be able to move from 2020 onwards to the previous year. So good news for civil servants here is that next year or the following year only one increase, but then two increases will affect their salary at the same time. We would also have liked to have a little more flexibility in terms of the main professional advisor's and advisor's titles, namely, that those who now have their advisory, senior advisor's address can continue this title as chief consultants and advisors. I hope that there will be some kind of substantive change in this regard in the near future. On the other hand, I can say once again, by joining my fellow Member, Imre Vas, that the work that civil servants and workers do here are extremely important, and let us say it, because this bill will apply to the members of the Parliamentary Guard, so it is an extremely important sacrifice that they put on the table every day and help us with our work. That is why I am very pleased that this bill is expected to be adopted tomorrow by the House in full consensus. Please allow me also to wish you a merry Christmas for all the people and workers in this House. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2017-12-11-386	Thank you, Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, notary. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary. [[19.40]]
u2017-12-11-387	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party, I would like to thank the workers working within the walls of the House, within the framework of the Office of the Parliament, for all the activities that help the House's work and, in excess, not only the work of the House but also the tasks beyond it. My second thought is that it is a joy that some of the amendments that have been made and which have been put in place by us will be accepted, in this sense, in terms of benchmarking, it is likely to be adopted with a supplement from four months to six months. As a third thought, I would like to say that, in addition to the fact that we consider it very important and considered that this, I can safely say, will result in a substantial increase in salaries in the Parliamentary Office, in general in the public service, it should also apply to public servants and public service providers. I see that there are far greater problems in this, so I urge the government on my opposition side To step into this necessary process more intensively in the remaining period of 3-4 months of governance, as has been done so far. You have something to do, believe me. And it is important not only within the walls of this House, but also outside the walls of this House, that public service people have access to decent sources that provide a basis for living. So my final sentence is that I am pleased that this bill will become a law and will be passed together with our support, but we would like this to happen in other areas of public service to a similar and similar extent. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-12-11-388	Thank you, Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre.
u2017-12-11-389	Thank you very much for the support of the parliamentary parties. They explained that they would continue to support the bill in the vote tomorrow, and I thank you in advance. And I thank the civil servants of the Parliamentary Office and all their colleagues for this year's work and I wish them blessed holidays. Thank you very much.
u2017-12-11-390	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2013 CCXLI on the National Remembrance Committee. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/18531 submitted by representatives of Gergely Gulyás, Róbert Répássy and Imre Vas Fidesz. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-12-11-391	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 7 December 2017, CCXLI 2013 discussed the National Remembrance Committee. The committee submitted a bill amending the Act and a summary amendment proposal and a summary report, adopted by 23 votes to seven, with no abstentions. The summary amending proposal contains the proposals of the Judicial Committee containing linguistic and codification clarifications. To sum up the proposal, it is intended to facilitate the work of the National Remembrance Committee as a panel body, to clarify and rationalise certain procedural elements of the body's operation in order to make its operation more efficient. The proposal is, in the light of experience gained in the course of more than three years' operation of the Committee and its Office, the repeal of provisions which are difficult to apply in practice and the adaptation of certain provisions to general practice. In order to facilitate the scientific work of the Committee, to facilitate cooperation between the Chair and the Committee and to address work organisation issues, it is also necessary to bring operational rules closer to other rules. On this basis, I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill.
u2017-12-11-392	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. I'll ask if you'd like to comment on behalf of the authors. [[Dr. Vas Imre says no.]] Congressman Vas Imre says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary.
u2017-12-11-393	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have only one request before the adoption of the law, but after the adoption of the law, we will still have this request. I would like to ask my fellow Member Vas Imre specifically to fight within his own faction among the governing parties, and I can also say that he demands that the agents' lists and the agent files be explored, that the disclosure be made. A clean and honest discovery should be carried out, coupled with a true, pure picture of the situation, not in the best interests of anyone, of any political force. We have been saying this for a long time, and you have not wanted to do this for a long time, but I urge my fellow Member, Imre Vas, to be a champion in this story. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-12-11-394	Thank you, Mr. Notary, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask Mr Vas Imre, the rapporteur, if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-12-11-395	Thank you very much. I'd like to respond to Nándor Gúr. By the way, we made it possible for these documents to be searchable, allowing victims or observers to disclose the documents relating to them, and from the report of the National Remembrance Committee, i.e. the report before the Judicial Committee, it turned out that these documents were taken over by the National Remembrance Committee, at least a major part of which has not been kept and are working on it. So anything that hasn't been made public can go public. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-12-11-396	Thank you very much, Congressman Vas Imre. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the meeting of our agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Following the agenda, Félix Farkas spokesperson for Roma ethnicity, with the title of the contributions of the representatives of the JOBBIK released to the public. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2017-12-11-397	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Between 17 and 19 November 2017, I attended a visit to the concentration camp in Auschwitz-Birkenau with 60 people. As we arrived back to Hungary, we were shocked to learn that the former MP of Jobbik, György Gyula Zagyva - who, I understand, is one of the employees of the Tisavasvár municipality - and two other people who are also related to Jobbik, are making jokes about the victims of the Holocaust, according to Gábor Hunyadi and András Balasi, a recent recording. Making jokes about the death of millions of Jews, Gypsies, or people of any nationality is a highly immoral and inhumane behavior. The President of Jobbik should withdraw the consistency and resign. He should be punished, but he should at least apologize to the relatives of the victims. In the name of the Gypsy in Hungary, we reject such behaviour and such behavior. Lately, they have tried to collect even Gypsy votes with their cuteness, but we know that this should have been for the sole purpose of getting them into power. What could we expect, what would the country expect? They hit the Jews, hit the gypsies, hit the pensioners. Who's next? The women, the children, the weak-sighted ones? Or does it matter for power? They're capable of hitting everyone. [[19.50]] I know that the population of Hungary is wiser than that to put this party in a position. We can see that Jobbik will never change, that radical party will remain as it was when they were founded. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-12-11-398	Thank you for the voice of Félix Farkas on Roma ethnicity. Dear Parliament, Speaking after the agenda MEP Zsolt Egyed is a Jobbikós representative:. Poison from the pharmacy? It's an address. You have the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2017-12-11-399	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I recently learned from the national press that in a pharmacy in Miskolc, the druggist switched the active substance in the rectum prepared at the pharmacy for children. The so - called Magistral drug has caused a significant number of children to become ill in such a way that hospitalization was needed. The pharmacy was, quite rightly, shut down by the administration for a while. How did we get here? Years ago, I received dozens of complaints from the heads of this pharmacy in Miskolc. These were mostly moral, economic and legislative matters, which I forwarded to the competent authorities, and the authorities acted with more or less success. Personal legitimate pharmacist of the pharmacy and White Raven Pharmacy Ltd. is operated by the same person: Dr. Attila Tihor, the chief pharmacist, runs the pharmacy and the kft.; so far there is nothing special about this, as it is usually the case in other pharmacies. However, it is rare, or in style, as a white raven, that, in addition to the operation of the pharmacy, the company also deals with real estate speculation and construction activities. After the chief pharmacist was known all over the city for his greed, driven by his masons and speculative real estate business, he had no time left to look into his fingernails for his pharmacies. We are alive and the meaning of our lives, and our greatest treasure is the child we raise, fear, and protect. The most important thing is to keep him from being poisoned because of the negligence of an unconscionable greasy greasy greasy, because the active substance that has been replaced can be very objective and even democratic: indiscriminately poisoning anyone who takes it in good faith. I call very strongly on the government to examine strictly and in the context of its authorities the professional and economic activities of the pharmacy concerned and the undertaking operating it. The sick man is fallen, vulnerable and vulnerable. It is therefore necessary to give priority to pharmaceutical safety over the freedom of the enterprise. After all, it is easy to be smart, but it can also be concluded that when the company was registered in the court of business, this poisoning was already covered, when besides pharmaceutical activity, the construction activity was registered completely legally, along with many others, for example. The active practice of the latter is well demonstrated by the company's annual accounts. I would like to ask the pharmacist and all those who have given him the opportunity to run amok so far: where is the dignity of the profession of pharmacist? Where do the sublime ideas of the oath of pharmacists in the veritable language remain? The politicians, the administration, the pharmaceutical chamber are listening, journalists are simply hanging up on the phone at the White Raven Pharmacy. No one apologizes, trusts in obscurity oblivion, and refers to the ongoing investigation. The investigation will identify a legal officer, even though this literally serious case has several morals. They lay low and keep quiet. I send them the lines of Mihály Babits, an accomplice who is mute. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would also like to note, on this matter, that I find it particularly outrageous that it is purely for business purposes, and we cannot talk about anything else here, that the physical safety and health of children are at risk. So I would definitely ask everyone to look into this matter and to think that if his child were to be put in a situation like this, if his child might be given a medicine in connection with a disease that would require immediate hospitalization, care, what would be in that parent's mind. I've been called several times in the last few days, whose children have otherwise been hospitalized, and I simply couldn't find words, and I found this whole case outrageous. So I think that if the government, as we do, is indeed the nation's most important treasure and the most esteemed member of the Hungarian child, then I think that this issue should be considered with the proper efficiency and strength, because once it has happened, it can happen again, and what if children fall victim to irresponsible work or behaviour in a job. Allowing parents to ask, and taking it for granted, I will file a complaint with the appropriate authorities, because it is amazing simply that in Hungary, the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the Act will be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. This could happen in the first century. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-11-400	Thank you very much, Congressman. Good evening. Speaking after the agenda, MEP László Varga, representative of the MSZP, asked for a clean air. It's an address. Here you go. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2017-12-11-401	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, I have had several times here in Parliament to talk about the subject that affects my hometown, Miskolc, specifically and the valley of Sajó with air pollution. At this stage of the year, the period begins when, partly because of the heating modes and the solid firing, and partly because of the other conditions, because of motor vehicle traffic, there is a huge health risk to be faced in the valley of Sajó. This has been the case for many years, it has been the case for decades, but last year it has reached unprecedented proportions, and in as many parameters as possible there have been more health border crossings, we have seen this in the centre of Miskolc, at the Wheat Square measuring station. The PM10 concentration, i.e. the concentration of dust particles of less than 10 microns, was almost 800 per cent, and in Hungarian it reached a health limit of approximately 8 times. These are amazing numbers. We also see that these measuring stations are not necessarily the most modern, since they are not suitable for measuring the smallest dust particles, which are less than 2.5 microns, and are the most harmful to human health. Last year, I promised to consult professionals on what could be done, what content solutions could be in this situation. Since then, I have repeatedly raised such content solutions. I immediately started by renegotiating the programme "Modern Cities" for Miskolc and specifically addressing the measures taken to reduce and eliminate air pollution. Research and development funds should be spent in this direction. In any case, a number of content solutions have been put forward by both residents and the relevant professionals and civil society organisations I have consulted. Without the need for completeness, let me mention some here again after the agenda in Parliament. They raised the need to support only investments where there is no significant emission of pollutants from the technology used. Social change of view, the construction of bicycle roads must be encouraged; the price of gas must be reduced, as the world market price has not been followed in Hungary; firewood must be prepared accordingly, must be of sufficient quality and its VAT content should be reduced. The quantity and quality of commercial coal should be checked; a social boiler exchange programme should be launched. Attention should be paid to building energy improvements, car exchange programmes should be promoted more seriously and, last but not least, content solutions in Community transport should be set up in the medium term for electric vehicles. In any case, I would like to note here that this is a very important point in the new MSZP programme, i.e. the priority of electric drive in Community transport. But these are the issues of content, which obviously require a lot of resources, but I always draw attention to the need to invest in this direction and to focus on changing attitudes. [[20.00]] Finally, however, let me mention a type of symptomatic treatment that is a very important innovation in Miskolc. With years of hard work, the research team of the University of Miskolc prepared a research, a development that, as a symptomatic treatment, could very quickly deliver the contaminated air from an area to higher air layers. This is a procedure called smogkém, a technology that I believe can solve the health risks that air pollution poses quickly and effectively, obviously with symptomatic treatment, but quickly and effectively. I would like to draw attention again and again to the fact that such projects are truly worthy of R &amp; D money and support. I do not know, but again and again I call attention to the fact that the government should address this issue, and that Parliament should address this issue. The University of Miskolc's researchers and professional team do deserve to do this. I think that hundreds of thousands of Hungarians can have healthier lives if we do this. Supporting this project in the fight against air pollution would be a huge step. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-12-11-402	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Nándor Gúr is the next Member who has applied for a statement after the agenda, a representative of the MSZP, a notary of the Parliament: the State is working for Éhérér! - It's called the 1st. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-403	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hungary is unfair today. It is unfair, because more and more people, unfortunately, in the last eight years, are becoming more and more in a situation of life that is deteriorating compared to the previous period. They suffer every day. My fellow Member Varga has been going around a particular issue in previous thoughts, which is a general problem in a number of disadvantaged areas. In Miskolc, in the valley of Sajó, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, this problem appears in a cumulative manner. It is true, as you said, that the health limit is represented by 700-800 percent exceedances in a place where people are already living their lives in poverty, if any, misery. Think of where there are many people today who can only live their lives on the stage of public employment. Basically, in disadvantaged, cumulative disadvantaged areas. They are the ones who, by the way, do not even receive the kind of decent society, and they do not even have access to the money that would now amount to the minimum living amount per capita in Hungary. Although the government does not calculate the minimum of living, it has already been denied, because they do not want to face reality anymore, and this is the sum of the minimum of living per person based on measurements and statements. At the same time, we are now in the process of providing net money for 54 thousand forints within the framework of public employment. Well, the minimum wage doesn't reach the minimum salary, 84 thousand forints. With a 20-percent decline in purchasing power, counting inflation over the last eight years, it can be said that this is about 66-67,000 forints. I would also add that for five years of this week, people with minimum wage had access to less purchasing power. But there is also a difference of 30,000 between minimum wage and public employment. Between the two wages, where the minimum wage is the lowest, the minimum wage does not reach the minimum wage per person. And what about the guaranteed public employment wage for skilled people and the guaranteed minimum wage? Well, the net for guaranteed public employment is 70-71 thousand forints, and the guaranteed minimum wage is 107 thousand forints. Here, too, depending on whether you get a public employment salary or a guaranteed minimum wage, both have a qualification, there is also a difference of HUF 36,000. I would like to point out with these figures that in these areas, in disadvantaged areas, there are a lot of people who earn their money at or below the guaranteed minimum wage, even at the level of public employment wages. In the meantime, with regard to public workers, there is also a situation where people are fired from the public sector, civil servants and public service workers are fired and, where appropriate, re-employed as public workers in the same municipality within the framework of another institution. That means saving people money, not paying them decent wages, and putting them in an impossible position. Surveys and measurement data show that they save about 120 to 130 thousand forints a year on these people. They save between 120 and 130 thousand forints that they are not employed as public employees, but instead as public employees. This is unacceptable. This needs to be changed. These people should also be placed in a position to obtain, in addition to the pursuit of value-creating work, the social security that is the basis for a decent living, which reaches the minimum amount of living, in net amounts. The Hungarian Socialist Party will do so during the next period of government. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-12-11-404	Thank you very much. Mr László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, applied for a speech after the agenda:, Under the Christmas tree of the Nagykunság. It's an address. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-405	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of the year, when Christmas is coming, you always want to wish for something big and something that you need and what you want. As a great councilman, my desire is for the Great Kunsa to be a good place to live and be happy. That's why I've been trying to put together everything that could be placed under the Christmas tree of the Great Community, what people who live there might want most. At the same time, we can be sure that the Jesus of our region is not very rich, that it has no great potential. Perhaps one of the biggest losers of the past 27 years has been the heart of the Great Plain, which is the workplaces that have been avoided by developments. But let's see what those gifts might be. The first is the creation of jobs and the number of jobs that guarantee the safety of everyday life. We have run into a problem here, and this is the dead end of the last 27 years, which is statistically characterised by a well-captured indicator: the third worst figure in the country is shown by the region in unemployment statistics. In the constituency, which runs from Tiszafüred to Túrkevé, from Guns to Karcag, five of the ten settlements with the worst unemployment rates in the county are located in this area. In fact, Abadszalók, Kunhegyes and Kunmadaras are the worst of the county's towns and cities and the worst of them. It is therefore a wish to create a workplace and jobs where it is possible to work at all, which leads not to the world of public work, but to the sphere of competition instead of the world of public work; and here we are moving to the second gift, which is a question of decent wages. Because it's useless to have a job and a job, but you can't afford to earn a living from the wages you get there. Thus, the second wish is that not only the Visegrádian, not only the EU, but even the national average, can catch up with the total amount of wages that can be earned in the Great Kunság. [[20.10]] What we see is that 85 percent of the national average wage can only be taken home by the workers of the Great Community. The same is true for pensioners, of course, so those who go to shops with the shopping basket at the end of the month feel the lack that their pensions are significantly lower than those on the western side of the country or pensions in Budapest. The solution to this is, of course, the need to create jobs where higher wages can be earned, businesses that are there are engaged in activities that have high added value and good profitability, and these companies can generate these wages. Of course, in the longer term, there is also a need for the Wages Union, as it is also very important that we not only catch up with ourselves by eliminating inequalities within the country, but also get closer and closer to Western wages. The third wish is the desire for physical safety. That is, we can feel safe when we are sick and when we are healthy and travelling. These two very important areas are also important, so the issue of health and roads must surely fall under the Christmas tree of the Great Community. Let us not be insatiable, health is our greatest treasure. I think we all know that, basically without health, without our physical well-being, our lives aren't worth a damn. Therefore, one of the most important things is that there must be health improvements in the Great Kunsa that strengthen the hospital in Karcag that make it a safe and modern care facility. But, of course, you have to think about smaller settlements. There is a very, very important role to be played by virtually outpatient supply sites and sites to be installed in individual smaller cities, which are also modern and XXI. They have to provide care in the first century. And if we are talking about roads, perhaps few people are unaware of the calvary the Great Kunság, the heart of the Great Plain, suffered in connection with the construction of the M4 motorway. From a frozen political relationship, it became a frozen construction site. In essence, the region is inaccessible without this and the 21st century. In the first century he could not receive a very important huge traffic. This therefore affects jobs, affects school attendance, work attendance, almost all our ordinary activities. Therefore, at the end of the speech, I can wish for these gifts to come under the tree of the Great Community as soon as possible, these opportunities that can and must be taken. I think that the safety of living, the safety of work, the safety of everyday life are all elements that should be under the tree of the Great Community at this time of Christmas. From here I wish everyone a merry and peaceful Christmas, a peaceful holiday. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-12-11-406	And my humble Christmas present to you was 19 seconds, which, according to the house rules, should have been taken away. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Thank you very much.]] But you don't do that before Christmas. Member Mr Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, applied for a statement after the agenda: sentence about tyranny. It's an address. Here you go.
u2017-12-11-407	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Joanne Kathleen Rowling, an English writer whose archvillain Voldemort, the Fidesz Congressman Roland, had so much of a fantasy that she and her pals called herself, wrote, "Do you have any idea how terrified the tyrants are of the oppressed?" They are all aware that sooner or later there will be one among their victims, who will stand up and strike back. If it's not the general fear, it's the tyrant who fears for his own safety. István Nemere, one of the most prolific writers of all time, said: "Every dictatorship is sick, and the brains of those who serve it are sick."Péter Popper, a psychologist who passed away in 2010, summarized this somewhat nuanced: "The same humandeal of terror, dictatorship, and globalized society is no different. Dictatorship loves those who can be controlled by passwords, false myths, propaganda. The globalised society prefers the same in business interest: people who can be moved mass with propaganda, advertising and false orientation. Both social arrangements are repugnant to self-thinking, self-reliant personalities who refuse to submit to this collective control. However, Mahatma Gandhi, the Indian politician, once said and his words are hopeful: "We must not forget that throughout history there have always been tyrants and murderers who have for some time seemed invincible, but have always failed. Always. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. According to Glenn Greenwald, a journalist at The Guardian, he rarely targets people who are no threat to him. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the science fiction film Babylon 5, the basic truth was said: "There is no greater power in the whole universe than the desire for freedom. This power cannot be defeated by a government, a tyrant or an army, and, in other words, by how successful the autocracy can be, John Steinbeck, the American writer awarded the Nobel Prize in 1962, said: "Repression is only good for strengthening and hardening the oppressed. The idea of Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, the author of the little prince, who thought: "The new truths are always born in the cellars of oppression." According to Dutch correspondent and writer Joris Luyendijk: "The dictatorship is also a war, only there is a government that carries war against its subjects."Of course, the self-doubt of power can have different degrees, but József Eötvös, the first responsible Hungarian government, and then after the reconciliation, a politician who holds a minister of religion and public education in the government of Andrássy said: "The tyranny is ugly, but the cunning oppression is even more nasty." I would quote the British historian-politician of the century; perhaps it is worth thinking about his words too:. Power tends to corrupt, the full power tends to total corruption. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Any parallel to the text of my speech may be a coincidence, but I don't think so. At the end of my speech, I wish you all a blessed Advent period and a merry Christmas. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-11-408	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. Meeting day's closed. For you and everyone who monitors our activities, good evening and good night. [[Meeting ended at 20:17 p.m.]]
