u2017-11-28-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I welcome you all with love. The 25th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that in the chair of this meeting, Attila Gelencsér and István Ikotity will be notaries of my assistance. Welcome to our guests and to all those who are monitoring our work today. The pre-meeting speeches will follow. - Humanity! Mr Zoltán Lukács, from the MSZP Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-28-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The one who left his home this morning was forced to experience the winter, the cold, the frosts again. This is someone's happy winter skiing and skiing havens, but it is a problem for a lot of people; it is also a problem for hardly heated homes, increased bills, and a re-accumulative backlog. In recent times, unfortunately, we have seen more and more serious cases of people getting cold in their own apartments, dying in their own unheated apartments because they cannot heat their homes. I don't want to go into an unworthy number war right now about how many people this is. I don't want to agree that anyone in Hungary can be determined today that they died of coldness, and of course I don't want to go into the vision that there are a lot of people who die of coldness, but this doesn't come out. I mean, if someone, say, a weak, sick old man, lies in his unheated apartment for two weeks, gets pneumonia, goes to the hospital and dies there, they're not gonna say he died of a cold. But obviously, we all understand that it killed him, because if he hadn't been in the unheated apartment for two weeks, obviously that wouldn't have happened. Ladies and gentlemen. For the seventh time, we presented our proposal to the Parliament on the fund for heated homes. This proposal is about a social fund. It would help people who are unable to heat their apartments because of their social difficulties, who cannot pay their bills, who have missed their bills, and who have been turned off from various services in many cases, whether in terms of gas, electricity or district heating. We submitted this proposal seven times. This proposal is a proposal for humanity. This proposal is a proposal for responsibility. However, we should be shocked to find that the governing parties voted against the proposal for the seventh time, not at all, to be able to come before Parliament, because last week the Economic Committee voted against it. I am completely confused because if we can only save one person or one family or help it, then I do not understand why the governing parties are shutting down from making such a suggestion. I know that they have so-called solutions, even the social firewood programme, which really means all the beauty patches where they can use them, but we all know that all the problems and certain types of problems cannot be solved. Moreover, this fund, which we are talking about, is not only about helping people who are already in specific danger of life, but also about families with multiple children who cannot pay for district heating; about those who are always musty because of the lack of heating, they always have an unhealthy apartment, for whom asthma is given to their children; it would also help those whose electric clock has already been discharged, but they cannot recover it, even if they could pay their debts. This proposal is also about those who have been counted among the people who we say they do not owe, while this is a statistical error, or not a mistake, but it is on purpose, who are simply turned off from the service, where they say that they no longer owe statistically, otherwise they are in their unheated apartment. Ladies and gentlemen. We will resubmit, and we will ask for, the series of things to be included in this proposal, and we will ask that, at least in this way, with Advent and Christmas approaching, the government, who says very often very loudly how important Christian values are to him, may also be a little self-conscious and see that this is not a political issue that something should be done in this matter. They see that at least so much should be done in this matter that they will allow this proposal to be discussed before Parliament. Then tell me what's wrong with him, what's wrong with him, what's wrong with him, what's wrong with him, but the fact that he's just being thrown out of this proposal for the seventh time now, while every winter people freeze in their own apartment, is still, I think, inhumanity. I therefore appeal to their humanity and ask you to convince your fellow factions and government to at least get this proposal here and try to make people's lives better. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I don't know, maybe save him. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-28-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, will respond to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-28-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Before I tell you how many steps the government has taken and takes to ensure that winter is not a huge burden for people in difficulty, but they can survive it without any illness or adverse consequences, allow me to hold a mirror to the MSZP for humanity - because you gave this title to your speech. I would not like to say my own words, but I would like to quote the words of Zsuzsa Ferge, a sociologist close to MSZP, what he saw as a human being in the MSZP in 2008. He says, literally, that Hungary - and the then, obviously socialist government - was the only state that suffered a crisis that did nothing, nothing at all, not a single straw of matches in order for something to happen to the obvious losers of the crisis. There's never been a country like this before. Tell me this about Zsuzsa Ferge. At least everywhere, unemployment benefits or relief or something else have been extended. As a result, we had a particularly high risk for the poor. "The left-wing sociologist says this about the left-wing government. This shows that the MSZP's behaviour is very cynical, as before its governance, it says slowly and in part that there will be no gas price increase, then it increases the price of electricity to double, raises the price of gas to triple, and then teaches others about humanity. As a result of your policy, families have spent a quarter of their income, half of the less wealthy, who managed to manage this, and they have had to do all this in order to guarantee the profits of the public utility service providers that were privatised during the Horn government, and so they have made a profit of HUF 1000 billion in total. Because if the decision had to be made between the people and the multinationals, then the socialist government had always chosen the interests of the multinationals, not only in setting the rents, but also in the home creation system or in foreign currency lending. As a result of this reduction, all consumers in Hungary have lost their overhead bill, electricity, natural gas and district heating. Large family members have a special discount, large family-residual support, which reduces their spending even beyond what I have described. That's exactly what the state is paying, or it's providing cover for big families instead of families. Today, the average cost of heating is 25 percent less, and with free firewood and coal we can help those who could not use the other kind of discount. If we look at how gas and electricity prices have developed, the highest price in Hungary was one of the highest in terms of electricity, but today, due to the reduction of electricity, the sixth lowest in the case of electricity, and the third lowest in the case of natural gas, the third lowest in the European Union. Between 1 January 2013 and 31 October this year, Hungarian families saved HUF 1133 billion. This is a larger amount than any proposal, HUF 1133 billion, which is left in the pocket of Hungarian families. This did not migrate abroad, it did not land in the pockets of French, German, English or other companies, but this 1133 billion HUF remained with Hungarian families. Everyone can see this from month to month, because the gas bill, the electricity bill, also includes the monthly amount and the aggregate amount of money that each person could save by saying that Fidesz-KDNP dared to oppose the multinational companies and dared to represent the interests of the Hungarian people. [[9.10]] He referred to the backwards consumers. Let's see what's real. In the case of natural gas, the number of back-up consumers decreased by 300,000, the value of the debt decreased by nearly HUF 20 billion. In the case of electricity, the number of back-up consumers decreased by 260 thousand, and the debt was reduced by 12.5 billion. In the case of district heating, it also decreased by 20,000 people, and the amount of debts decreased by HUF 3 billion. So we were able to help these families who had problems with their rent before. For the social fuel contest, HUF 4 billion was announced, and for energy modernisation HUF 50 billion was announced. We have launched the program of the heat at home, which allows families to save between 150 and 180 thousand forints with household machines. These were meaningful steps. And the socialists' certificate of humanity was issued by Zsuzsa Ferge himself, who ignored people by helping them in all other countries of the European Union [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] for poor people, it was only the socialist government that forgot about people in difficulty. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-28-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The Government is not prepared for the global security policy challenges that Mrs Márta Demeter has put forward before the agenda. Congresswoman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2017-11-28-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear that the government has no response to the 21st century. The challenges facing Europe of the century and Hungary in it. Let us ask how Hungary is protected from cyber attacks, for example. Will the army now be set up with its horse platoons? You're gonna protect him with a five hundred-horse stud? Let's ask how the country is protected from organized crime groups or alien secret services. Perhaps with the settlement bond structure, the money laundering scheme that the Hungarian state has already lost 18 billion dollars? With the construction by which the Orbán government organised immigration, because it allowed 20,000 people into Hungary and Europe without effective control? In the meantime, Viktor Orbán will vote for everything in the European Council without exception, and in doing so he will conduct an anti-immigration campaign of 10 billion, while the Orbán government itself is selling Hungary's sovereignty for its own financial gain. How do you protect the country from Russian influence, foreign influence? Maybe Paks II? Or perhaps by allowing Russian diplomats to practice with extreme organisations in Bőny, while Hungarian authorities do not take any action, then Hungarian diplomacy does not take any action after a tragedy occurs? For example, how do they protect the security of mission soldiers? How will they be provided with supplies when there are no suitable transport machines? Maybe they're doing this with the technical tools on the 40-year-old ventilator? Let us ask how the government ensures the security of foreign representations. We remember the security gaps and anomalies of the Hungarian embassy in Tashkent, where the importance of counterintelligence also arises. Compared to this, the Constitutional Protection Office refused to even examine the case on my signal. Is this how you protect the security of foreign representations? Or let's see how they protect the country from wanted criminals, such as a wanted criminal for terrorist financing. How did you protect him from Ghaith Pharaon? Or even Zaid Naffa, we know he's a security risk, but he's still a social worker. may act as a consul in Hungary. How do they do that? In addition, these people may still be able to shop near Zsolt Semjén and Viktor Orbán, besides Viktor Orbán Ghaith Pharon, he could buy land and business with Viktor Orbán's son-in-law. Or how does the government respond to the fact that the Hungarian Prime Minister himself could pose a national security risk? There is no guarantee that this is not the case, as to this day he is the only Prime Minister of Hungary who has not undergone a national security screening. Or how do they protect Hungary from secret pacts? How are Hungarian people protected from debt? Like Paks II? Or the Budapest-Belgrade railway line? So it is clear that there is no governance in Hungary. The Hungarian government carries out activities organised in criminal logic. Fidesz broke down Hungary's security system, and where it is the infinite incompetence that characterizes the government, because only political loyalty counts in security organizations, and where the government itself consciously provides the security of Hungarian people for the financial benefit of certain business circles. I'm asking you, how do you protect the country with paper cartons? Consulting records? Is this how you fight the battle? It is clear that the government itself appoints false enemies that it can show off its power while ignoring the real dangers. The Hungarian government itself sells the sovereignty of the country and sells it for the financial gain of a narrow circle of security. Only a fragile, incompetent and power-shaking government does that. This is the biggest national security risk in Hungary today. They're just holding their own camp together for public money. We need urgent solutions. Following the change of regime in 2018, LMP will rebuild Hungary's security system. This is not an easy task, but it can be achieved through consistent work. There will be accountability, and every political and professional officer involved in selling the country's security will be held accountable. Politics and the profession must be separated. We will create an effective system of protection against foreign influence [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] security protocols will be implemented, and we will build a safe Hungary by restoring the trust of society in security institutions. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-28-6	Thank you, Congresswoman. State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-28-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Today there are two kinds of countries in Europe and the world. There's security in one country, there's no security in the other. Today, Hungary is internationally recognised as one of the safest countries in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In 2010, when we came to government, we said that we would restore order and security in Hungary, strengthen the police and create strict laws. In this context, more than 7,000 police officers are serving in Hungary today. We've strengthened the security of the country. Anytime today, people can go out on the street, they're safe, there's no need to fear that their safety is at risk. We acted immediately in 2015 on the emergence of the migration threat. We created the triple defense, built the fence, built the lively defense, and created the legal barrier. We have recognised that there is a link between migration and terrorism, and we have acted immediately. Today we can say that the Hungarian model is being followed throughout Europe, recognising the efforts that Hungary has made to ensure its safety. With the adoption of the anti-terrorist package and the legal border seal, the government has created a guarantee legislative environment to reduce the security risks associated with migration, and no one should enter the territory of the country and Europe uncontrolled. In 2010, we set up the Counter-Terrorism Center. In 2016, we established the Counter-Terrorism Information and Crime Analysis Centre to prevent cyber attacks. On 1 October 2015, the National Cyber Protection Institute, Madam Representative, began to operate, and it is also important to stress that we provide unprecedented resources to police, law enforcement and services in order to ensure that Hungary and the Hungarian people are safe. From 1 July 2015, the new Service Act entered into force, which announced a new career and career programme for the professional staff of law enforcement agencies and for soldiers. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In this context, we promised an average salary increase of 50 per cent. We are currently carrying out an average salary increase of 40 per cent. [[9.20]] From 1 January 2018, an additional average salary increase of 5 per cent will be granted to members of the professional staff and an additional salary increase of 5 per cent on 1 January 2019. In this way, we will be able to achieve the promise set out in the law that, on average, until 1 January 2019, we will provide a 50% salary increase for members of the professional staff. Next year, there will be more money for law enforcement and security than for the most important community value. The government shall provide the necessary budgetary resources. In 2018, law enforcement agencies and services will receive HUF 62.6 billion more funding from the budget compared to 2017. In particular, more than HUF 1.4 billion will be added to the implementation of the anti-terrorist measures. The number of crimes is decreasing both numerically and appreciably. The number of crimes in the public domain decreased by 54 percent and the number of crimes in the high places decreased by nearly 50 percent. Hungary, the Hungarian police and Hungarian law enforcement agencies have been able to achieve these results by paying particular attention to border protection since the autumn of 2015. The police, border guards, border fighters, protect the Schengen border, protect Hungary's borders, and improve the security of the Hungarian people. As to your false comment on the settlement obligation, I would like to say here that four times the number of people who have had such an opportunity has not been able to enter the country unchecked. I also completely reject the fact that the Prime Minister of Hungary is a national security risk. Viktor Orbán is Hungary's Prime Minister, the most important guarantee of Hungarian national security, honourable Member. I can answer that remark. He is also doing everything in his power to ensure that Hungary, the Hungarian people, is safe. If the security of the Hungarian people and Hungary were really important to you, then the MEPs in the European Parliament would not vote for a pro-immigration proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Speaking on the present and future of basic supply from the Jobbik Group, Mr Rig Lajos has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-28-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Fellow Members! I think, Mr. Secretary, that we can agree on the thesis of when a basic supply is strong and well-functioning. If it is well founded, it works safely, it is available to everyone, the existence of the workers in it is guaranteed, and the doctor and nurse have appropriate competences. If we look at the events of the past years, we can see that more and more practices that have been vacant for a long time, for more than half a year, and that whatever measures the government has taken, their uploads have unfortunately failed. It was in vain that if a GP applied for a permanently unfilled practice, he could receive double funding for a year because he couldn't upload cards, so he couldn't pay for either the practice or his assistant, so he was left alone again. I do not think that the practices are a solution either, which has emerged from the government side, in order to reduce these problems. If we look at the cords of the general practitioners who are currently working in the system, we can see terrible data. The average age is 56 years in practice, and most pensioners are already thinking about stopping practicing permanently. So within a few years, the fate of about 2,200 practices could be in question. If we were to see if the money we put into this system and tried to put it into operation went to the right place, we could say that it wasn't; because if we had given the right amount of money to the system, it wouldn't be a problem. I think that if you do not have a health programme that allows you to see in it what vision you have in three to four or five years' time, no matter how much money you have, the system itself is not sustainable. In my constituency there are three major cities: Ajka, Tapolca and Sümeg. Aykhan's GP problem is not present, it was in Tapolca a few years ago, then a pediatric ward had to be removed, and four districts turned into three, one of which was an unfilled practice. For several years, we drove the pediatricians to try to come to us and thrive there, and one was difficult. But in the third city of my constituency, Sümegen, there has been a huge problem. There were three general practitioners, one of whom had gone to another practice, for some reason it must have been more tempting, one announced that he would retire from December, and there was only one general practitioner who was retired, and he was also thinking about leaving in the near future. This is a huge problem that the municipality has to deal with. Government plans put this small town in such danger that it won't be able to come out of this. There would be a lot of opportunities to change the situation. If you think back, Mr. Secretary, in the 1990s, the field of general health proved to be relatively good, since doctors working in hospitals went out to fill up their general medical practices. This trend has stopped for some reason. Why did you stop? After all, with this funding, the general practitioner cannot manage to maintain his office, pay rent, buy ECG and other equipment, and even raise his assistant's salary. The state didn't plan to raise the wages of these health workers, so it's his job to manage it. But there would be a solution that would ease the issue of general practitioners, and that would be the web doc, which has been happening a lot of times. The only way to reduce the administrative burden is by increasing the professional population by the general practitioner. This means that he would not be working with one assistant, but with at least two, so that the stockboard system to be introduced for the future, which also puts a heavy burden on the shoulders of the general practitioners, would help to alleviate the situation. The increased funding, the double assistant and the reduction of administrative burden could be a real problem-solving proposal, which could be used at some level to stop GPs from leaving the given area, to boost the conclusion that freshly graduated specialists will end up in practice and not only increase hospital staff, and to ensure that Hungary's health situation does not deteriorate further. I'll go back to my first sentence: the measure of good basic care is to stand on strong, stable legs and have a proper team of professionals. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-28-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, will respond to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-28-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government's aim is to ensure that the health care that often seems a little upside down pyramid, and that basic care - which is most important, since it reaches most people - also has an important function in prevention, it performs an extremely important task of realizing in time - should be as strong as possible, so we started with a very consistent, multi-annual programme to make Hungary's basic supply more effective, and the general medical practices feel much safer. One part of this was the additional resources - here I would like to update the Member's speech, as he was trying to outline a state of four or five years ago - so we have been trying to make the practices payable from extra resources. Here, we have also included new incentives. On the other hand, innovations and improvements have also appeared in basic care, which is in the interest of patients. It was important to settle the situation of the basic supply at the statutory level, giving its weight. A new Basic Supply Act has been established. Over the past period, the funding fee for GP practices has increased by 61.9 percent compared to 2010. So, not one-and-a-half times, more than that, 61.9 percent is now able to farm more than one-and-a-half GP practice. It came out that, for the first time in 2015, then for the second time in 2016, then for the third time in 2017, and next year, in the 2018 budget, we will increase the funding fee for GP practices for the fourth time. The essence of this is that GPs can count more than 130 thousand forints a month, and this is four times 130 thousand forints a month in four years. This will also be seen in the monthly management framework, which will be presented later. In addition, we have tried to encourage doctors to settle in practices that have been unfilled for a long time. This year was the first year when this amount, fortunately, was over-subscribed by the general practitioners. This has worked in previous years. Overall, 198 practices were supported by public non-refundable grants for both the costs of establishment and the costs of purchasing a practice. [[9.30]] But while last year we spent 750 million forints on this, this year, under new, more favourable conditions, there was no longer enough HUF 1 billion for the establishment proposal, which had to be increased by another HUF 1 billion. So far, and far from the end of the year and at the end of the tendering procedures, we have paid HUF 840 million for residency applications. This is very good news, as this shows that more and more doctors are using it. You can get a maximum of HUF 20 million for the costs of establishment, and you can spend it on whatever you want; if you want, for a clinic, if you want, for housing, if you want to buy a car or anything to facilitate your establishment, you can cover HUF 20 million if you restart a practice that has been empty for several years. So this is a happy news that there were finally so many applications, until 11 November 162 applications - this is very, very, very high - for settlement applications. This means that we can complete 162 practices through this application. If we didn't have a residency application, obviously we wouldn't be able to fill these or a good part of them. But it's a good, successful program. The task is very big, as you said, here we can count on an ageing GP community - if you would listen, Congressman, I would be honored. So here we can count on an ageing community, but this year we can provide at least 162 communities, i.e. local patient groups with a general physician in the coming years. Protective care is also part of the basic care, with a 40% increase in funding. Look at the budget laws, honourable Member, and you can see for yourself: the 2010 Budget Act included HUF 79 billion in general medical care, which is now 122 billion, instead of 79 billion this year. For protective care also: 25.3 billion forints instead of 17.9 billion. If you look at the pay-per-view of each practice, this is important because, as you said, there is also a tendency to go from the hospital to a general medical practice, so a hospital doctor becomes a general physician, it is important that your income is competitive with your hospital income, which is also rising. In the last two years, the basic fee for doctors has increased by HUF 207 thousand, and this is obviously even higher with the various mobile rent elements, on-call fees and so on. Well, this should be a competitive way of financing a practice, which is not a wage, not the total cost of the general practitioner, which was HUF 867 570 per month in 2010. This year it rose to HUF 1 406 317 in Hungary. That's a lot more than a GP can manage. And as I said, next year's budget law contains surpluses, and in the field of innovations, we have created community practices that can be a model of the future, and we are confident that we will be able to introduce them in more and more settlements. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-28-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group of the KDNP, with the title of Persuasion or Consuasion, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Mr. Team Leader, here you go. You have the floor.
u2017-11-28-13	Mr President, Fellow Members! There's a campaign - unofficial, but real. Such a campaign shows the organization, strength, integrity or lack of political power. The campaign simplifies and sharpens the questions, the struggle is tough, but it can still be fair. The question is, what means does a political force use in this campaign, a means of persuasion or deception. Today, the main topic of the campaign is illegal migration, as in most European countries. The two sides express their message and solution, of course the idea behind it can also be seen, and its means become evident. Let us now overlook the interests of Europe's de-stability and try to focus on both sides' campaigns. What does the civil, national Christian side say about the situation? We say that the majority, the majority of immigrants, are not persecuted, but come to us in the hope of a better and easier life. This crowd is a great threat to Europe, to culture, to security, to our way of life. The Balliberal side says that they are persecuted refugees, and Europe desperately needs them. This is how the two political forces see the situation. What are your aspects? We say that national self-determination is an important aspect, we consider traditional values, communities and the protection of security to be important. The other side - just because it has cut its roots - considers open society's theory to be the center of its own identity and is thinking in a mixed society, which has proved to be inoperative. What do they suggest, and what do we propose for a solution? We are self-defense and local help, primarily helping Christian communities and creating orderly conditions. This is also shown by our support for charitable organisations that provide this assistance. After all, it has to be said that Christians never make local troubles. Finally, the question arises, which, I think, is the most important thing for us today, what tools the two sides are working with. Those who think hard and fight openly will face a camouflaged hate campaign resulting from this camouflage. The two are quite different instruments; because we see that those disguised as bureaucrats and politicians in the European Union are already trying to achieve results with the influence of bureaucrats and politicians, with fellow civilians disguised as civilians at home, who are pursuing political and ideal goals in this disguise. In this sense, I think a campaign, when any hard but open struggle is conducted by a political force, is fair. If he's disguising himself and pursuing his hate campaign, it's unfair. We've got six months to live on this campaign. I think all decent Hungarian people want it to be open and hard, but fair. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-28-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Mr Fraction Manager replied to his speech before the agenda by Secretary-General Bence Tuzson. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-28-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, You're absolutely right. Unfortunately, we are now part of a campaign in which disguise appears from the other side of the opposition. [[Moore in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] The reality is that the opposition representatives also show the constant denial of reality; the constant denial of reality, because you also remember what the socialists used to call immigration. Immigration is a false problem, they said, created by Fidesz. How are we with the mandatory quota? The issue of compulsory quota was also constantly denied. We are now at the same time that there is an ongoing debate within the political left on whether there is a compulsory quota or not. But there is also an obvious example of this, because the European Parliament has adopted a decision on this issue, in which it has decided on a compulsory quota, and has launched the legislative process that will lead to a compulsory quota. And what are we witnessing now? To deny the existence of the Soros plan is almost all opposition representatives, all opposition forces. By the way, Jobbik joined this last time, when our colleague Zsolt Egyed explained yesterday that the fact of the Soros plan and the related national consultation is nothing more than alarm, said Zsolt Egyed yesterday. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Why are you doing all this? - the question comes up. Why is George Soros doing this? As our fellow Member has just said, it is really worth studying, paying attention to what George Soros wrote in his book "The Open Society," how he expressed his position leading to the abolition of nations. He took a position, a theory that is based on an open society where nations disappear, and in Europe only a mass is formed, where there are no Hungarians, no Germans, no Austrians, no Romanians, just a mass without nations. The Hungarian opposition parties joined this fight, as György Soros also explained that the instrument which is the instrument of intervention in internal affairs should not be rejected. [[9.40]] We must not forget that there is huge financial resources available to implement this plan, because, ladies and gentlemen, HUF 4800 billion [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Forint 4800 billion is the amount that George Soros has transferred to his own foundation. To put this into writing and understand the amount of money we are talking about: this is the amount that Hungarian taxpayers can put together in personal income tax in three years. We are talking about this amount, which George Soros transferred with only one signature. The European Parliament, implementing certain elements of the Soros plan, has now adopted a decision once again, and the essence of this decision is compulsory resettlement. The European Parliament is proposing a compulsory resettlement system which will be targeted at Hungary. It comes to its target by giving priority to countries where immigrants are not yet present. Moreover, this plan will also facilitate family reunification, which will enable more people to arrive within the territory of the European Union. With this plan, this decision, they want to override the powers of nations, and they face all democratic principles, the fundamental principle of the European Union that the European Union is based essentially on the decision of the nations and not on the top of its head, the European decision-making mechanism has not turned around. There are nearly two million people who have already completed the national consultation questionnaire in Hungary. [[Interventions from the opposition side: No, it's not true! How many million? Sure, five million!]] The Hungarian people understand and understand that we are talking about an issue that is able to determine Hungary's fate not for a year or two, not for five or ten years, but also for fifty or 100 years. There are still a few days to fill in the national consultation questionnaires. I ask all Hungarian people who care about the future of Hungary [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to complete the national consultation questionnaire, because we can only stop Brussels, we can stop György Soros if we Hungarian people fight together. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The metro 4 issue entitled The biggest corruption scandal on the left from the Fidesz Group, Mr Gyula Budai applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. [[Noise, uproar, interrogations from the ranks of the MSZP. Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: The truth hurts! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2017-11-28-17	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, [[Dr. László Kács: What else is in Fidesz?]] The European Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF, found significant irregularities and errors in the construction of Metro 4. According to the investigation conducted, one third of the 4th metro investment, 167 billion forints, was stolen and cheated. The threads of the case clearly lead to the Hungarian left. The contracts contested by OLAF were concluded from one to the other in the period 2002-2010. The European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control will discuss the OLAF report on Metro 4. The Metro Corruption Task Force of the Metro General Assembly sent the report to the committee last week on Friday. Not only has OLAF dealt with the case, according to the UK Office against Major Fraud, Alstom leaders have transferred EUR 2.7 million of bribes to various left-wing politicians in Hungary in connection with the metro investment. Of this, the company of Péter Medgyessy's former Prime Minister's wife received EUR 600 thousand, equivalent to HUF 180 million. The government filed a complaint, the National Bureau of Investigation investigates the construction of tunnels and stations, while the Central Bureau of Investigation investigates the acquisition of subway fittings. The biggest abuse in the purchase of metro trains was the largest item, a total of HUF 68 billion. For metro trains, the investor and BKV Zrt. has entered into a non-advantage contract which clearly raises a reasonable suspicion of a criminal offence. One of the most important points in this case is that, within one year of the conclusion of the contract, half of the purchase price had to be paid to the customer, or that the maximum penalty of 10 per cent of the contract price was completely unadvantaged by BKV Zrt. For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. [[It's constant noise.]] Alstom did not fulfil the technical parameters that the other bidders could have fulfilled in the course of the procedure, so it is quite clear that the investment was imposed on Alstom, which clearly proves that BKV Zrt. has done everything in its power to ensure that Alstom obtains the investment in relation to other bidders. It raises an interesting question as to why Alstom produced all the fittings specified in the contract - line M2, line M4, line M4, two times 22 trains - before having the type license. The requirement for the production of fittings is to grant a type-approval. However, this has happened. That also raises probable cause of the crime. BKV Zrt. On 20 October 2010, on the basis of the founding decision of the Metropolitan Assembly, the agreement was terminated due to the non-compliance of the supplier with the contract, the lack of obtaining type licences. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Alstom case is the biggest corruption scandal of all time in Hungary. Based on the investigations conducted by the various committees, it is clear that the responsibility lies with the Medgyessy, Gyurcsány, Bajnai governments and with the MSZP-SZDSZ city administration led by Gábor Demszky. In this case, nothing could have happened without the approval of former prime ministers or Mayor Gábor Demszky. Only the fact that the Socialist Heads of Government and the fallen mayor of the capital, Gábor Demszky, have been involved in this case indicates that this case has been completely through the left. Dear Secretary of State, We need to find out where the billions went. The Hungarian public rightly claims information, rightly claims who is responsible for the missing billions, who is responsible for Hungary's biggest corruption scandal. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Csepreghy, Minister of State, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-11-28-19	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, We are not only talking about Hungary's biggest corruption case in the metro area, but we are talking about such financial abuse, such theft, fraud and irregularities within the European Community. On the basis of the documents published today, it is clear that the pre-2010 city leadership and the governments led by the pre-2010 Medgyessy, Gyurcsány and Bajnai prime ministers, who have not only turned a blind eye to this corruption issue, but also supported this process in concrete terms on the basis of the documents published by the European Commission's anti-fraud organisation OLAF. We are talking about nothing less than the fact that 166 billion forints were stolen, cheated or used illegally from the 4th metro investment cost of 452 billion forints. The number is also significant from the point of view, because when this investment was essentially estimated in 2002 as to how much it would cost Hungarian taxpayers, we met with the same number. Thus, the total investment cost, which was estimated in 2002, was specifically stolen by 2010. However, it is not enough that this damage has been suffered by Hungarian taxpayers, and today there is even a risk that Hungarian taxpayers will be punished for an additional HUF 59 billion due to the crime of the governments before 2010 and of the pre-2010 city administration. [[9.50]] The government will do everything in its power to reduce this penalty, as this HUF 59 billion would be missed by Hungarian taxpayers as well as missing from the Hungarian budget and various developments as the stolen HUF 166 billion is missing. As you said, Mr President, there have been several complaints in this matter, most recently following the receipt of the OLAF report, Minister Lazarus, following the government's decision, filed a complaint with the prosecutor's office. We believe that the D.A. can shed light on the question of who is the specific person responsible for this case and who might be the ones who can be claimed back from the stolen public funds. I would like to remind the public of the Parliament that the Parliament's Economic Committee has tried to explore the metro area in several circles. [[It's constant, it's loud. The president's ringing the bell.]] abuse, but neither Ferenc Gyurcsány, nor Gordon Bajnai, nor Gábor Demszky, nor Csaba Horváth, nor Miklós Hagyó, nor Gy. Erzsébet Németh didn't show up at this committee hearing, and if anyone did, they would know for sure where the subway money went. In addition, Mr President, as you have mentioned, the capital has completed the examination committee work that has resulted in the European Parliament's Budget Sub-Committee receiving a report that sheds light on the abuses committed in the capital and in the governments before 2010. We think that if this does not annihilate such crimes, perhaps it can try to move towards good intentions with regard to the European Commission, as it can show that Hungarian taxpayers should not be fined another HUF 59 billion, but the Hungarian taxpayers and the Hungarian government should be supported in order to get to the bottom of this matter and actually pay this penalty by those who have committed the crimes to such a degree. Today, instead of speaking to left-wing representatives and former left-wing prime ministers, left-wing city leaders, we still have a lot of questions. These are the following. On the one hand, where did the subway money go? Through what mediation systems, which party box of left-wing parties or which left-wing politicians have metro money in their pockets? What did the former politicians in MSZP, DK and SZDSZ know about the journey of this money, whether they have taken home from it, or are they willing to speak in order to save 59 billion forints in addition to the 166 billion forints they have stolen, to protect the Hungarian taxpayers? I think that the Hungarian Parliament must see clearly and see clearly to the Hungarian public in the biggest corruption case following the 1990 regime change, and we will do everything we can to recover the stolen money on the one hand, and to protect Hungary from the penalties, from the additional HUF 59 billion. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. Please take your seats, check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machine, because we are now, at 9:53 p.m., continuing our work with regular decisions. Dear Parliament, The T/18306. on the announcement of the Protocol between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Mongolia on the settlement of bilateral international treaties between Hungary and Mongolia. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/18306 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 155 votes against, 3 votes against, without abstention. Following in line with the opening of the second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, dated 20 April 1959, T/18301. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/18301. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill with 170 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. In line with the resolution No 4 of 1965 published in New York on the announcement of the amendment to the Single Convention on Drugs dated 30 March 1961, T/18299. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/18299 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill with 170 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Following in a row, T/18300 announced by Decree-Law No 25 of the year, on the announcement of the amendment to the Convention on Psychotropic Substances signed in Vienna on the 21st day of February 1971. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/18300 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 169 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Following a series of articles, T/18303 between the Government of the People's Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Cuba on the repeal of Decree-Law No 16 of 1969 on the publication of the Convention on Health Cooperation in Budapest on 15 June 1966 Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/18303. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 169 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The Hungarian and the People's Republic of China T/18304 on the announcement of the Agreement on the promotion of the educational activities of the University of Chinese Medicine of Heilongjiang in Hungary. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/18304. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 145 votes in favour, 24 against and without abstentions. It follows that T/18308 on the amendment of certain transport-related laws will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/18308/5. T/18308/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/18308/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 115 votes in favour, 2 against and 51 abstentions. [[10.00]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1830/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 116 votes in favour, 2 against and 52 abstentions. It follows that Act C of 2015 on Hungary's central budget for 2016 will be implemented by T/17578. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1757/83 of the Committee on Budgets and T/1757/83 of its summary report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Committee on Budgets will accept T/1757/83. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 116 votes in favour, 29 against and 25 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17578/34. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 116 votes in favour, 54 against and without abstentions. Next up is the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. T/1802 on the amendment of Act T/1802 and certain related laws Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/1802/7, and its summary report T/1802/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr István Ikotity. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 116 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1802/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 118 votes in favour, 28 against and 25 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1802/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 118 votes in favour, 28 against and 25 abstentions. It follows from the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. T/18307. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/18307. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 139 votes in favour, 25 against and 7 abstentions. It follows that T/1809 on the amendment of certain laws to improve the competitiveness of agriculture will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment is T/18099/8 and T/18099/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Fidesz Group, pursuant to Article T/1809/8. A separate vote was initiated on point 12 of the summary amendment proposal. We will decide on this first and then we will decide on further points in the summarised amendment proposal. In point 12 of the summary amendment proposal, the committee shall adopt the bill 20. The Commission proposes to amend the provisions of §8 of the Act. We'll decide at Fidesz's request. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 12 of the summarised amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 117 votes in favour, 27 against and 29 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1809/8. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 117 votes in favour, 1 against and 55 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1809/11. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 117 votes in favour, no votes against, with 56 abstentions. A series of amendments to the law on the extension of early life support for young people T/1799. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17997/6, and T/17997/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Lajos Korózs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 67 votes in favour, 105 against and without abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/17997/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 152 votes in favour, no votes against, with 21 abstentions. Dear Parliament, I'll inform you... [[It's constant noise.]] Fellow Members, are you listening? I would like to inform you that the house rules are 51. Paragraph 1 of the Act provides that the author is to apply the provisions of Article T/17997/10. has initiated a postponement of the final vote. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before making a decision, I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to explain the reasons for his initiative. [[No signal.]] He doesn't want it. Then it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1799 postpones. The final vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote. Result appearing on the board: 119 yes, 29 no, 23 stays.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's final vote on the proposal by 119 votes in favour, 20 Postponed against 23 abstentions. [[10.10]] It follows that T/18298 on transitional rules for sanctions for administrative infringements and amending certain laws and repealing certain acts in the context of the reform of administrative procedural law. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/18298/4 of the legislative committee's summary amendment report is T/18298/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/18298/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 122 votes in favour, 28 against and 22 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/18298/6 accepts it. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 119 votes in favour, 26 against and 28 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next up is T/18275 on increased criminal protection against sexual violence against children under the age of 12. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/18275/6. T/18275/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/18275/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 173 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/18275/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 173 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Next up is T/1831 on the modification of individual family support and other laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/18312/10, and T/18312/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 3 and 4. We'll vote on these first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Lajos Korózs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 111 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 4 is proposed by Lajos Korózs and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 115 against and without abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/18312/10. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 170 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/18312/13. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 173 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows that T/18314 on the amendment of certain cultural and sporting laws, as well as certain related laws, will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/18314/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/18314/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 138 votes in favour, 25 against and 9 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/18314/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 137 votes to 27, with seven abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles on the measures needed by Lajos Korózs, MSZP and its fellow Members to create a fair and equitable pension system and to support the livelihood of the elderly and caregivers in need. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not take the proposal for a resolution into consideration by 58 votes in favour, 113 against and without abstention. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by Mrs Bernadett Szél and her fellow Members on the T/16202 amendment of individual laws to assist single parents. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote. Result appearing on the board: 59 yes, 109 no, 2 stays.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's bill with 59 votes in favour, 102 has not been included in a series of subjects against or with 2 abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by Mrs Dóra Dúró and her fellow Members on the need to expand family support. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 57 votes in favour, 112 against and 1 abstention. I ask you, will the Visegrad Group be included in a series of articles by Congressman Gábor Vona and his fellow Members H/17902 on reinforcement and enlargement A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution in series by 54 votes in favour, 115 against and 1 abstention. [[10.20]] Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of today's decisions. Now it's a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Several Members leave the room. It's a lot of noise.]] I would ask my fellow Members in this Chamber to take their seats so that we can continue today's work. Dear Parliament, Next, the 1990 XCIII on levies. Act and Act LXXVII of 2017 amending certain tax laws and other related laws General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission submitted by our Fidesz colleagues György Balla and László Kucsák T/18539. is available to all of us on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman György Balla, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-28-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I think that even opposition representatives do not doubt that Fidesz and the government are constantly taking family-friendly measures that help everyone to get their own home. It wasn't always like that. We can all remember that the socialist governments abolished the interest-supported credit system, abolished the tax subsidies linked to the purchase of housing and basically pushed half the country into a currency trap. On the other hand, I think it is clear today that we are living in a completely different world. The government and Fidesz, with Parliament's decisions, are making every effort to ensure that as many people as possible can get their own new homes. Without the need for completeness, let me give you just a few examples, honourable Members. Let's start with the CHOK. The CSOK will provide grants of up to HUF 10 million for those who buy new apartments and can also receive a similar amount of subsidised loans. So far, about 60,000 families have taken advantage of this opportunity. There are 60,000 families in Hungary today that have already been able to make use of this opportunity, who could have a new home because these proposals were made, and these proposals were accepted by Parliament and the government. But in the same way, I think it was a great help to reduce VAT at the time and at the present time, which, in connection with both the purchase of land, the purchase of construction materials and the VAT on the invoices issued by the service provider, will otherwise waive the obligation to pay VAT up to HUF 5 million, and will return HUF 5 million in Hungarian to those who build or buy new apartments. We can still talk about the house savings, talk about the house cafeteria. It helps a lot of employees that, as a cafeteria, their employer can provide them with a service that can devote 100% of the amount paid by their employer to the repayment of their credit. A lot of people are using it, and I think it's a very serious opportunity. We can also talk about interest-supported loans, which cannot be compared with foreign exchange-based loans imposed by the socialists on people. This interest rate is fixed. You know exactly how much you have to pay for it, and in the first five years when you repay the loan, part of the interest is even borne by the State. Ladies and gentlemen, The line could continue for a long time, but I only told you this because the current bill is small, but it is definitely a step in the direction of helping people again. The system has worked before, and it is perfectly normal that if someone bought an apartment and, of course, sold his previous apartment, then they had to pay the acquisition fee only after the difference between the two. True, there was an interval, a one-year interval, during which he could do so. So if he sold his apartment, he had to buy a new apartment within a year. In itself, the fact that there is such an interval is perfectly normal, since no one wants to use such systems for any type of abuse. However, you have to face the fact that there is an acquisition of housing, when this one-year period has proved to be quite simply narrow, in the most entrepreneurial building of a condominium, where a substantial amount of money is required to get in at the start of the project, everyone who lives in the condominium, and then, as appropriate, the condominium is completed at some point, obviously not within a year, after which the final contract can be concluded, the property is acquired. This meant that anyone who acquired a new apartment in this form slipped out of a year, could not validate the value of his previously sold apartment in Hungarian in the reduction of taxes, although, as a matter of fact, there must have been a lot of people who were able to start the whole thing by selling the apartment, and obviously until their new apartment was completed, either in rent or in parents' homes, or to solve their housing according to their taste and opportunity. The current bill does nothing but eliminate this small error, increasing this possibility to three years. So it is safe to say that if the opposition groups and the ruling parties will support this opportunity, the parliament will accept this proposal in Hungarian, then there cannot be a circle in Hungary that cannot benefit from this tax reduction. I call for the support of the government and opposition representatives, as well as, as appropriate, the pro-government representatives. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-28-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, if you wish to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[10.30]]
u2017-11-28-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear tableds, The government has already helped families to build homes by a number of means, and continues to pay attention to encouraging home buyers with tax instruments. Congressman Balla has discussed these options in detail and the choices that home buyers can make. The bill submitted is, of course, in line with government objectives that favour home creation. The motion will help individuals to buy housing, as it will increase the period from one year to three years during which the former apartment must be sold in order to take into account its value as a tax reduction factor in the calculation of the levy. The tax adjustment will be validated when buying both new and used apartments. First, the purchase of the apartment requires a source, the extension of the deadline helps individuals - I give an example: families buying larger homes because of the birth of their children - who sell their former apartments before buying them. At the same time, of course, individuals who sell their old apartment after buying the apartment can still benefit from the tax advantages. However, in their case, the time limit for sale remains one year. The change in the tax rate under the bill is in line with the government's ideas of supporting families to access the right housing and home creation. Therefore, the government agrees with the proposal, supports it, and asks the Hungarian Parliament to do so. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr László Kucsák. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-28-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As my colleague György Balla pointed out in his speech, Fidesz has always been on the side of families, and we have supported those who want to get their own home by every means possible. As a result of the government's family-friendly measures, more than HUF 200 billion is already available in the budget this year, and next year more than HUF 220 billion has been allocated. CSOK can be requested by Hungarian families on more favourable terms from 15 September 2016. Thanks to this, we have been able to support more than 60,000 families' access to housing through the CSOK. It can also be detected in my home, in my constituency, in the 18th century. in the district, Pestszentlőrincen and Pestszentimrén; I think my fellow Members will also experience it at home, walking around their homes. The socialist governments, on the other hand, abandoned the people. The home creation system we have built has been abolished and foreign currency lending has been offered instead, which has caused many families to be in a very difficult situation during the crisis. In order to prevent this from happening again, besides many other measures, the Hungarian National Bank has created a consumer-friendly housing credit rating, which can only be obtained by housing loans that meet strictly defined conditions. These include a clause for equal monthly instalments, the duration of the interest period is only 3, 5 and 10 years, or maximizing the payment fee in HUF 150 thousand. Dear House, The current legislation also provides a number of other discounts for real estate buyers. These are the rules for the construction of new apartments, according to which customers were able to apply a tax exemption of HUF 15 million up to the sales value, and between HUF 15-30 million a fee reduction of HUF 600 thousand. In addition to this regulation, there is the possibility of granting a tax reduction on the so-called replacement purchase, according to which the private buyer may reduce the tax base on the purchase of the dwelling by the value of the housing sold before or after the purchase. In the event that the owner sold his property and subsequently took part in an investment for the construction of a new apartment or house without completion within a year, the land office did not register its ownership on the new property, it did not have the opportunity to enforce this discount. The proposal aims to remedy this situation by extending the deadline for applying the fee reduction for replacement contracts to real estate sold within the three years preceding the purchase. Ladies and gentlemen, The extension of the fee reduction for replacement purchase fits well with the decision series that we have been helping Hungarian families to create homes since 2010, so the Fidesz faction supports the presentation. I would also like to ask my fellow Members of the opposition to do this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Józsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-28-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is very right that they have finally realised that there are market processes and that they operate independently of your will, and that it is worthwhile to bring regulation into line with the processes of life. There is little benefit for a person who is confined to time limits that, in most cases, cannot be enforced or, in many cases, cannot be enforced. Justice - and Hungary, under your leadership today, is a less just country, and I can even say that there is unfair social discrimination - is that small earners and small earners are unable to avail themselves of the advantages that you have in mind for the higher earners, the upper middle class. I ask you, why do they want to waste public money on the upper middle-class people, not the other way around, where it's needed more? When we put in the balance the replacement purchase or any other action that we are presenting here, we consider it very appropriate that this deadline be extended to three years, because what you started with the CSOK caused an incredible surge in the real estate market, which ended with an average increase of 15-20 percent in the prices of residential properties. So what you may now claim as a huge achievement, how much the discount has increased, will be carried away by the price increases you have generated. So who they helped, these economic analyses show exactly what they did. So they didn't help the people they said were able to get homes for young people with small money, but they raised the players in the housing market somewhere, but effectively. I don't know which side you're on. The point of this tax discount is that if a person has bought a new apartment before or after the sale of the apartment within a year, then the purchase of the new apartment does not require a levy on its total value, but can be deducted from the price of the property sold, it can be added to the balance. For example, if the new apartment is HUF 20 million, the apartment sold is HUF 15 million, then in the case of the example, it is only after HUF 5 million that you will have to pay the 4 percent acquisition fee, which, of course, may further decrease due to other discounts. At the same time, the expression of this income tax on access to the first apartment is rather strange. [[10.40]] So when it comes to buying apartments for the minimum conditions of life, I have the feeling that a distorted part of the Hungarian tax and tax laws comes with it. So this should be refined. The proposal also includes further technical amendments, including the case where a person sells and buys more apartments during this period of one or three years. Of course, this balance can only be taken into account for a transaction, which reflects business processes somewhere. Of course, it will continue to be tax - free if someone sells more expensive real estate to move to a cheaper apartment. In this case, too, the deadline will be increased to three years. The authors clearly did not say so, but they point out that the transfer of new-built real estate is indeed slowing down in the event of more and more investments, more than once due to a shortage of professional workers in the construction sector. Thus, many people are affected by the risk of slipping out of the reduced deadline, so the delays and delays in the construction sector are also in favour of increasing this equity deadline. On this basis, the MSZP faction supports this bill. Of course, what you have said in favour of him, I say that you should be more restrained, people can see exactly what you have done in the housing market, that you have raised prices, and that is not for the benefit of the majority of people. So I'd say back off, it's not your success story, what's happening on the housing market. So by making such a very appropriate little, lifelike correction, do not make the mistake that all their other actions are good, because they are little, they are hurting much more people than they favor. Think about it. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-28-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go.
u2017-11-28-29	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz-KDNP's firm and clear ambition is to make it easier and easier for Hungarian families to acquire housing. This is the priority of the family home-building discount that has already been introduced, as well as the introduction of the institutions of the national home-building community and the reduction of the general sales tax on each home-sale to 5 per cent. The bill before us, in line with the goal of Christian democrats, amends the rules on the tax relief of replacement purchases, the tax relief of private individuals when buying housing, by allowing the sale of three other apartments before the purchase of the apartment and within one year after the purchase of the apartment. The bill thus allows for a tax reduction or exemption for families who have not been able to own their other apartments within a year of the sale of their previous apartments without their own fault. The amended provision may be applied to the purchase of both used and new-built apartments. Ladies and Gentlemen, The essence of the tax relief for the so-called replacement purchase is that the individual buyer may reduce the tax base for the purchase of the apartment by the sales value of the apartment sold before or within one year of the purchase, so that, in the end, the transfer fee is payable only after the difference in the sales value of the apartments sold and purchased. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill therefore amends the rules on the tax relief for replacements and, on the other hand, the exemption for the acquisition of a flat with a lower turnover than the one sold by providing a longer period of time for the sale of housing before the purchase of the apartment. It is therefore proposed to take account of the sales value of the flat sold within the three years prior to the purchase, when establishing the preferential levy base and applying the exemption. However, the rules do not change that the sales value of the housing sold after the purchase of the dwelling can only be deducted from the levy base if it was sold within one year of the purchase. Ladies and Gentlemen, Thank you for all the keynote speeches and the government's support so far. I believe that a very important bill that we have ahead of us is why the Christian Democratic People's Party supports it. Thank you for your support and your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-28-31	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to point out that the Jobbik faction will support the bill before us. At the same time, I was a little surprised by the representatives of the governing parties that they are talking about a comprehensive, revolutionary, universally available discount, or at least this is being viewed, while it is actually an extension of a tax allowance that is absolutely justified by market conditions - I support it myself, perhaps it would have been possible to think about it a little earlier, but better late than never. [[András Tállai sneezes.]] Cheers. It should be noted that the market conditions that justify the introduction of this tax reduction have already existed since the introduction of CSOK, so there is a perfectly logical consequence ahead of us, and we will support this. At the same time, when Mr Balla said that the opportunities for similar preferences would open up to everyone here, at least one would keep his mouth shut a little, because what is going on here. The government, embracing a completely sick thinking world, is constantly chanting that the custom of Hungarian people is that they want to get their own property - of course, everyone wants to - but that they are guided solely by the acquisition of their own property, and you do not think that it is the natural human desire to live somewhere. In this way, the rental segment, the making available of rentals, is completely excluded from this flow diagram, while nothing supports your claim, there is no phenomenon that Hungarian people will be satisfied only and exclusively with own property or with nothing at all. What exists is that in Hungary the rental segment is significantly lower than in Austria or Germany, but this was not because of the lack of willingness of Hungarian people, but because of historical reasons that, quite simply, a decent rental program has not been placed on the table in recent decades. So when we talk about a tax reduction - and we support that - let us not say that the possibility of buying a new property opens up to a wide range of social groups, because that is not true. In Hungary, the typical living situation and the typical problem that comes up is that a young person or a young couple should be able to raise extra rents over HUF 100,000, and the least chance of buying new or any property on the market is very, very rarely possible without family help. That is why I would like to waver the pro-government representatives in this world of thinking about only getting their own home, because a very large part of Hungarian youth would be equally satisfied with a well-educated rental program, especially if we worked out that, after a few years of living, it would actually be possible to get access to the properties concerned at or above material prices. [[10.50]] Similar systems work in several European countries. I would add that I consider the benefit of the CSOK to be justified, and I do not feel that these investments are only in the luxury sector, as we received yesterday in an interpellation response. We never thought, never said that only the rich had the privilege of CSOK, we said that it could favor the upper middle class in a typical way. A discount of 10 million is likely to be used by those who cut their ax into the construction of high-value real estate or buy new-built real estate. It is perfectly natural for residents of the Frog's County panelhouses in Obuda to be unable to reach this $10 million discount. This does not mean that we would be sorry for those who receive it, but it means exactly what we say that from the amount of the CSOK discount that is equal to or less than the amount available in the budget, a comprehensive national rental program could be created without any obstacles in such a way that the invested budget forints would bring themselves back to the fullest extent, within two government cycles it is certain, but a good part of them could already be within one cycle. We also see that there should be a system of thinking, so I am pleased that some of the relevant professional proposals have been made by the rapporteur. With regard to VAT reductions, we are very pleased that the value of VAT has been reduced to 5% in a particular segment, but this is again favourable for new-built apartments. It is very difficult not to think about Mr. Garancsi's various real estate companies, or it would be very difficult not to think as a resident of Óbuda about the draft mobile barrier to be built on the coast of Rome, where, by the way, a change ban was imposed, but this was temporarily lifted to allow a real estate company close to one of your good friends to build a construction site, and then the change ban was again imposed as they were able to issue this permit. So what we see is that good friends, good acquaintances, stromones actually appear everywhere, whether it be real estate developments, whether it be a tobacco concession, whether it be a Hungarian land. So you're all over the place through your good friends, so it's very difficult to get started on this bill in good faith, although I'll try anyway. I would also like to translate a request to you, and that is to say that, in terms of real estate development, home creation, rental and so on, NOK should not be referred to as an achievement, since NOK is not a savings scheme. There's been a huge misunderstanding. In fact, a government- legitimized pilot play was introduced through the system, a consumer group-type institution which you have absolutely rightly banned with our support, more precisely: it would have been closer to me if we had banned the consumer groups as they are. You have reached the point that you have not allowed the creation of new ones. But one thing they did: they made it possible for companies managing consumer groups to play the Rogán Antalek State Ponzi scheme. This became NOK, where, in fact, they intend to purchase real estate from the investments of the group members concerned within the framework of an apartment lottery. This is far from the classic concept of house savings, in my opinion, in any case. What we see is that if Hungary, the Hungarian national economy, is able to bring into the system a state- legitimised pilot game, it is pathetic in itself, but it is a reference to this as a home creation achievement, it is quite amazing, especially after almost eight years of government. For the past eight years, you should be able to show much more in the area of home creation. There are also good measures. For example, in terms of employer's discounts, the possibility of spending on housing loan financing with a discount is an excellent and good idea. What is good, I always acknowledge, I do not dispute, or even consider it expansible if appropriate, and I can also indicate the budgetary resources for how this could be extended. But we also see that the real estate price increase has not only occurred on the market in terms of CSOK - this would have happened in part anyway, because there is a continuous buoyancy that, in my view, will not stand still until the next global economic crisis, and the real estate prices involved will rise - but because of the amazing labour shortage that is already affecting the construction sector in all its segments, will be much slower, the stages of its construction will be much more expensive after a time, and well-run construction companies will also suffer from the fact that they cannot work in a thoughtful way, structuredly, they simply cannot plan ahead, because along the country's elimination of the sector in the labour market is also continuous, and we do not experience very much steps that would affect this. To give a few tips to the government: the transformation, development of the college system, the conversion of vocational training. So there is also a mobile labour force in Hungary, where appropriate, but it is only a typical problem that a part of my family is szabolcsi, and in the villages there there is a non-skilled labour force, which is not mobile at the moment, but would be absolutely open to improving its skills and competences in the surrounding, not necessarily in big expectations or in county seats, but in the surrounding city after a series of college developments, and then within the segment it chooses, it will find its place in the labour market. I would add that abroad it has been promoted, stimulated and encouraged in terms of minimum professional wages and sectoral minimum wages. So, in the case of a welder, there was the expectation that if he got into the market after re-training or vocational training, he would be expected to achieve a net income level, how he could plan his life. In Hungary, there would also be no significant obstacle to at least thinking in a similar system, at least to continuing social and parliamentary debates. Until then, we will, of course, support this gesture, encouraging you to look at the system, and prevent you from making any kind of eulogy about the Hungarian situation of home creation, since we still have huge problems to solve. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-28-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-28-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are used to Fidesz bringing legislative proposals to this House in the form of individual motions. We are also used to the slippings of the Habony media and the Habony works being read with servitude by the Fidesz MEPs. But the reason why I asked to speak immediately after the main speakerial round is that here some great lies have been told, whether in the presentation of Congressman Balla or in the keynote speech of Congressman Kucsák. It was possible to say that socialist governments have thrown the Hungarian population into the trap of foreign exchange lending. Then let us be clear immediately at the beginning of this sleepy Tuesday morning debate that in 2001 the Fidesz government introduced the legal arrangement that gave Hungary the opportunity to lend foreign currency. So right here, we were able to run into a huge slide. The second is that after 2002 your libling - before György Matolcsy was the favourite central bank goods - was the result of the monetary policy of Zsigmond Járai and the Hungarian National Bank, which led by him, that the Hungarian families went towards foreign exchange lending because of the highly held interest rates. So, right from the beginning, let us be clear that you introduced this legal arrangement, and it was the Hungarian national banking monetary policy, which led by favourite central bank commodities, that took the Hungarian families towards foreign exchange lending. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2017-11-28-34	Thank you very much. A two-minute speech will be held by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-28-35	Mr President, Dear House, I followed the group dynamics here, at least I tried, and I see that the fellow Members of the Fidesz-KDNP do not really want to participate in this debate. But foreign currency lending would be one of the things where you should now defend the honour of the mundane, because, on the one hand, serious claims were made and, on the other hand, it is clear that there is a common responsibility and a responsibility for the large coalition between Fidesz and the MSZP in this regard. But let us not dispute Fidesz's responsibility in a totally justified way, as in 2001 the spirit was released from the bottle, including by allowing for a mass of unilateral treaty amendments. Then came an amazing balliberal economic era, when they let these so-called loans run up against all kinds of international signs, against domestic professional marks. So you could see that this was going to be a huge problem. But what is more, we have examined Parliament's minutes and press reports, and from that period, the period of the Gyurcsány-Bajna emergency era, there is no mass of strong opposition protests. We cannot find the fidesz amendment proposals, the rebellious speeches on the need to do something about this foreign exchange loan. [[11.00]] So you've been laying low in that particular grass until 2010 - I don't want to use stronger metaphors - and since 2010 you've started cosmeticizing the problem. But instead of forinting at the recording rate, they lied, for example, hiding behind the Curia, saying that something forced you to release the forinting and conversion of people at the market rate. That's a net lie. There was no such compulsion, no such pressure, no such legislative framework. If there was any pressure, it could have come from the one direction, the Bank Alliance and the EBRD. But if I'm allowed to do that, I don't want to say it very badly, it's kind of a bitch, if that's the case. I very much hope that this is not the case, and I very much hope that we can still intervene in this area. Yesterday we confronted the Prime Minister that the fate of 140,000 people was unsolved, in absolute danger. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In this debate, too, the government should clarify itself and clarify its future intentions. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-28-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. László Kucsák is coming from the Fidesz Group for a two-minute speech.
u2017-11-28-37	Mr President, thank you for the floor. After the cheerleading round, it seems that we have managed to get back to the usual routine that we cannot appreciate very much on our part. But if that is the case, I would like to point out to Mr Zsolt Legény that the use of words, or the great lie, or the expression of achievement from Mr Józsa reminds us of the period of socialist textbooks. You may be nostalgic about these books, but these disks are over, I'd like to signal. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] Calm down, fellow Member. But I think getting rid of the fact that in the context of foreign exchange lending, the real crime was committed by the socialist-liberal governments, rather exhausting the category that Zsolt Légény defined. Dániel Z. Kárpát obviously, after an objective-looking speech by the lead speaker from Jobbik, also clinged to this moment or this motif; do so, of course, it is the right of his heart. But what I can tell you most of your points are that they are not, as you said. Moreover, these debates have been held several times in Parliament. Unfortunately, the debates reminded me more of the parallel monologues in Chekov than of the substantive debates. To find and agree on this, I think, who can do that, that they will not become a valid debate, that we will find it difficult to deal with each other. The term "acquisition" and the revolutionary significance of this particular proposal were not used by the author, not by the lead speaker of Fidesz. We are just in a context of this measure. In the past, we have said what measures have been taken in this area. This is what our bill relates to; I would like to propose that we discuss this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-28-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech from the KDNP Group will be followed by Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go.
u2017-11-28-39	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, we have had several debates before Parliament on foreign exchange lending, on the issue of foreign exchange lending, and we, for our part, have repeatedly explained the solutions we see. And we have also fought for these solutions to rise to the law, which has largely fulfilled their expectations. Of course, there are other tasks in this regard ahead of us. These, we hope, will be able to achieve it in the next cycle. However, I would like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that, at the moment, the subject of our agenda is not a question of foreign exchange lending. Our agenda is XCIII of 1990 on levies. Act and Act LXXVII of 2017 amending certain tax laws and other related laws T/18539, amending Act T/18539 Bill No. 1. I would ask my fellow Members to further express their views in line with the item on the agenda, which, if I understand correctly, was supported by all the factions - at least who announced it here in the debate; the LMP faction has not yet spoken to it at the moment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-28-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now we're going to have proper speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy of the MSZP Group.
u2017-11-28-41	Mr President, Dear House, When I pressed the button, I thought, because of two thoughts from my good-looking fellow Member, that I would comment, but since then much has been said. I understand that the Fidesz Members are disturbed by the facts, and that is still the fact that my fellow Member Zsolt Legány spoke about in connection with the foreign exchange loan. I don't know what textbooks Mr. Kucsák was talking about, but then Fidesz read these textbooks very precisely, which he mentioned in connection with socialism, because the better and stronger hate campaign that you have been running over the years, I don't think it's possible to copy from textbooks either. And it's also very clear that you always have an alternative understanding of the past. What is critical or negative of your activities is dealt with as if it did not exist, while against others, even untrueness, if any, is presented as truth. Basically, my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, said a thought that he did not believe in the thinking of Hungarian families that it was necessary to acquire property, that it was a non-existent phenomenon. I'd argue with that. I think this is an existing phenomenon in Hungary. The problem is, and to agree with you on another matter, this is because there is no other option for families. You know, the only thing we have to do is buy the kid an apartment, or together, and then we'll help him get his first apartment. If there were a normal rental system in Hungary, this would probably make these habits much easier or more appropriate in Hungarian society. Indeed, in Europe, in the United States, it is a perfectly normal thing to rent, not own, and it is also true that this could greatly help labour market mobility. If someone, say, buys an apartment in Szabolcs and can't sell it there, and it's hard to sell the apartment, then he wouldn't want to move to Sopron because he got a job offer there, he wouldn't be able to do it, because his apartment in the tower wand is worth much less than an apartment in Sopron or even around it. In English, we should definitely move forward in this. As I would also agree, if it came to that, if we were discussing something about foreign exchange creditors, then it is indeed a legitimate suggestion, we ourselves have done several times that it is really a question of why it wasn't forinted at the rate of...
u2017-11-28-42	Congressman! I've been letting you talk for three minutes, but in three minutes, you haven't come to the tax bill. Congressman, you're talking about something else. I'm asking you to move on to the bill.
u2017-11-28-43	Everyone else was talking about it, so let's start with the President's accountant on those who are talking about socialist textbooks.
u2017-11-28-44	Congressman, please do not try to lecture me, and in particular do not tell me how to lead this meeting, because you only have the opportunity to do so in the form of a point of order. But you can't do that. Please continue with the tax law.
u2017-11-28-45	That's what I've been doing; Mr. President probably didn't pay attention to what I was talking about. [[Noise, interruptions.]] In Hungarian, I would continue to say that this is a very important question in relation to foreign exchange lending, that we should have changed or converted them at the rate on which they were recorded, as several Members said in the debate. Mr President probably did not notice this in the previous comments. All the Fidesz people do is help the debate, but they lie all over the place. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Józsa and Dr. Zsolt Legény applaud.]]
u2017-11-28-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát is next to speak again from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-28-47	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to stress that Jobbik is in favour of extending the tax concessions. So, by staying on the subject, there was a clear market demand at the time of the introduction of the CSOK, so a long time ago, the government is now responding to this. I support that. However, foreign currency lending has indeed been mentioned here, not by opposition representatives, but by the representative of the governing party at the national front. They would not be surprised if the opposition representative, the representative of Jobbik, who is a virgin on this issue, struck the high ball, who does not have to assume any responsibility as part of the MSZP-Fidesz Grand Coalition. [[11.10]] I would like to address this debate to my fellow Member, Mr Fidesz. Okay. But you said you didn't. So what I'm saying is not so. I'm asking you to stand up, deny it, tell me. I'm going to ask you specific questions, and then we're going to talk about charges by morning, although there seems to be much more agreement there. I'm not gonna have it taken away, if you have a good idea, I'm gonna back that up with my vote, but there are concrete questions. What is the reason why one person could repay his so-called loan at HUF 180, the other at HUF 256? What ethical, legal, economic arguments lie behind this? I think that's unacceptable. My second question - and it will only be three - will not be long - is how, this year, after your alleged successful settlement, your $5 million loan resulted in a claim of 33 million, with two enforcement gangs trying to collect the same claim on the affected family, who was evicted at the end. And my third question is absolutely and absolutely clear: what is the reason for it, because the Curia's legal unit decision is not to exchange the so-called loans of the people concerned at the market rate instead of the exchange rate at the time of admission? I am very pleased that other opposition parties have finally come to the conclusion, after many years, that the solution is, yes, to forint at the rate of admission. In fact, the political - quote - market is now the Fidesz and KDNP alone in the cart camp, which insists that forinting at the market rate is a fair thing. I see this question very simply. If someone took up their so-called loan at 155 HUF, it would not be fair to HUF 256 forints. So if we can answer these very clear specific questions or at least start talking about them, we can have a productive debate. But certainly not from simple rebuttals, stamps, and stigmatization. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-28-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech from the MSZP Group will be followed by Mr Nándor Gúr. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-28-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although I am not sitting next to you in the notary seat right now, but I can help your work from here, so my first sentence is that it was my fellow Member, Balla, who raised these questions, which you expressed with criticism against Attila Mesterházy. I note this because I think it is important to make it clear from the record where this debate began. By the way, my personal view of the bill is that there are things in it, such as the question of extending from one to three years, which are good and necessary. It is simply necessary for the possibility of enforceability to be created. It is therefore clearly possible to support and, in my view, to support this. I am convinced that the Hungarian Socialist Party will do the same. In addition, I do not wish to avoid the issue that has been raised and which my fellow Member, Mr Zsolt Legény, noted after my fellow Member Balla said. I am thinking of 2001, when the Hungarian Gazette needs to be reversed, it is important to see who signed in the Hungarian Gazette with the countersignation of what is related to foreign exchange lending. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew: Exactly!]] As Prime Minister Orbán, Minister Matolcsy and President of the Central Bank of Jára; these names can be found in these Hungarian Gazettes. I'd like to point out that what's going on in this conversation is absolutely correct. You talk about family-friendly measures, and family-friendly measures come back with the Hungarian National Bank winning at the expense of people. I'm telling you, he's profiting at the expense of people. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] He's not acting for his benefit, he's profiting at the expense of the people. This measure amounted to approximately HUF 300 billion in volume in recent years. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-11-28-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, A two-minute speech will be held by MEP László Vigh, Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-28-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to the words of Dániel Z. Carpathian, who indicated that the Fidesz government had done nothing more. I'd like to tell you that I also took on a foreign exchange loan. When I signed the contract with the bank, it was a relationship between an individual and the bank. The Fidesz government helped to come out of this relationship between the private sector and the bank at the time, say, in 2005, in 06, in 07 or in 08, with the help of exchange barriers, end-payments and many things. By the way, I'm sorry for all the Feds who are involved, but I think we need to take this from the banks' side, the banks did what they did, not the Fidesz government. The Fidesz government wants to help. This debate, when it started, has been going on for a long time. We think that if we look at the entire range of foreign exchange legitimists, who took out the loan, that ominous would fall to eight years when socialist governments ruled the field in Hungary. So it's in that period. The Fidesz government inherited this problem, and I think we've tried our best. By the way, you're right, it's not over, there's still a lot of people to help, and I think we're gonna help you in the next period. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-28-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a two-minute speech.
u2017-11-28-53	Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the fact that there is finally a pro-government Member who will agree to this so-called debate if there is a debate about it and not just a give-and-take. My fellow Member mentioned that he believed that relations between private individuals and banks had developed on a foreign exchange-credited front. However, I must note that there have been a lot of players in this system. Non-qualified credit intermediaries; some notaries did not necessarily examine whether the documents concerned were backed by genuine legal processes or market processes; not to mention the amazing omissions of the public oversight system. So if you're talking about accountability, you have to imagine it in a system. But we agree on something you just said: pay the commercial banks involved. It points to precisely my question, which is still in the air, that if it is the case that the injured party should pay on the basis of the polluter-pays principle, then why have the commercial banks concerned not repaid the total amount unduly abstracted. So by forinting at the exchange rate at the time of admission, people could have taken back all the money of those involved from the banks. However, this did not happen, with the exchange rate on the market, much more than half of the amount involved, which was unduly taken, you left it legally with the banks and did not return it to the owners. That's my real problem. I am not debating what they were trying to do, because there were tremendously flawed steps, there were steps that seemed to be forward, and there were well-meaning steps that went wrong, and there were a lot of sins. I consider it a clear question to be answered as to why more than half of the amount concerned has not been returned to the owners, as it can be justified what legal, ethical or any argument can be made to prevent banks otherwise producing record profits from being accounted for in proportion to their crimes and fully. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-28-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Further contributions from representatives will follow. The two-minute speeches will take place in the next round. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP Group.
u2017-11-28-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Kucsak told us to stick to the bill. I'm gonna do it. As our lead speaker mentioned, we will support this presentation, because otherwise we find it good, because we believe that it will help Hungarian families. Since this proposal would amend the tax law by relaxing the preferential rules on replacement housing, we believe that this is a good measure and, as I have said, we will support it. The proposal would extend the one-year deadline after the sale of the apartment to three years in view of the fact that many families are unable to find suitable real estate in one year or, in the case of newly built apartments, because of the delays in the construction process, they cannot always take over within a year, so they would fall out of the discount. So this is a good proposal to support, and we would not want to use the old opposition method here that we always face everything. We think it's a good presentation, and we need it. But allow me, Congressman Kucsák, and I will absolutely not lecture you, just to say and record to the record that whenever the rapporteur or the Fidesz lead speaker or any of the Fidesz speakers always read the slippers by the Habony works - and then I will not use the word ordained lie - we will always tell you what we disagree with. Because if you and Congressman Balla were not talking about the fact that the credit for foreign currency was brought into the hands of Hungarian families, then this debate would probably not have taken place now, because we would probably only have talked about its contents. [[11.20]] But since you've started with such a political horseback out of the blue, we'll always say that, obviously, if we disagree with something, and we think something is very, very wrong. Because I understand that when the Habony works tell you something, you have to read it, it's okay, I wouldn't have a debate with that, but I will always have a debate about its content, even if it doesn't please my fellow Member of Peace in Csaba, I believe that, but we are here to argue. [[Attila Mesterházy: That's right!]] Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-28-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2017-11-28-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll pick it up from where the president left off when he got on the chair. You were talking about family-friendly measures. I said in substance whether a measure could be considered family-friendly, which is practically profiteering at the expense of the people; profiting at the expense of the people, because money of the magnitude of some HUF 300 billion did not land with the people, it was not for them to trigger their burdens, but the Hungarian National Bank practically took over when the Swiss franc and the euro were converted. Obviously, the exchange rate at the time of admission was not converted or forinted. I would like to point out that the fate of this HUF 300 billion was otherwise used to recapitalisation foundations. Here, we could now move on to the story of the public money losing its public money character, from Lajos Kósa to many others. I would like to make it clear to you that, instead of providing tangible help to those people who suffered in 2001 the content of their foreign exchange lending measures, I say, Orbán, Matolcsy, Járai, you know the names, don't you - you have taken them in a direction where, how, how, and how they can be made invisible, on the one hand, if possible, and on the other hand, they are in the interest of people who are absolutely not in need of them, and who could have made a moderate request for assistance. You weren't interested in this, and you were only interested in helping those who were dear to you in an unfair way. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-11-28-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Once again, does the Member have an address on the normal time frame? [[On the sign of Nándor Gúr:]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr László Teleki, MSZP Group.
u2017-11-28-59	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I asked because, when we talk about the law, we have clearly said that we support the law because we think it is good and important, but when it comes to foreign exchange creditors, it is not possible for opposition representatives to stand up and not to say that there are 140,000 families waiting to be a solution to their housing issue. This must be taken for granted, and do not try to put Attila Mesterházy or anyone in a position where he was not speaking to the law. He is speaking to you when you talk about us committing the historical crime of putting foreign exchange credentials in a position that led them to the spiral that led to debt. You have done nothing in the last eight years; you can now not only be eight years old, but also us, because you have been ruling for almost eight years. What have they done to bring these families into decent conditions, whether with bank support, from which interest was taken, or from government sources, to help these families? I will say nothing, because that 140,000 families are still on the ground in Hungary, and there is nothing to do. They're going everywhere, and we politicians don't want to hear their message, their word, to help us, Members, help people who are in such unworthy circumstances. Why don't they just sit down and negotiate with the banks, and why don't they just do it if they don't want to do it with the banks, because they're afraid of the banks, so they can help families with their own resources who are under unfair circumstances? I think it is certainly a responsibility for a government that says that it considers its family-friendly system important. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party calls for and initiates the support of families who have been under unfair conditions in recent years. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-28-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman László Vigh, Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-28-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me respond to Daniel Z. Kárpat's earlier speech. He said that we didn't help the banks get corrupted. Well, I'll tell you that in 2010, you'll remember that the banks paid around 15 billion into the budget, and their profits were 500 billion. Mr.Orbán stood out there and said that the banks would put some 200 billion into the common budget, 200 billion. Thus, during the socialist governments, banks made 15 billion public burdens out of their profits from the budget of 18 000 billion. And when we say that we helped someone, at the exchange rate barrier and at the end of payment, I think we should take these funds into account that in 2010, the Fidesz government's first measures were to say that we tax the banks, that we were planning and paying 200 billion contributions to the banks. So I think that the Fidesz government has influenced banks to bear a common burden. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-28-63	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for your support in what I have said, because if you refer to 2010 and you have paid 200 billion forints to the banks, please think about why Fidesz-KDNP has reduced the bank tax now, in the last year or two, and why you have abolished the credit institution's allowance in its entirety, while the banks concerned are making record profits on the Hungarian population. If we look at the fees, costs and burdens of an average invoice package in England and look at a Hungarian, we see that in many cases the fee for the Hungarian account package is significantly higher than for the much better financial situation of English citizens. And we can also see... I don't understand what you're yelling at, but push a button, and we'll respond to that. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Get to the point.]] Even now, it cannot be understood, and I hope that my time will be counted on by my fellow Member's yellings. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It's a debate, so you press the button, you can stand up, you can tell me [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Speak freely about the subject.]] Then I'll wait my turn, I'll press the button, and I'll be able to tell you. Calm down, please, because your job here is to get into the debate fair and square instead of yelling; you didn't dare get involved in the foreign exchange policy debate, you just yell at me and get pissed off. Responding to and continuing to my own thoughts, I have to say that as long as banking is cheaper in England, and there is actually a zero bank account, which has a zero fee, there is no such construction in Hungary at the moment. The bank tax will be reduced, the credit institution's allowance will be released, the banks will make record profits, and while you boast that they were obliged to make a HUF 200 billion deposit in a totally legitimate manner in the spirit of public burden-sharing in 2010, I must say that the same institutions are making a thousand billion-dollar profit, and they could hold an even greater amount unduly, which is the money of foreign exchange lenders. And then I didn't even mention the undue surplus at the Hungarian National Bank, which a Jobbik government will pay as a dividend in its entirety into the Hungarian budget. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and assists those who have been harmed by foreign currency loans. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-28-64	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group, asked for the floor in a normal time frame. You have the floor.
u2017-11-28-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State Tallai, if I hear you correctly, you're gonna tell me to stop, okay? ! [[Dr. Robert Répássy: You didn't hear me right! The president's ringing the bell.]] The fact is, Mr Secretary, that I just want to say that we could all talk for a long, very long time, personally, about these types of issues that my fellow Member Balla has mentioned; very long and very diversely from what we have talked about, that profiting at the expense of people and not helping families through the MNB. We believe that the process system of nearly HUF 300 billion, coupled with the recapitalisation of foundations, where public money lost its public money character, where they became opaque... - yes, we could talk about them for a very long time. [[11.30]] But that is not my aim, and that is not why I asked Mr President for a normal word, but simply because I think that the draft law that we are discussing is certainly eligible and I think it should be supported, which is about pushing and extending from one year to three years, because during this time period, it will be virtually easier to solve the tasks that have been combined with the loss of resources by individual families over the past period. Of course, I have to add: there is another problem to be faced in this regard, and this is nothing more than the problems arising from the slippages of the transfer of new dwellings, and, where appropriate, it can be seen by businesses in many cases that they cannot fulfil their duties and obligations, even in this period of time; precisely because of the changes in the labour market that have taken place in the past years, and the fact that many people who are engaged in work in the construction industry have left the country. Those who are progressive, who have knowledge in their hands and in their head, look elsewhere for their welfare, are emptying out the labour market supply area of the construction sector, so that we will also have to face the anomaly and face it now that the slipping time interval for the transfer of new apartments can even reach that this three-year extension period will not be able to resolve the case. Mr Secretary, in dealing with this issue, I would like to draw your attention to it, and I would like to urge you to continue to try and confirm with every measure that such situations cannot arise. So I wanted to give some thought to this bill, to the flaws in this bill, or to its shortcomings, or to the possibilities of re-enlarging it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-28-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to comment. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask our fellow Member, Mr László Kucsák, as rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-28-67	Thank you very much for the floor. All I would like to say here, with the end of the debate, is that it was important information that the present MSZPs and Jobs expressed their support for the concrete bill. In confidence in this, I thank you for your cooperation, and I am pleased to express the fact that in the debate you were able to discuss the proposal itself. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2013 CCXLI on the National Remembrance Committee. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The presentation tabled by Mr Gulyás Gergely and Mr Répássy, Fidesz Group, Mr T/18531. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2017-11-28-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The National Remembrance Committee was established by the fourth amendment of the Fundamental Law. In Article U of our Fundamental Law (3), it states: "The National Remembrance Committee operates in order to preserve the memory of the communist dictatorship by the state. The National Remembrance Committee reveals the power function of the Communist dictatorship, the role of persons and organisations possessing communist power, and the results of its activities in a comprehensive report, as well as in further documents. It is no coincidence that the fourth amendment of the Fundamental Law is the Hungarian and international left, it is no exaggeration to claim that it was received with hatred, since Article U of the Fourth Amendment of the Fundamental Law determines the responsibility for communist crimes. Dear House, The bill before us is the 2013 CCXLI on the National Remembrance Committee. It intends to amend the law. The Act on the Committee of National Remembrance was adopted by Parliament more than three years ago, and it is therefore appropriate to review the need for amendment and to propose amendments to the law with my fellow Member, Mr Gergely Gulyás. In addition to maintaining the corporate nature of the National Remembrance Committee, the President, so to speak, is also concerned with increasing his administrative powers and also with the responsibility of the President. It is proposed that the National Remembrance Committee continue to function as a body, but in some cases the President receives additional rights for the organisation of work and efficiency. The Committee's rules of procedure, agenda, the composition of the working groups led by the Committee and the annual research work plan of the Committee and the Office are now proposed by the Panel, so the President's proposals and the decisions of the Chair may be rejected by the Board. However, it is necessary that someone designates the scheduled research work plan and scheduled tasks in order to enable the National Remembrance Committee to fulfil its constitutional function under the Fundamental Law. For this reason, the President could, in the future, define the composition of the working groups, the tasks to be carried out by them and the annual research work plan and the rules of procedure of the Committee in order to ensure their effective functioning. Furthermore, since the Office of the National Remembrance Committee is also in operation, the President would also determine the instrument of incorporation and the organisational and operational rules of the Office, as the President will determine the pace of the official work or the timing of the anticipated research work. Of course, he also asks the members for their opinion, but one must ultimately make a decision. The President will be able to set up research working groups in the future to ensure effective functioning. The Committee may use external experts, but the President's sole responsibility for the financial commitment to external experts has not been clear so far, as the members of the Committee may also use these experts, but the chairman shall monitor the budget of the Committee and its Office in general. The President shall be responsible for the budget of the National Remembrance Committee. It is therefore necessary for the President to have a greater say in the use of experts, in particular if the financial commitment entails, essentially a contribution to ordering such work in the future. In addition, it is necessary to give the President the right of instruction in financial terms. The further provisions of the bill are to clarify the rules for the resignation of the vice-president, because so far the norm has not been completely clear here. The structure of the annual reports on scientific research work is not sufficiently defined by the current legislation, it does not define it properly, it is too bound by the form of the annual reports, so it would change the form here, the committee would abolish the form, at least at least the form to date, for the committee to be abolished by the new bill. This means that the committee can publish its reports in a much more readable, much more popular way, so it does not necessarily have to adapt to some rigid, strict legal constraints. [[11.40]] The Committee may conclude contracts with certain persons in relation to its core activity, but the Act on the Committee of National Remembrance makes one condition for whom only the Committee of National Remembrance or its Office may apply. Those who were not in any way involved in the operation of pro-state organisations. There's a problem with that. The first problem is that this employment ban also covers cleaning activities in the agency's core activity, such as cleaning, so it doesn't make much sense to employ staff, so to speak, physical staff who may have been previously associated with the Office's activities or with organisations that are now involved in the activities investigated by the National Remembrance Committee. Although this does not have much practical significance, it is merely that a statement must be made even with a cleaner. However, so to speak, the meaning of this regulation is questionable. In the future, therefore, this statement would be excluded or, more precisely, would not be necessary, especially for those born after 14 February 1972, who, let us say, have not yet reached the age of 18 at the time of the change of regime, since the law now requires them to make a declaration and would constitute an employment barrier if they had not made a declaration. There is no need for persons who were born after 14 February 1972 - I stress, were born after - so those who were not 18 years old at the time of the change of regime should be obliged by law to make a declaration of conflict of interest. In the press, I saw the excitement of the regulatory proposal that the former member, official or employee of the National Remembrance Committee, of organisations of interest in research, was completely excluded from the activities of the National Remembrance Committee. On the basis of the daily practice of the National Remembrance Committee, we must say that they must also obtain information from persons who were once members, officials or employees of the organisations they examined. Involvement of still living witnesses in this exploratory work is, to say the least, essential. Therefore, it is necessary to consider here, too, that if, therefore, a contract of assignment is to be established, such persons should not be excluded from cooperation with the National Remembrance Committee; they cannot be. Of course, no historical research or historical research can lack information that can be provided by persons who have gained direct experience, say, in the operation of the party of state. And here we must not only think that they were involved in some kind of state security organization, but rather think that former party members - let us not forget, there were more than 800 thousand of them - may need information about the operation of the party and the party state, as well as information about the operation of the National Remembrance Committee. I would like to stress that it is not a moral issue, but a practical question as to whether such persons as trustees can participate in the source work of the National Remembrance Committee. I stress that they will not draw up the reports, they will not evaluate the information, but they are members of historians, professional historians and, of course, of the National Remembrance Committee, who, on the other hand, have strict conflict of interest rules for participation in former pro-state organisations. Therefore, data which these constitutionally involved persons would not have verified should not be made available to the public. So it is not, by any chance, that former party members and party secretaries will write these reports, but it is just that they also need information from them from the National Remembrance Committee. Of course, if the Honourable Parliament believes that these persons should continue to be excluded from this activity, it makes the work of the committee difficult, but it does not make it impossible. So, obviously, information can also be obtained that is indirect information about this pro-state operation, but I think that direct information is necessary in order for the National Remembrance Committee to be able to do its work effectively. Once again, I say that this is not a fundamental issue of this law. The authors consider that if, according to the Parliament, we should continue to apply some kind of austerity here, we are open to this, but I ask you to consider this proposal in accordance with common sense. Repenting penitents can occur everywhere, telling us how these organizations worked, and these remorseful penitents - or I don't know what to call them, simply living witnesses - should not be excluded from exploring the past of the communist dictatorship. With all due respect, I ask the House to accept the bill that we have tabled. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-28-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present his position during the debate. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Who is the representative of the government?]] Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-28-71	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The National Remembrance Committee is hereby authorised by the National Assembly under Article O (3) of the Fundamental Law, CCXLI of 2013 on the Committee of National Remembrance. It was set up by law. The committee's statutory task is to preserve the state's memory of the communist dictatorship, to explore the power of the communist dictatorship, and to cooperate with the prosecution in detecting the perpetrators of crimes committed during the communist dictatorship. The members of the National Remembrance Committee, as well as the historians and lawyers who assist in their work, have two objectives. They are committed to contributing with their work to honoring and preserving the memory of the victims of the communist dictatorship, to exploring the losses suffered by Hungarian society, and to presenting the individual and collective traumas of the era that have spread over generations. The purpose of the bill before us is to facilitate the work of the National Remembrance Committee as a board body, to clarify and rationalise certain procedural elements of the corporate operation, and to make its operation more efficient. The proposal also includes the deletion of the provisions which are difficult to apply in practice and the adaptation of certain provisions to general practice in the light of experience gained during the operation of the Committee and its Office for more than three years. In order to facilitate the scientific work of the Committee, to facilitate the cooperation of the Chair and the Committee, and to ensure the efficient functioning of the Committee as a body and to address work organisation issues, operational rules should be approximated and approximated to the regulation of other institutions, which are also active in a corporate form, in an efficient manner. The bill before Parliament promotes these objectives. Thank you very much for your attention. Please support the bill. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-28-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. [[11.50]]
u2017-11-28-73	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I have read the explanation, and I have just listened to Mr Répássy as to why these changes are being made, and frankly, I do not understand it exactly. If I assume why you set up the National Remembrance Committee, then the proposals you are now making are completely irrational in this story. So to argue that it is necessary to remove certain restrictions because it gives 1. the cleaning lady does not have to fill out a form; gives 2. those who are still living witnesses can tell us how a sinful system worked - I do not understand exactly: so they must be paid? Does a penitent penitent have to pay to tell the information? Then it is not a pentator, but, where appropriate, purchased information - one. Two, tell me what the credibility of such information is. ? So if I'm very penitent, then I probably want to tell the story by saying that everyone but me was guilty and responsible, except for me. So if someone is so remorseful, I would start to wonder why they suddenly became so remorseful, twenty-something years after the change of regime, because if it was in 1990, I would understand, either in 92 or during the Antall government. I would even understand if these people were repentant in the time of the first Orbán government. Now, if money is motivation, then what's the credibility of that information, please, for which you have to pay? That doesn't mean remorse. I think if I start by saying again why you created this, then this move is irrational, unless you want to hire someone there who's kind to you for something, and you say what you have to say, but you were a member of MSZMP, or I don't know what you were a member of, which excludes the person from this circle. So I would think that this argument we've heard here, or it's about you not thinking very carefully about what rules the Fundamental Law has to lay down for an institution, and you'll find out in a few years. Either you didn't think about it then, or you didn't think about what it was you have to do or what rules you have to put in such a law. I think it is rather that there is some underlying intention behind this measure, because I do not think that an amendment would be tabled here so that the cleaning lady does not have to fill out a form or that the born before 72 do not have to make a declaration of conflict of interest. If, then, the National Remembrance Committee, then I thought it was the job of such a committee to really explore from the past the sins or personal tragedies that the system forced families, people, if any, to introduce to younger generations, because otherwise, what the hell is the point of all this? The fact that, where appropriate, one or two researchers live well, since the leaders receive secretary-general's salaries, so they provide quite a lot of resources for this, almost 50 people work at this office or institution; meanwhile, if we look at the report of this National Remembrance Committee, we can see that nothing could be done very well, because, for example, on the YouTube surface, on Facebook or on their website, there are few visitors. In English: as if the output, the result that comes out of this committee, would not be so important. Rather, it seems to me that it serves such public relations purposes, serves communication purposes in your case, so that they can say that we have such a thing, which will very much reveal the past, but whether something will come out of it, and whether young people can really experience it, understand it, or gain knowledge of how a repressive regime worked, I see there are serious shortcomings in this already. Just as there is a serious flaw in that if you took this past-exploratory work seriously, it would start with the fact that you should be able to compile the agent lists and immediately publish the agent lists. Now, compared to this, András Schiffer is no longer here, within the walls of Parliament, but if I recall correctly, he has already tabled this amendment on the publicity of the agent files ten times. This was voted off by Fidesz each time. We always voted for it, Fidesz always voted against this proposal. If you take seriously the fact that the sins of the past have to be discovered, it is likely that the 800 thousand MSZMP party members were not the main criminal or the number one culprits who joined the state party for many reasons, but those who, where appropriate, carried out actions in the III/III department that were truly moral and many other good morals and were able to operate a repressive system. Well, then, the fact-finding and national memory begin by remembering these people and making public who they were, because then they can also avoid looking at who they were politically intent on being made public, who they did not disclose, who they did. I would add that this demand is slowly losing its meaning, too, because as time goes by, there is less information, fewer witnesses, less opportunities to explore it, and perhaps we are getting further and further away from such a great social need, but I would say that fair, fair confrontation can be an important tool to come clean with the past. That's why I think, and that's why I was surprised when I read in one of the newspapers that one of the researchers from the National Remembrance Committee actually declared that it was impossible to compile agent lists, because this is an impossible task. So before they started, they told me what was impossible. I don't understand exactly what kind of witnesses will then tell you for money in connection with the amendment of the law. So, if it really makes any more sense, to say that we do not get a justification for this amendment, or do you really think that this is what stands or falls down, whether the director can now sign what kind of financial performance the Committee of National Remembrance is to do effectively instead of using money to provide real content, and really get to those young people the knowledge, knowledge that is really necessary in relation to past exploration, and certainly to help build up a generation growing up in democracy, especially if a lot of people, thank God, no longer lived, no longer know, don't know, didn't experience how that system worked in the roughest period of the past... so it would really require a correct interpretation of history and information in Hungary. I don't think the National Remembrance Committee is. I see from the amendment that the further aim is not to continue with a real work of content, but rather a smear on the part of Fidesz. I'm sure your own voters expect you to do something like this, something you can blame on us dealing with this issue. In comparison, this issue is not dealt with in substance. So I would rather suggest instead of this clowning technical amendment, that we focus on the essence of the problem, not on what the cleaning lady needs to do, what she doesn't do at the National Remembrance Committee, or what kind of informants they want to hire again for money for this organization. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-28-74	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-11-28-75	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill, which lies before us, is to facilitate the work of the National Remembrance Committee as a body of bodies, to clarify, rationalise and make the operation more efficient. It is also recommended that the Committee and its bureau, in the course of more than three years' operation, have experience in removing provisions which are difficult to apply in practice and adapting certain provisions to general practice. Ladies and Gentlemen, The purpose of the bill is also to facilitate the scientific work of the Committee, to facilitate the functioning of the Chair and the Committee, and to approximate the rules of operation of the Committee on National Remembrance to the regulation of institutions operating effectively at other levels in the form of a body. Here I would mention the Constitutional Court or the municipal representative bodies. [[12.00]] So, honourable Parliament, it is not what my former lead speaker, Attila Mesterházy, said that we might be able to exempt cleaning ladies from various statements, or how Fidesz-KDNP would pay people who would now make statements for money about what happened in the decades of that ominous dictatorship, but what I have just said. The President's power to propose, first and foremost, the rules of procedure, the agenda of the Committee, the composition of the working groups led by the Committee, the annual research work plan of the Committee and the Office did not, in principle, facilitate the effective functioning of the panel's work, as the Committee could therefore reject the proposals without prior consultation. Effective functioning shall be served by the procedure when the members of the committee discuss with the chairman the content of the above-mentioned proposals, and the chairman shall determine the composition of the working groups, the tasks to be carried out by them, the annual research work plan, the rules of procedure of the committee, the instrument of incorporation of the Office and its organisational and operational rules, as required by the pace of the official work or the pace of the anticipated research work. The President may propose research thematic groups for the sake of efficient functioning. Ladies and Gentlemen, The committee stated that the NEB Act was adopted in accordance with Article 30 (2) of the NEB Act. § 1 may use an external expert, have the power of financial commitment, and the text of the legislation does not exclude that the body may adopt decisions involving other financial commitments. In view of the importance of keeping the Office's financial framework in mind, and it is absolutely necessary to include the use of experts in the annual work plan and the tasks to be carried out by the working groups listed above, the proposals discussed by the Committee require the President's consent. The contribution is also a guarantee that financial decisions will be brought into line with the decisions taken by the President and that there will be additional responsibility on the part of the President, as one person will be able to comply with the financial opportunities. The naming of the right of instruction is in line with the general practice. Ladies and Gentlemen, The procedure for the resignation of the vice-president should also be clarified in the law, because the definition of written submission is not linked to an underlying legislation that provides for the definition of a written form. The current norm thus makes the date of the resignation of the vice-president uncertain. Think about it: if the vice-president submits his resignation by e-mail and later gives it to you on a paper basis, then what deadline, with what effect the resignation will take place. Ladies and Gentlemen, The experience of the Committee's three-year activity shows that the structure of the annual reports on the scientific research work should not be built in the manner set out in the current legislative text, nor is it appropriate to define itself in advance in a manner bound by the structure. However, compliance with the legislative obligation to compile and prepare annual reports at an appropriate pace will be greatly facilitated if the reporting obligation of the members of the Commission at the head of each working group is explicitly defined in the standard text. There is a particular problem with the general wording of the declaration for persons born after 14 February 1972, since, in their view, it is conceptually impossible that they have been members, employees or any official of the listed organisations, but must nevertheless make a statement. In addition, by requiring the obligation to make a declaration, we exclude the assignment of living witnesses who may have information relevant to the research precisely because of the fact that Article 29 does not apply. § 2 were former members, former officials or employees of the organisations listed in paragraph 2. Ladies and Gentlemen, The parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-28-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps I would like to begin by saying that the amendment of such an agenda and such a case should always mean a kind of elevation, and it should mean a kind of holiday here in the Hungarian Parliament, especially in 2017, let's say. This would mean that a kind of symbolic celebration of the change of regime would take place. But unfortunately we have to disappoint ourselves, it's not a holiday, it's a shame and a shame. It's all that -- and it's not in violation, and I don't want to classify the people who work there, but the legal framework that you created for the National Remembrance Committee, that's shame and shame. This was created to guarantee that no one would ever find out. [[György Szilágyi: That's right!]] That's what the National Remembrance Committee is all about. And you don't lie to Poland, you don't lie to the Hungarian public about what we do in the spirit of anti-communism, and what anti-communism Fidesz-KDNP is doing at the level of legislation! No! Once you take your time and go to Poland to the Polish National Memorial Institute, which you have referred so much to, and look at the legislation of that. But now you know what? They don't even have to go out there. I went out. I went out on several occasions and even visited the Polish National Memorial Institute physically. They told me, and I watched with my own eyes how the lustration works there and how the Polish communist past was closed. Now, the change of regime. Lustration. Anti-communism. What you do is the opposite of what you do. Look at it, and you don't have to go outside, I translated it, I translated the bill on the Polish National Memorial Institute, and in March 2017 you read it, I submitted it. My fellow Member, Mr Répássy, was sitting on the Justice Committee when you voted against this without bone, although you could not raise one argument against it. Not a single one, if you've even read it. You voted him down, and you probably didn't read it. But there's nothing wrong with that, except that, in connection with the '56 commemorative year, when dressed in billionaire sets, don't lie about anti-communism, and don't lie about yourself, that we're doing everything we can to account for the culprits, and we're doing everything we can to honor the victims. 'Cause they're the ones who get spit in the eye with every proposal for this kind of incarceration. Because how does the Polish National Memorial Institute work? And then compare it to the National Remembrance Committee you created. If someone goes in there with a written document, such as a journalist; a journalist goes in - where I went, for example, in Bydgoszcz - to the Vojvodina headquarters of the Polish National Memorial Institute, and says he takes a paper, a certificate from his editorial board, to write an article about X., Y., Z. In parentheses, in Poland, the personal rights of the unsubs are not of interest to the gun range dog. Anyone who has cooperated with the past regime, who has been actively involved in the benefit of the Third Reich or the Soviet Union in relation to Polish oppression, has the rights of personality as a matter of twenty rank. Not with us. Gergely Gulyás has told me how many times the unsubs have rights! Well, you can't just go public with that. You have to pay attention to European standards. Of course, you have to pay attention, just prioritize. So if someone goes into any of the Vojvodina headquarters of the Polish National Memorial Institute and says that about X, Y, Z, be it the journalist, be it an official, be it a politician, either at municipal level or at European Parliament level, or at parliamentary level, he will be told by the Institute's colleague: my lady, sir, row 12, shelf 3, X, Y, Z, and will receive the entire file in its original form. [[12.10]] Now, that's exploration, that's publicity. And the Polish Institute of National Remembrance - and now they are sitting again, no need to hold on - has its own authority, maintains its own prosecutorship, that the research they are doing will have a legal consequence. In Poland, there is no such thing as getting away with what has been done in the past system in a negative sense. And let's see how this works in Hungary! To this day, for example, László Lehel, head of the Hungarian Ecumenical Assistance Organization, cuts tapes with Viktor Orbán's wife every day, every week or every month - last time in Eger. We're talking about an III/III bastard. This Hungarian accountability, this is your anti-communism. Should we take a look at the State Secretary's list? That's where we'll find III/II. What are you talking about? ! And they have the nerve to stand up every year on October 23rd, November 4th, and say that we are the anti-communists, and to say what a fantastic job we are doing, and to say that we are involved. What's the count? Nobody and nothing! Just have the courage to say: it would be too much sacrifice in our ranks, too many people would be revealed, whether in our moonyard, economic or political, or in our membership, if we were to publish, for example, the full list of agents. And you voted him out a million times. And it doesn't hurt that you've been voted off, because I don't expect anything from you in this regard, because we've seen exactly what you've been doing on this issue since 1990. When, for example, they were granted authorisation in 1998, what did they do to ensure that either the list of agents or any degree of lisztration would be achieved? Nothing! When they received a two-thirds majority in 2010, what did they do to close the communist past once and for all? Nothing! They've created a prison camp. They created the National Remembrance Committee, which is guaranteed to make sure no one gets to know anything. And it hurts me, not what they do, but what they lie about themselves - when every year on October 23rd, November 4th, televisions, newspapers, radios and various large, impressive stages they talk about what patriots you are, talking about what anti-communists you are and talking about how much they respect the victims and their memories. No, ladies and gentlemen, you spit on the victims and protect the guilty! It's the truth, and it's something we should face once and for all. And don't keep referring to the Polish example, because it is always based on: we took the Polish sample as the basis of the Hungarian bill. Sure. Name. That's two words right there. Instead of the National Remembrance Institute, the National Remembrance Committee, but not Polish, but Hungarian. But did you ever look at the contents of it? Have you actually looked at how it works? Do you want to know why this is not an issue in Poland? 'Cause we've got the lustration! Because there's no way to capitalize on internal politics by whether there's a file on someone; if there's anything else to find out. Because there the change of regime took place when each parliamentary faction received that particular list. I don't know, I'm sure you'll remember what made the Wałęsa government resign and how. Each faction and independent representative in the Polish seymour received the full list of agents one night; the next morning he resigned with each member of the government. I didn't need a motion of mistrust. And since then, that is no question, and the Polish Institute of National Remembrance as its own authority to this day - to this day! - publish the results of each of his research projects immediately, and it is not necessary for journalists or educational institutions to enter either teachers or students. Because every year, every year, everything comes from everyone who has anything to do with the previous system, the dictatorship - as a maintainer, as a contributor. And with the momentum that you've done this job, your own prosecutor's office will take the necessary legal action, and we'll proceed with the procedure. There's no getting away like here! And after that, what quality and what moral basis do you have to face? What quality do they represent 27 years after the so - called change of regime, when they are doing everything they can to ensure that no one is found out? Have you turned to any of the National Remembrance Committee's publications? [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes! We do! Not you!]] It's all about people who are already... Congressman, feel free to press a button. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: I pushed!]] And tell me. Show me a man who's functioning today, who's got something down, and then there's legal consequences. Because that would be the job of such an institution, as it does in Poland. I believe you are upset, Congressman Répássy, because it is very difficult to argue with the truth, but the truth is that you are preserving the condition that Hungary inherited in 1990. You will do everything in your power to ensure that no one involved in communism in Hungary is harmed by anyone who is active and maintainer on the side of the repressive regime and dictatorship. It's the truth. And we should not have fun with such small changes, we should provide a legal framework that would guarantee lustration in Hungary. Isn't it weird that in all of Eastern Central Europe, the only countries of the former Warsaw Treaty didn't have any level of Lustration in Hungary? Not only did they not follow a Polish pattern; you did not even follow the Czech model; you did not follow the Romanian pattern, which is very far away or very far away from the Polish sample, but how far ahead! And then here we are at the end of 2017, with an impressive, elevated framework - what anti-communist legislation are you doing? Once in your life, either conscientiously or only imaginatively, put your hands on their hearts and say that we have done everything we can and I recommend that you look at the submission on the Parliament's website, in addition to my name, or among the texts already discussed, which is the literal Hungarian translation of the Polish National Memorial Institute, in accordance with the Hungarian Fundamental Law, after its integration into the Hungarian legal order. And if they do a little bit of the same legislation, or they put a similar bill in the bud, then we'll be the first to support it, we'll be the first to stand by you, and we'll be the first to provide up to four fifths. But for such meaningless proposals as this, and for which the National Remembrance Committee has succeeded, let them stop looking at it as an embodiment of regime change or anti-communism, which would be a confrontation with the past! It's not facing the past, it's closing the small and big gate facing the past, lowering the blinds. And so they can be state ministers, public figures, relief organisations, journalists in Hungary, and who knows, whether in economics or in political life, very high-level actors who were otherwise active in the pre-1990 period, and you will speak with them every year on 23 October or 4 November about the memory of the victims. [[12.20]] Isn't that a bit back? Isn't that outrageous? And really, in the memory of the victims, I want you to consider it in such a way that they don't lie. But if they cannot face it, at least allow others to face it and not hinder real anti-communist legislation. Because they can say anything, that's all, but it's not. It's shame and shame! Therefore, such a debate cannot be festive or raised, which should be about celebrating the change of regime, because they are doing exactly the opposite. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-28-78	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Ikotity, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2017-11-28-79	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, With the proposal before us alone, the LMP has nothing against it, and we could, of course, support it under laboratory conditions with minor amendments to assist the functioning of the Board. It's much worse that the majority of the government with the National Remembrance Committee has solved the agent issue for their part. However, until we can talk about real publicity and at least a narrow amount of Lustration, unfortunately, the legislator will continue to roll the sad debt of the past more than a quarter of a century. The National Remembrance Committee is nothing more than monopolising scientific research. The corps lacks automatism. Data necessary for the identification of all persons cooperating with State security that are not publicly available in the public interest, i.e. anyone who can be identified. The obligation to regularly process data in a separate report is lacking for persons exercising public authority in recent decades and for key actors in national policy. There is also no gradual publication of State Security documents on the Internet. It'll only be public what the committee wants. In other words, the overall public and past exploration depends on the role and professionalism of the NEB members elected by the majority of governments; as opposed to the numerous proposals voted down by the LMP, which, in addition to the creation of a genuine publicity, would require that in the most dominant positions of power, there could not be any state security service providers or party state politicians in the political direction of the repressive machinery. The fact that it is important for society to have a real public record is precisely that even after 27 years, we do not see clearly how the communist power-owner organizations that govern state security have rewoven the economic, political or media change. It is important to be active, and it is not only about agents, but also about political leaders of the repressive machinery, so that we can clearly see, for example, how many people were involved in the various fractions of the regime-changer parliament, how many of them had once entered from conviction to service, then changed their convictions, suddenly become national or liberal. We have the right to know that, and that is the right of all Hungarians to know. I go further: we also have the right to know how many people were in Hungary at the dawn of the regime change who served the communist state security and then robbed the country with the established relationship system. How many of the beneficiaries of privatisation were those who, by the way, served the communist state security? We have a right to know that. Until we can see exactly how long-running networks affect political decision-making and economic life to date, we are going to vote blindly. We do not know what kind of alliances of interest are those that will have a decisive number of votes in political decision-making when we help a party or a party alliance with our vote. If citizens have access to the past, it is not just about the names of agents, it is not just about moral satisfaction or information compensation, although the victims have the right to do so. If we can get to know these files, get to know the mechanisms, learn how the whole communist system worked, learn about the favors that agents and agents and officers have done to each other, and maybe a number of things will become clear from the tangled twenty years after 1990, to quote Prime Minister. We need to know not only names, but also practices and mechanisms. Whoever hides the files, who escapes the public interest, sends the message to Hungarian society that there is butter behind their ears, does not care that the Hungarian people learn about the mechanisms that have taken place in the past that have allowed this country to be robbed after 1990, and that it was possible to exercise power with a conviction changed in the new system. When you keep saying no to nudeness, you want to hide this communist state security past, so any rational amendment to the National Remembrance Committee is useless. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-11-28-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As independent Members do not take part in the debate, we will continue our work with two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2017-11-28-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've always wondered about the reason for this discussion and what it is in the interest of you to slip things away. What is the reason that the agents' lists will not be made public that the agents' files will not be disclosed. There are not many kinds of conclusions to be reached in this regard, just that those who have power today - because they have power and do not serve - are in the interest of keeping this out of the open. Well, they could have, because they had two-thirds. They were able to eliminate the Constitution, they were able to establish the Fundamental Law, but in this respect they could not create the publicity of agent lists, agent files. Once again, the question arises, what is the cause of this and whose interests it is in your interest. The other thing is related to Robert Répássy's thoughts. I would like to point out to my fellow Member, Imre Vejkey, that it was not Attila Mesterházy, but Róbert Répássy, who introduced the idea that this should be resolved with regard to the declaration. That's why there's a reaction. But the point of the reaction is the sentence that my fellow Member Répássy said that even a cleaner should make a statement - I say, even a cleaner - that is a pejorative sentence for me, unacceptable. More respect should be given to anyone, my fellow Member, Mr Répássy, and the cleaning staff. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: You don't understand any of it!]] The record needs to be looked at, literally, what I said, the way you talked about it. I find that shameful. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-28-82	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-28-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We're talking agent lists here. Let us not forget that when the MSZP demands that the list of agents be made public, the question arises as to why this question was not so important to them when they were on the government. Attila Mesterházy said that social demands on disclosure of agent lists are decreasing. I feel, unfortunately, that the congressman is right about this. But that is precisely why Parliament and the various committees have a very big responsibility to ensure that this social need is not reduced, because I believe that we owe justice and sacrifice in this country to reveal the past. But we're gonna uncover it, and we're not trying to get rid of it, we're not trying to get these things out of the open. I think we should have taken these steps a long time ago, that justice should have been done in this country. [[12.30]] We should have given the victims that respect a long time ago. And when we talk about victims, do not forget, fellow Members, that it is not only about the dead, it is not only about the imprisoned, but it is still still about almost all families in Hungary. All families can be victims of communism, because there were young people who couldn't live a full life, because their parents were on certain lists and couldn't continue to study; they couldn't be, say, doctors, lawyers or anything else. They could have lived a completely different life. They're also victims. So we owe it to each victim to provide real justice, to explore the past. But not as you imagine. This has already been said by my fellow Member, and I will also deal with it in my normal speech. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-28-84	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the KDNP Group, for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-28-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I disagree with the rating that my colleague Attila Mesterházy, Ádám Mirkóczki and István Ikotity, said as a keynote speaker, that is, that the operation of the NEB has actually been condemned. I also disagree that we would not be on the Fidesz-KDNP side of the victims. On the other hand, the reality is that communist crimes are still being explored. Right by the NEB. And it's happening, ladies and gentlemen, because we respect the victims. What happened in the NEB? Last week, the Justice Committee listened to the 2016 report of the NEB, and I am very sorry that none of the lead speakers were able to attend it, it was a public debate. The report by the president of the NEB, I think, was extremely interesting and extremely forward-looking. He told me how to expose crimes. And, as my fellow Member Adam Mirkóczki said, there is a special prosecutor's office in Poland for this, I believe that this can be done within a single prosecutor's system, because they are giving this information to the prosecutor's office, and on this basis, the prosecution is pressing charges based on reasonable suspicion, which has already been made in several cases. The court's judgment is a matter of another branch of power. I don't think that's gonna be at the expense of Parliament or the NEB or the D.A.'s office. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-28-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As the factions have exhausted the two-minute speaking opportunities in this round, now we are going to have speeches in a normal time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény.
u2017-11-28-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On the contrary, it has been said in the keynote speeches that we do not really understand why this bill has now been brought here. I mean, because of its content, we don't really understand it, because there are too big and no substantive amendments to the National Remembrance Committee. I tried to do this, let's just say, I'm not sure I'm on the right track, of course, but it seems to me that there is a part of this amendment before us, which would be about the end of the day when the vice-president resigns from his mandate, which, according to the proposal, which you have brought here, will end on the 10th day after his communication to the president. In my opinion, the strengthening of the President's powers and the rule on the Vice-President's mandate and its termination are likely to refer to the conflict between the two persons, because, by the way, changes in the powers of the Chairman of the Committee do not affect the work of the Committee on National Remembrance in substance. So we have said several times that Fidesz sometimes bombes the house with personalized legislation, or the Members to whom these submissions or proposals for amendment are based. There is probably something similar happening at the time, probably because of the conflict between the President of this National Remembrance Committee and the Vice-President. I think it would be easier, by the way, if they were to say that, if that's the case. Once again, that is what I have seen in all of this, because, as I have said, overall, the changes that you have brought in to this House are not really helping or moving forward the work of this National Remembrance Committee. The clarifications you are about to introduce here, as my fellow Member Mr Nándor Gúr mentioned, that Mr Répássy, Mr Róbert, said in his expozee, that now even a cleaner must make a statement, as I have already said, is not helping the work of this committee. It's like they're technical modifications. For this reason, we did not really understand why this had to come before the House. I have only said this because several of my opposition fellow Members have said that they do not really understand that if we are to amend a bill, then why we are not doing it in substance. 'Cause there's probably gonna be some sort of substantial amendment. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[Nándor Gúr applauds.]]
u2017-11-28-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-28-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Jobbik Hungary Movement has said it a thousand times, and I myself have already said a thousand times what we think, how we should use lustration in Hungary, how we should explore the past, how we should publish agency lists. And whether you like it or not, it's not a rhetorical exaggeration, a thousand speeches are a fact from now on. Let us look at this bill that you are proposing here. I already find it a little strange that, in an institution like this, trying to explore the communist dictatorship, and trying to name those sinners, try to find the cases that should be explored... The most characteristic of communist dictatorships was that it was a one-man leadership, often, by the way, it could be said that it was a leadership based on personal cult, which young people would be less familiar with or known if it were not for the last seven years. For in the last seven years, young people who may not have lived in the communist dictatorship, thanks to the Fidesz administration and Viktor Orbán may have some insight into what the so-called communist dictatorship could have been like at the time; what a dictatorship where there was no freedom of speech; what a dictatorship could have been like, where the press was completely controlled by the party, and only news that had been approved by the party, approved by the bright-eyed leader. What it must have been like to put people in prison for their convictions, only for their thoughts. What it must have been like at a time when a significant part of Hungarian society was terrified that if they didn't follow the communist principles, they would let them go, they wouldn't move forward. We're starting to live in the same era, because if you're not fidesz, you're terrified of getting fired from your job. He's terrified he can't move forward. Most of the media only say what Fidesz thinks is appropriate, and we could still list the characteristics that were characteristic of communist dictatorships, and unfortunately they are beginning to leak back into Hungarian public life, to Hungarian society. We thought that after 1990, after the so-called change of regime, there would never be another one-party system, and now we are half a step away from the formation of a one-party system. This is definitely because of you. And when we talk about such an organisation, it also shows your attitude, because the current changes in this organisation, justified by the reform of the administrative powers of Mr Répássy and the provision of additional rights to the President, are nothing more than that of the president running this organisation in almost one person at the NEB. He decides what working groups should be, what their composition should be, what experts should be employed, what the working order should be. And, here I quote, you justify this in detail by stating that the President has the power to make a proposal. on the Commission's agenda, on the Commission's agenda, on the composition of the working groups led by the Commission, on the Commission's and the Office's annual research work plan, it does not facilitate the effective functioning of the work of the panel, and - and why it does not; and here comes the semi-phrase, which I think is absolutely outrageous and shows very well your attitude: -, since the Commission can vote against the proposals. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Well, it's a big democracy we're talking about. [[12.40]] There is a committee to which you will place responsible people, the president will make a proposal, and now you want to eliminate the possibility that if this committee believes that this is not the right direction and you can vote against the president, so do not; the president will decide on these issues in one person, and the committee members will sit there as organics and carry out what is. Is that democracy? No, it's the dictatorship I was just talking about. In an organisation where the abuses of dictatorship should be discovered, you are attempting to introduce a dictatorial system. I don't think that's acceptable at all. And another question is, you always have to look for the ulterior motives you're filing with a law. Here, the section on the vice president could explain why it had to be included. I suppose there are personal reasons for that. And there is still talk in the proposal of the amendments that the abolition of the form of annual reports so far is justified because it contained too strict constraints and how much better it will be now, because they will now be able to make these reports much more understandable. I think they're just as much excuses and justifications as they are. Then they say that this statement should be deleted and that it is very well justified that, for example, people who used to be involved in, say, the work of a state security organisation can work as a cleaner, and even said as a cleaning woman. It's very lifelike. So you're trying to change this situation because of the cleaning crew. I'm sure it is. We can't doubt it. I'm sure a lot of people who were responsible for the death of people or for the imprisonment of people or any other poor people have already repented of their sin, but they still want to work as a janitor in such an organization. Don't work. Let's give this organization the dignity of people who were involved in the state party not to work as a janitor in an organization like this, to work as a janitor elsewhere if they want to be there. Because that's what you said at the moment. This is ridiculous. These are ridiculous reasons. And the fact that you have to fill out a statement, now you have to change that: can't you fill out a statement for anyone? We should, of course, check if that statement is appropriate. I suppose you may have had problems with that because, as we have mentioned, it has not been brought up. And what is most outrageous in all of this, and Congressman Répássy used it to justify it, he said that in order to reveal the past, there are living witnesses who can very well tell us how the party system worked, how the various apparatuss and the like worked, and now it is not possible to conclude contracts with these people. What? A contract of commission! So you're not chasing those people, you're not trying to get those people out of line, no, you want to sign a contract. Let's say, for example - to give a living example because you didn't tell me, but I would wait with György Mátsik. Why wouldn't they pay György Mátsik some money, right? Do you know who this György Mátsik is? The blood judge who condemned the people who asked for the death penalty as prosecutors to those people, including Peter Mansfeld. And you're welcome to leave it alone. They waited for Péter Mansfeld to turn 18 and executed him. And you let György Mátsik live in peace to this day. Luxury retirement, senior pension. You can't press charges against him because we filed a complaint with Péter Mansfeld's brother, the POFOSZ, and Murányi Levente at the D.A.'s office, they refused to report us. In fact, after that, we can't appeal against it. Don't worry, György Mátsik didn't do anything. I received a rejection from the prosecutor's office that could have been written in the '60s, in essence it was written that Comrade György Mátsik acted in accordance with the law, and it is no problem that he asked for the death penalty, for example, for Péter Mansfeld and for more people. Well, pay him, yeah, yeah, get him another contract. Because it might be about György Mátsik if we change that. But who else could it be? Who else do you want to sign a contract with? Former party secretaries or former party members. Couldn't it be for those Fidesz potentates who would be involved at the moment, that if we were to normally uncover and make the agent lists public, they'd want to give them money, but now they can't legally do it? Then what are they doing? They're changing the law because there's a lot of people in your ranks, everyone knows that, even in high rank, who served the state party. That's why we should talk about it openly, which is why we should publish the agents' lists. Let young people also feel free to know that people in this country who have hurt others, who have destroyed families, who have ruined people's lives, can live their world in a calm and high position to this day. There are such people as György Mátsik, who live only on a luxury pension, but there are those who fill different dignitaries or sit here in the National Assembly. Do you think that's okay, 27 years after the so-called regime change? And then they bring in laws that want to make such changes? And when Jobbik presents the proposals that we can actually make a change to what Adam Mirkóczki said, the Polish example, when we submit it, you will vote against it. Here you can see whether they want real accountability and real past exploration in this country or not. You don't want to. And whatever legal objections you may find, you may refer to any morality, you must state that you do not want to be held accountable. When there will be accountability in this country, it will be when Jobbik comes to government. Believe me, there's a very quick way to get the agents' lists out of the open, if, of course, they don't try to get rid of them as soon as possible so they won't be able to be found. The question of agent lists would be a very important question, but they don't deal with it. And there's one more thing I want to talk to you about here. László Salacz mentioned how important it is to honor the memory of the victims. Let me give you an example, although it is not about the NEB, it is about the Institute of National Heritage, but it is a good example of how much you respect and care for the victims in Hungary under the government of Fidesz. Since 2003, when you go out to plot 301 around the anniversary of the revolution of 56 and you meet with the fact that there is a civil society organization, civilians who have never asked you, not a penny from the current governments and no one, with their own research work on every victim who is out there, who might have had his portrait, written down what he was dealing with, described where he died as a hero, and put these pictures on the graves in plot 301 every October 23. Satisfied, for the relatives of the victims also believe that this gives a face to the victims who lie there, not only to see a grave, but to see who they are. And it worked to the satisfaction of last year. Last year, the head of the National Heritage Institute thought that this was not appropriate; these pictures were outside until November 4th, on November 2nd he collected these pictures and dumped them in the trash bin. From there, the members of the NGO got it back, and then I wrote a written question to the Prime Minister's Office to allow these people to post these photos again this year, as it raises the light of the holiday, the memory. I've been told that the National Heritage Institute can decide to file a request, and they can decide. [[12.50]] They've filed a request - they've rejected it. They said no, it belongs to them, they do it, but they don't do it! They offered very graciously that if they wanted to, they would give them these things, and then they would put them on some website in digital form, and you could look at them there. So much for the memory of the victims, when, once again, civilian people do it with their own money, on their own time, they don't ask you for any help, and they don't want to help these people, but they stop them from remembering their 56 heroes. That's how you're going about this, and I think it's outrageous. To the government who claims to be a national, to take such a attitude to the communist dictatorship period, to protect those sinners who still live among us today, this is simply impertinent and outrageous, and the Movement for Jobbik Hungary will never support you in their efforts. Then, of course, when we do not vote for these laws, then six months will pass, and then you will stand up and say that Jobbik did not want it, because it also voted against this law, and it also voted against that law, laws that really do not serve justice in Hungary, people in Hungary can finally learn the truth, learn the names of the sinners. As long as you do not bring such laws before this House, we will not support them. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-28-90	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, please.
u2017-11-28-91	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would say to Mr Szilágyi that he should not tell me how long we have been demanding this question or how long I have been dealing with it. I have supported this issue since 2005. Ask that question to those who did not support it at the time. In 2005, I made a comment in Parliament on the law at the time, which voted in favour of making them fully public... [[Dr. Vas Imre: Who was the majority in 2005?]] Gentlemen, press a button and we'll hear you in the debate. I understand that you do not like the fact that there is a opposition representative or MSZP representative who is consistent with what he is saying today, and what he said more than ten years ago, if any. So for my part, I have always thought, as a young Member, that it is the right thing to do, either to give a hundred percent of the public, or to acknowledge that we do not want this whole question, we cannot reveal it, but then we must not address it. And it's really amusing when the Fidesz people talk about MSZMPs and anti-communism, when your government has more MSZMP party members than the entire MSZP fraction... [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Now...]] So in this sense it seems that when it is in your interest, of course it is a positive thing, see Mátyás Szűrős or Imre Pozsgay, but when it comes to other cases, we often even listen to László Kövér from the platform, as he is a communist all the time. Therefore, we say that we need a fair, honest and full disclosure, in circumstances that do not mean a witch hunt, but make it possible to get to know the past truthfully. I have always supported this, and I will continue to support it in the future. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-28-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Adam Mirkóczki, Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-28-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman Vejkey made me comment. I told you at the beginning, I think you misunderstood: I do not want to classify people working on the National Remembrance Committee. They do the work, do it and do it as much as the legislative and legislative framework allows. I am talking about the fact that if, in the spirit of anti-Communism work, the purpose really was to explore the past, to blame and punish sinners, then this entire archival law - because this entire National Remembrance Committee would almost be - would go to the trash and instead come the law of analogy of the Polish National Memorial Institute, which is a completely different story. This is it. Not only in your committee, but in many other committees, there are reports from the National Remembrance Committee. I am aware of the work they are doing, and I am also aware that when I confronted one of their colleagues in the National Security Committee with some questions - I do not want to mention - how and how they see the Polish analogy, and in his view it would be feasible in Hungary, he said that it would be absolutely feasible. And the key word has been said: it is a matter of political will. Now, that's the political will that you don't have on any level, because if you do, at least steal the proposal, as usual, and submit the same. We're gonna support it, we're not gonna be pies. But you do not have this political will, which is not a question of money, but a question of will and intention. And the next time you're in Poland, feel free to ask how it works there and feel free to tell the truth because you don't believe it in Poland. They paint such a lying picture of themselves and Viktor Orbán that in Poland they know that he is the largest anti-communist Hungarian politician, and in Hungary the list of agents is public, and there islustration. And when I confront them that they don't, there's no such thing. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's just bullshit, and then they don't believe it. [[The president's ringing again.]] We managed to paint a lying picture... [[Dr. Vas Imre: The Jobbik...]] Press a button, Congressman, and get smart. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-28-94	Thank you, Congressman, you've gone 22 seconds too far. I hope you were able to finish your thinking. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, KDNP. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-28-95	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I find it unworthy and unjust [[Ádám Mir-kókóczki: Me, too!]] that the communist regime was compared by my fellow Member, György Szilágyi, with the national-Christian policy of Fidesz-KDNP by making an equality mark between the two. Therefore, I refuse to do so. [[Attila Mesterházy's intervention.]] Because it doesn't actually lead to anything other than the debauchery of communist crimes. I also reject the fact that there would be no freedom of choice in Hungary and that freedom of the press itself would not be sufficiently effective. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Dr. István Józsa: You know that wrong! Who's watching you say that? Is there a mediation?]]
u2017-11-28-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We'll continue our work. The opportunity has given us different circumstances for this kind of dialogue, which they are currently trying to continue. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr in a normal time frame. Here you go.
u2017-11-28-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I expect Róbert Répássy to speak in this debate. He's not yelling, he's talking... [[Dr. Robert Répássy: I will do it! Ádám Mirkóczki to Dr. Robert Répássy: Correct as usual!]] But not at the end when my fellow Members on the opposition side are unable to give an opinion and their own views [[The president's ringing the bell.]] share it compared to what you're saying. You know, it's your custom, Secretary of State, ministers, not to argue as you go along, not to raise arguments, not to make any demands. You just want to take a position at the end when there is no way and opportunity for Members to debate. This is shameful in itself, as they have been pursuing their policies for the past 7-8 years. Therefore, with great respect, I would like to ask my fellow Member, Mr Répássy, to speak, in the course of the debate, to contradict what my fellow Members say, whether it is socialist, betterman or otherwise; to deny it, and then to see whether his rebuttal will be accepted, or to raise new thoughts in my fellow Members. I don't want to overdo this. I'd like to ask you not to yell from there, no! Get up, tell me. They're talking about something, but I feel like it's against what they're doing. I've seen this before. I've seen this before, because Orbán said something like that so they wouldn't listen to what I'm saying, but what am I doing, or what am I doing the other way around? Make up your mind which one it was. Yeah, that's the tactic they're pursuing with regard to their political behavior. They're talking about something and they're doing something else. You're talking about agent files or the issue of agent lists, and you're not doing anything to make the disclosure happen. Yes, it is, indeed, that three decades are slowly passing, and as time passes, these things may become uninteresting, but I think that if there is already a National Remembrance Committee, that if there is already research work in these areas, it would be worthwhile and appropriate to do these discoveries. [[13.00]] There is obviously a reason for this not to happen; obviously there is a reason. I would like to ask my fellow Member, Mr Répássy, what do you think is the reason for this? What's the reason? I don't ask who's interest is, because you obviously don't like to talk about it, because I believe that is in the interests of those who exercise power today, I say. But at least talk about the reason. But I'm not mistaken, if I say now that I believe you won't press a button, you won't stand up, you won't answer our questions, you won't say anything, but you will only at the end express condemnive thoughts to anyone when you can't do a single word. Yes, it's a form of behavior that you consider to be correct. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] At a time when my fellow Members say that they have at least doubts about freedom of the press and many others, but rather than doubts, they do not want to disprove that. Of course you don't. You know you can't deny that. You can't deny it, because the events of the last seven to eight years are actually about you exercising power. It is actually about the fact that it is no longer about the National Remembrance Committee, but a different kind of research work should be done now, in order to avoid oblivion of what you have done in these 7-8 years. You know, at a time when my fellow Member Mesterházy mentioned it, when, here, in the walls of Parliament, from the top of the pulpit, László Kövér will, where appropriate, communist the left, our faction, many other things, I always think that they are fighting their own demons. I always think about the number of starters, the number of party members, the type of activity that a person had. Did he do his work as a political colleague of a political social science institute and therefore have to fight demons and turn it on others? Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to say that everyone should be aware of their own actions and past personally, and I myself, I am aware of it, I have a very calm spirit and I undertake to be the leader of the Youth Alliance, for example, but Viktor Orbán is also... [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Communist Youth Alliance! Attila Mesterházy: Meg Orbán, Deutsch on Rogán!]] - I say: Viktor Orbán and many of my fellow Members there in the pro-government benches. So these aren't arguments. If a person is dishonest, if he has behaved at the expense of other people, he has done the damage, then of course, there is obviously work to be done in the 20 to 30 years. But I'd like to point out that by putting stamps on some of you and licking your own stamps, you want to wash them off, you can't get ahead of yourself. It would be more like once the real agent lists, agent files, are released. They don't have the courage to do that. They have no courage, because, as my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy said, in his process since 2005, every time this issue, the issue of disclosure of agent lists and agent files, has come before Parliament's walls, then our position was clear: yes, these must be made public. And you want to cover everything up. It's not random. It's not random! I'm asking you about the reasons, fellow Member Répássy. I say: I am no longer looking for what is in the system of interests, but I look forward to the reasons being revealed by my fellow Member. If you refuse and are unable to do so, then I will find it unreliable that you will say anything at the end of this draft bill. I cannot see one word of it as credible, and let alone authentic, I suggest that everyone else in this Parliament, here in Parliament, do not consider it authentic. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert's intervention:]] On the move, my fellow Member, on the move, speak there, and don't yell in. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-28-98	Thank you very much, Mr notary, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members and give the floor to Member Tamás László, Fidesz.
u2017-11-28-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, This is an incredibly sensitive and extremely complex issue that we are talking about. I would like to share with the House a very specific, shocking confession, in my constituency, in that section of the Pestújhely region, almost a system-changing testimony, so that we can know exactly how sensitive this matter is. In 2006, before the 2006 parliamentary elections, in the church of St. John the Baptist in Pestújhely, a highly respected, very old teacher asked the priest to speak. It's an unusual thing, because, let's say, at a church Mass, there's a civilian voice. He went out to the ambo, so he was talking about the ambo, he told the story about the ambo, which, I think, is quite different from the list of agents that you want to publish at 100%. This good teacher was under observation after 56 with a lot of friends who made the cream of the civil community in Pestújhely, and this man was recruited. He was recruited in such a way that he was blackmailed with his very sick wife at the time, and his very sick wife would not have been given medication, and it was more important for him to be able to give his wife medication than to be persuaded to do different things. It was an incredible confession, he told me that he was asked to be present at the church to report on X, Y, Z. There, struggling with her tears, she said in a torn voice that I meant nothing to you. But we don't know if that's what's in the files. László Hajdu, mayor of the time - unfortunately, the only DK mayor of the country - sat in the front row, reddish, sweaty, found, and this man made a change of system gesture with his testimony about the church pulpit. I'm listening here to the representatives of the MSZP, who are the successors of the MSZMP, and so those who created the entire agency system, those who took what they wanted out of the agency papers, removed what they wanted, removed what they wanted. So, basically, you were playing games, you had time, you had the opportunity to play with this, and now you want this very, very good, well-known teacher to be dishonored even in death? What do you think you're doing? ! I believe that if one should not speak on this issue, those socialist politicians who are not worthy of anything. [[Attila Mesterházy: For thou art worthy!]] So I think, on behalf of this good, well-respected teacher, I ask myself that you teach Fidesz-KDNP about agent lists. [[Attila Mesterházy: We want you to teach us! What do you think you're doing?]] Thank you for your attention, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-100	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás László. I will give the floor in two minutes to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, notary, Jobbik.
u2017-11-28-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I find the situation - to quote my fellow Member Vejkey - which is currently taking place here in this Parliament, and the declaration that he is a national and a Christian, actually I feel rather that it is seen in statements made by a lying government. Because we really need system-changing gestures, as the previous speaker said, but unfortunately these system-changing gestures are the only ones that are missing - do you know? ! [[13.10]] Let me give you a specific example. After 1990, the head of the newly elected Reformed Episcopal Faculty would have asked three ministers of the Interior for a total of 12 years to receive the files of the Reformed Church Office, which is one of the branches of state agency organisations, obviously the Reformed Church. How many times do you think he got it? The Reformed Church never got it once. To this day, the state is therefore in a position of blackmail against churches. However, given that I only pressed a two-minute button, I will now close this comment briefly, but the national memory has not only a committee, but national memory lives here among us, and much information has been provided, say, to this bishop and other church leaders about the pastors, once actively reporting to the ÁEH, as well as their relatives, which we now know. We know that, but we don't have the papers yet. And in this respect, we can also know that you are here in Parliament, and not only your parliamentary representatives, but also at ministerial level, who are involved in this problem. Thank you so much for letting me speak. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-28-102	Thank you, notary. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény for two minutes, MSZP.
u2017-11-28-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Tamás László should not try to teach us what we can and cannot do, nor do we care what you think we are capable of or what we are not. His speech was particularly outrageous, and it was particularly outrageous after my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, said before him that he was the leader of a youth alliance, then the fellow Member of Répássy intervened that he was a member of a Communist Youth Association, yes, as it was said, for example, that your great leader, Viktor Orbán, was also a member. Besides, let's add that there are a lot more pro-state people sitting between your benches than between us, and let's add that, by the way, I was 11 years old at the time of the change of regime, and I understand that I also had a lot of sins about it, but regardless of that, it's very fashionable for you to be communists again. Ask Gyula Budai's fellow Member, who is not present now, who, let's say, has been communicating the entire judiciary recently. So I understand these angers that you're trying to generate, but, you know, the unworthy thing is that you're trying to teach us. I'm not lecturing you. I'm just rejecting what you said. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-28-104	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Attila Mesterházy, Member of the MSZP, will take the floor.
u2017-11-28-105	Thank you very much. Mr President, It is truly outrageous that Tamás László thinks that he can tell Parliament who has the right to comment on a subject and who does not have the right to comment on a subject. [[Dr. István Józsa: Constitutional Fundamental Rights!]] Basically, I think you're right about one thing: there were many people who didn't willingly join this system in the service of this system, or as agents III/III, they didn't perform such activities for fun or pleasure, and I'm sure that this may have come up because of many family tragedies or other situations. I think it's a true statement. Just as it is true that some have not joined, and some have joined with enthusiasm. So there are certainly several categories of people who have joined this circle on the basis of what motivation or coercion. Many people say that many people had to join the MSZMP, right, because their careers were either their material, existential security, or I don't know what they were depending on. I basically accept this as a human move, and I don't judge how to do it; but I would add that there were some people who didn't enter the MSZMP, despite the fact that it might have put their careers in the background, or, if necessary, not given their careers such a recovery. For example, my parents didn't enter the MSZMP; somehow they were told, but they didn't want to join the MSZMP. I am about your son's age, Mr. honourable Member, because I looked at his biography, and one of his children was born in 73; I was born in 74. So I have as much to do with the system as your son has to do with this system. And just to be clear, we just don't want to break a wand over anyone. We do not want the truth to be told on a political basis. That's what it's about when we talk about 100% publicity. You say it's a MSZP - not MSZMP, a MSZP! - you can't talk about this. But, please, how can you bear that László Kövér, the Speaker, was MSZMP member, Járai Zsigmond was MSZMP member, Matolcsy was central bank president, minister, János Martonyi was MSZMP member, Rózsa Hoffmann was State Secretary, István Stumpf was a Minister, member of the Constitutional Court, János Fónagy was a MSZMP member, Attila Chikán was a former Minister of MSZMP member, Imre Boros was a MSZMP member, Minister Mikola was a State Secretary, Mr. Harrach was a member of MSZMP member, Pál Schmitt was also a member. I would just like to say that Hungarian history is much more complex and colorful than to distinguish between man and man in such a simple way. And you are right that this debate is a more complicated debate than merely a question that can be discussed in black and white. Therefore, I would beware of making such revelations about who has the right to speak and who does not have the right to speak on an issue that seriously affects Hungarian history and, moreover, is very close to this history to be judged with sufficient objectivity. So I was merely trying to say that we need clean, honest and full disclosure, where neither one government nor one party, nor the other government, nor the other party, can use them for party policy purposes. In my mind, a clean, honest discovery is also inside what you're talking about, that there were some people who couldn't possibly avoid being put in a difficult position, and that's why they should be part of something that every part of their body might have protested against. So I would simply expect some objectivity from you when we talk about this issue, and I merely spoke about this law or this amendment that I believe that the body that you have created is not fulfilling the task that you created it for. And to change that by what kind of conflict of interest statement you don't have to fill out right now, I don't think that's a whiff, that doesn't have to be dealt with. It is true that the different tragedies, sins, or dark pages of the past really reach the young who no longer lived the hardest period or disadvantages of this system, because we do not commit the sins of the past by remembering what happened. This is true of Communist crimes, it is true of the Holocaust, to mention another tragedy from the past. So all I'm saying is that we should stand on this issue objectively, with sufficient abstinence and without witch-hunt, not so party-politically, and I'm going to lecture that and that and the other, and who has the right to do so. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-28-106	Thank you, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2017-11-28-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I wouldn't have said anything to him, but frankly, I was completely outraged by Tamás László's speech. Congressman, what you're doing is simply sneaky, and what you said here is outrageous. He once brought politics into it, slylyly, secretly accused László Hajdu, who I do not know if László Hajdu has committed these crimes or not, but you have brought politics even here into his opponent, who cannot forgive that you lost all the power you had in that district, and you were the master of life and death. The other thing that bothers me, and I challenge myself on behalf of the victims, or even on behalf of my grandfather, to save the people who have destroyed families and human lives! I object to you trying to exonerate these people. Only one person can have the right to forgive these people or not if his name is made public: the victims. The victims should be given the opportunity to decide whether the person who destroyed, say, his life, destroyed his family's life, or could be responsible for the death of any of his family members by reporting on him or snitching on him or doing anything to forgive this man. [[13.20]] And I think that a lot of people would forgive me, but that doesn't mean that these people's names should be hidden, because you think they're protecting those sinners who, once again, have destroyed human lives. No! You have to know these people's names, you have to know them. He has a right to know the victims, the families of the victims, who they were who destroyed them, and they can decide. In fact, I would go a little further, but I just don't want to go all the way in this direction, so that they don't smile yet - Imre Vejkey won't smile for it - even the victims don't have the right to forgive us because we're not gods. One has the right to forgive these sinners. I'm absolutely outraged by your attitude towards this. Do you know where this whole thing is going? We're supposed to be arguing here, not about whether or not to go public with the agent files. It's not about naming the III/IIIs or anyone who reported it. We should argue that it would be an appropriate debate as to the circumstances under which these people have become, say, informants. But it doesn't matter, by the way, given the state you're saying, whether you just got the medicine or not. I didn't know this teacher. But if he took the job to get the medicine, but he didn't report anything to anyone, can you believe that he might have received the medicine? Congressman, you're just aware of what happened in this country during the time that people were destroyed here. But this could be a legitimate debate, why did people take the initiative to force them into a situation for money or for such a situation? And you could tell me. Just remember that every traitor has a reason for what he did. And this is not what should be in this country 27 years after the change of regime, discussing whether or not these people's names could be made public. We should hold on to the main question, because these actions, these discoveries, should lead us to what he would do if he didn't give to us, once we did, or the young generation who didn't live in communism would be in the same situation. Now, that's the legitimate question. How would we behave in a situation like this? Are we going to become agents or aren't we going to become agents? 'Cause now it's easy to say no. But how would we behave? But if we don't talk about why someone has become an agent, what the effects of this act, or writing a report, have on other people's lives, because we're obscenely listening to it - there are rights to the man who reported on someone, and he may have ruined his whole life, so let's not go public with his name. If we don't get this far, we will commit great sins for the future. And they don't understand. I'll give you another example. I didn't care if Béla Bisku went to jail or not. You and the D.A.'s office have arranged that he didn't go to jail. The moment that Béla Bisku was sitting alone in court was the moment that mattered. But then he was not only sitting in front of the court, but all the former Communist leaders who were no longer living were sitting next to him, all of them starting with János Kádár, and the Hungarian court said that they had committed a crime at the time. That's the point. It's not that these people are going to jail or not going to jail. The point is that we give them the opportunity, by the way, because there may also be a number of people who, if their name went public, would lose a huge burden because they could talk about these issues because they would no longer have a choice. 'Cause maybe you've been trying to stand up for years and say, like, say, this teacher said, or don't stand up. You'll have no choice but to stand up and tell me. And the victims can decide whether to speak to this man or not to speak to him. It's our historic responsibility. Well, if you don't understand...! This isn't about a witch hunt. It's about getting justice. Let us also bring justice to those who may have lived their lives many times by dying bitterly. The people they took everything from, let's say, from the kulaks who had everything on the ground. My grandfather was like that, he had everything on the ground. All the money he made from the ground, he invested in the ground. Until his death, I saw the sadness in his eyes that caused him to be taken away and to know that he had been reported and that he had been taken to prison for being reported. These people had lives, too! And now we can talk about how these people are old and regretting what we want with György Mátsik. Peter Mansfeld wanted to be old. He wanted to have a family, he wanted to have children, maybe he wanted to see the so-called change of regime, only he didn't have it, because there was a György Mátsik who served the power at that time, and many others who were involved. But this György Mátsik lives his life in peace. And it's not enough that Bence Rétvári comes in every year in a Mansfeld Peter T-shirt. When we reported him, he wasn't on our side. When you have to fight for the truth, when you have to fight to find out the truth about these people, you're no longer standing there, and you're the Secretary of State. These are the big questions. Once again, we should get to the point where we can talk about what we or a generation who didn't live in communism would do in this situation. But you know this, we can only talk about it if we explore these cases and know the life paths that these reports or these activities have caused, which these people have done in this country. So what I'm saying is that I'm outraged by what Tamás László did here in Parliament. I think it would be best if you were to press a two-minute charge and apologize to the victims - not me or others, the victims - to violate the memory of the victims with such a speech. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-28-108	Thank you, Congressman Szilágyi. We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2017-11-28-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am no longer asking Robert Répássy to participate in the debate, because he is no longer in the room. But I'm asking Tamás László to do one thing. And that is to demand that Fidesen, within the framework of the Christian Democratic People's Party, publish the list of agents. Make a demand. Be brave within your own faction and demand, yes, a clear and clear picture. Yes, that everyone who is close to you should also face what you face. Clear and honest, clear exploration must be made. Fight for this. It's worth it. You know, my fellow Member, I think the public is important because today, in terms of this type of case, it is not the decisions of the courts, not those which are proportionate, which anyone is waiting for. It is society and people's judgment that is decisive in this regard. And if we think that we want a clean and clear discovery, then you still have a majority that can be supported from the opposition side, and you would have had support for this for many years and decades. But not only did you not live up to it, but you stopped it. You don't want to face reality. Instead, it's easier to try to frame others. You have to face reality. The reality that concerns you, where appropriate, your immediate environment. Mr. President. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-28-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Congressman Csaba Hende will take the floor in two minutes.
u2017-11-28-111	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr Szilágyi's statement moved me to ask for the floor. You said, my fellow Member, pointing to us, that you had arranged for Béla Bisku not to go to jail. I call on you, honourable Member, either to support your statement with facts, or to withdraw this outrageous sentence here and now, and to apologize to all of us. [[13.30]] He also said something very strange: he said about the excellent speech by Tamás László, which I admire, that no one, not even the victims, has the right to forgive. I hope, my fellow Member, that you know the Lord's Prayer, the Lord's Father, and you may have thought about it at that time. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You didn't pay attention!]] when we pray to the Lord to forgive us our trespasses, just as we forgive those who trespass against us. You must have heard of István Széchenyi, who said in one place that we Hungarians are so few, that even the father killer must be forgiven here. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-28-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Two minutes. [[Dr. István Józsa: There are so few of us.]] I give the floor to Congressman Szilágyi.
u2017-11-28-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Congressman Hende, you're going to study the Bisku case a little, and you're going to find out why I said it. I don't want to, because it wouldn't take two minutes to tell you what you did in this case and what you didn't do. [[Csaba Hende: Say it! Don't insult me, just say it.]] That's one of them. On the other hand, on the matter of faith, honourable Member, I would like to offer you the attention of a documentary in which a human being has best expressed to me what it means to believe in God. It was about a woman whose mother threw her life on the street - not in Hungary, by the way - and lived a normal life after difficult ordeals. The reporter asked him if he would forgive his mother now, when he met his mother, because they were brought together. Then this lady said, "Who am I, to forgive her, to forgive her." I cannot forgive him, and God will forgive him - and he believes that God will forgive him. I said the same thing, Congressman, but you weren't listening. You sit in here a lot... not a lot, sorry, that's an exaggeration. [[Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]] Sometimes he sits here in Parliament, then he tries to draw conclusions out of sentences, and then he tries to speak very hard. So listen to what we're talking about, and then you'll understand. I didn't say the victims couldn't forgive me. I said that it might even be possible to give the victims the opportunity to forgive, but perhaps not even the victims' right to forgive, but God's. You and I will be before God, by the way, whether you believe that or not, and God will decide which of us was who, and to whom, he will give forgiveness and which one of us will not. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-28-114	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. Congressman Robert Répássy is preparing. You have the floor, Congressman. [[In the notary seat Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by László Földi.]]
u2017-11-28-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There was a lot of debate in the House on our bill, and Members argued about it. Undoubtedly, I did not wish to comment on the debate in which Jobbik and the representatives of the MSZP competed on who the greater anti-communist was. I apologize if I didn't want to argue with Ádám Mirkóczki or György Szilágyi about this, but especially with Attila Mesterházy or Nándor Gúr who was more anti-communist, who wanted to explore the past more. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Better than you? Everybody!]] On the other hand, I would like to note that the President of Jobbik celebrated the 1956 Revolution on 23 October by making a surprising, I might say, shocking statement. He said, "I don't care what it is that separates me anymore, but what it is that connects me. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: This is very surprising, really!]] I don't care who's left and right, who's moderate and radical, who's conservative, who's liberal. I think that the right-wing Members have fallen behind with a pamphlet, probably not following the warnings of their party president in this debate. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: The fact that you don't understand that you have problems means! György Szilágyi intervenes.]] But I would like to tell you that Jobbik did not vote for the Fourth Amendment to the Fundamental Law. I didn't start by forgetting the fourth amendment to the Fundamental Law for a reason. Jobbik did not vote for Article U of the Fundamental Law, the first parts of which sound like: The first free elections that took place in 1990 are incompatible with the state set-up based on the rule of law and the preemptive communist dictatorship. The Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party and its predecessors, as well as other political organisations set up to serve them in the spirit of communist ideology, were criminal organisations whose leaders were not overjoyed in their responsibility for maintaining, controlling, violating and betraying the repressive system; the elimination of the multi-party democratic experiment of the years following the Second World War with Soviet military assistance; [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Read the entire Fundamental Law!]] the establishment of a legal order based on exclusive power and lawlessness; the liquidation of the economy based on the freedom of property and the debt of the country; For placing Hungary's economy, defence, diplomacy and human resources under foreign interests; the systematic destruction of the values of the European civilisation tradition; [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Mr President, will we hear the whole Fundamental Law? György Szilágyi: Read the whole story! Dániel Z. Carpathian: This is unbelievable!]] to deprive or severely restrict citizens and their groups of fundamental human rights, in particular for the murder of people, for the granting of foreign power, for the unlawful imprisonment, for the forced labour camp, for the torture, for the inhumane treatment of their citizens, for the arbitrary deprivation of their property, for the restriction of their rights to property; for the full removal of the freedoms of citizens, for the imposition of political opinions and wills by the State; for the purposes of their origin, world view or political convictions, [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Why should the Fundamental Law be read? That's amazing.]] to prevent discrimination, obstruction of progress and justice based on knowledge, diligence and talent; to establish and operate secret polices that seek to monitor and influence people's privacy illegally; the forced escape from the homeland of two hundred thousand Hungarians for the strangulation, subsequent reign of terror and retaliation of the revolutionary and war of independence in cooperation with Soviet invaders on 23 October 1956; for all the criminal offences committed on the basis of political motives, which the judiciary did not pursue on political grounds. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, you didn't vote for this in the two... [[György Szilágyi: But you gave the flag to Gergely Pongráz! Dániel Z. Carpathian: That doesn't make you right! The president's gonna ring the bell.]] -...two opposition groups did not vote for either the MPs of Jobbik or the representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party. I wanted to say this because in the debate it seemed like everyone was on the same platform on this issue. I'm sorry that when you had to act, you didn't prove it. Dear House, The bill changes the regulation of the National Remembrance Committee by increasing the powers of the President in addition to maintaining the efficiency of the corporate work, and maintaining the corporate character. The National Remembrance Committee has a very important role to play, carrying out the work set out in Article U of the Fundamental Law I have just mentioned. I regret that you do not want to contribute to the continued effectiveness of the National Remembrance Committee. Please consider it. If you have made the mistake of not branding communism in the Fundamental Law, you have not branded communist crimes in the Fundamental Law. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Read it again!]] then at least leave the National Remembrance Committee to work and do everything possible to enable the National Remembrance Committee to carry out its task, which is a constitutional duty [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Is that why it had to be read?]] and which truly serves the interests of future generations. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-28-116	Thank you very much, Congressman Répássy Róbert. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: The speech of the day! Fantastic!]] Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. [[13.40]] Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXCIX on public service officials follows. Act XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission submitted by MEPs Gergely Gulyás, Csaba Hende and Róbert Répássy Fidesz T/18565. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy, the rapporteur of the item, in a 30-minute time frame.
u2017-11-28-117	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am presenting our bill in the hope that it may cause a smaller debate than the previous proposal. I assume this from the fact that the Parliament's Committee on Justice voted unanimously and unanimously on the proposal, including the votes of opposition representatives. I hope that we will find out here whether this unanimity really reflects political will. Dear House, The Office of Parliament and the organisation of the Parliament need the work of highly prepared civil servants and other staff. We experience this every day, we experience the work of parliamentary officials and civil servants every day, as they help the work of Parliament's plenary session, the work of individual committees, or even the work of individual Members. Therefore, in the bill before us, we propose that the Parliament should establish an independent career model of the Office of Parliament, i.e. we propose that, instead of general civil servants' regulations, an independent system of rules should apply to parliamentary civil servants, so above all, this bill contains an independent model of careers for parliamentary civil servants. Obviously, this independent career model is much like a career model for civil servants. I would like to note here that, on the proposal of the Government, the Parliament has already made significant progress for civil servants, in many respects wage increases, salary increases and I would say that it will help the public administration by introducing real career models. It is time not only for the public administration staff to receive this independent career model - in addition to the fact that, obviously, other state organisations such as law enforcement organisations, the defence and police have already received an independent career model from Parliament - we believe that the civil servants of the Parliament Office should also have an independent career. What does the independent career mean? What do we call a career in a civil servant's life? Obviously, it means that everyone in the organization should receive adequate remuneration on the basis of their work, their qualifications or abilities, and their duties, and they should also be able to make progress. In order to do this, he must clearly see a clear and transparent career path in the law, which means motivation for him. It is a motivation for the employees of the Parliamentary Office to get from one to two, to move up in this particular career system, in this career system. Not that this is not the case for civil servants, but our proposal, unlike the regulation of civil servants, proposes, like the State Audit Office, a salary and salary system adapted to the country's national economic capabilities. As early as 2011, in the case of the State Audit Office, Parliament decided that the independence, professionalism and career career of the State Audit Office of the State would be facilitated by linking the current salary increase to the performance of the national economy, i.e. by making it conditional on political will or political will to change the salary at the State Audit Office every year. I believe that this is justified not only by the State Audit Office, which has a special control function, but also by the Parliament, it is also appropriate to introduce such a system of salaries. So in the future, the salary of parliamentary civil servants, parliamentary officials would depend on the performance of the national economy, and a certain salary basis, calculated on the basis of a formula, will not bore you, will in the future calculate the salary of the parliamentary officials. From then on, if the country's economic performance permits, the salary of parliamentary officials will increase, and if the country's economic performance does not give rise to this, if it does not change in the future, or at least does not reduce the salary of officials. I would like to point out, before someone misunderstands our proposal, that this proposal does not apply to Members of Parliament and officials elected from Members of Parliament. This applies only to officials, so to speak, the apparatus of the Parliamentary Office. I would also like to add that the proposal also includes a reference to the fact that this solution will be a step forward in the future for non-officials, civil servants and employment workers working in Parliament, not only for civil servants, but also for those who have been doing good work for a long time, but not for civil servants, but also for other contracts. In the press, there was a completely unfounded and incomprehensible number war about how much the salary increase would result from this bill. A fee increase of 45 per cent may be carried out under duress. I would like to emphasise the word, the average, because obviously there are those who are less than that, or some who can receive a higher rate. I would like to remind you here that the Parliament has already decided that the salaries of civil servants working in the public administration, at least those working in government offices and district offices, may increase by 30% or more in some cases. Thus, with officials or officials working in the public administration, Parliament has already made this increase in salaries, so we have already done so there on the government's proposal that the career model be provided with a salary adapted to professional performance. I ask you to support the ideas of the Office of Parliament, especially because the officials of Parliament have so far been left out of the salary increase, and, as I said, the Parliament is an organisation whose officials, by its nature, do the most important work in the life of the Parliament, the legislative process, and it is also necessary that their careers, their career models, as I said, should not depend on the political will at all, but depend on an objective indicator on their progress, or that year after year their salary growth depends on indicators that politics can only influence veryly. Obviously, the performance of the national economy can, of course, be influenced by politics, but in no way in the sense that the fixed fixing of the salary base in civil servants' salaries is a different way of calculating salaries. [[13.50]] So I stress that this would not be unique, in the case of the State Audit Office, this salary calculation has been included in our laws for several years. There is no reason for the Office of Parliament to apply a different salary calculation than the Office of the State Audit Office of the National Assembly, the Supervisory Body of Parliament. For workers here, it is at least as important to have an objective salary determination independent of the policy at hand. Please support our bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-118	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present his position during the debate. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Hende, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-28-119	Dear Parliament, Mr President, One of the most fundamental and important principles of the democratic rule of law is the doctrine of popular sovereignty. This means that the people are the source of power. Voters give the authority to exercise public authority. The other rule of law guarantee, which is equivalent to popular sovereignty, is the principle of popular representation. The debate of the country's affairs is left to the legislative body embodied by the elected representatives of the country. The Fundamental Law of Hungary also lays down that citizens elect representatives of the National Assembly of Hungary every four years. This not only gives Members the right to exercise power and representation, but at the same time the burden of the tasks that citizens want to solve is on their shoulders. The National Assembly is obliged to establish a framework for the functioning of the Hungarian State in the highest degree of humility and commitment to the nation, by influencing and controlling the government. I would like to add to this, Mr House, that we must never forget to thank those reliable and highly qualified employees who are helping our work and at the same time the Parliament itself, the main representative body of our country on the day-to-day basis. It is a constitutional principle for civilised democratic states to ensure that parliaments perform their functions effectively and without undue external interference. The functioning of the Hungarian Parliament in accordance with these essential requirements is ensured by the collaborating official organisation which supports it. This office is the Office of Parliament, which is the central budgetary body responsible for the organization, operation, administration and preparation of decisions of the Parliament, which ensures that all tasks related to the performance and operation of the Hungarian legislation are carried out. The staff of the Office voluntarily undertake to serve the State and voluntarily undertake to assist those exercising public authority in the performance of their public tasks with exemplary and humble conduct from their profession, as well as with a high level of professional competence and confidentiality. Dear House, Both the significant public-law situation of Parliament and the outstanding public interest linked to its impartial, efficient and objective functioning justify the creation of a career opportunity for civil servants of the Office, similar to other career models introduced in recent years. The professional knowledge, outstanding abilities, human behaviour, ethic and confidential work of civil servants supporting the task of legislative power are crucial factors. Accordingly, it is appropriate to lay down specific rules on their progress and to adopt those rules on Parliament's 2012 XXXVI. See also Act XCIX of 2011 on Public Service Officers, in addition to the provisions which have not been laid down here. Law 1 shall continue to apply as underlying legislation with subsidiary effect. I believe that it is necessary to support the proposal that has been tabled because the career model that it is planning to create, the system of advancement, is an excellent reflection of the prestige of the parliamentary civil servant status, it creates a stable balance between the skills acquired, quality work and remuneration, and the recognition of those working in the various branches of power. This is not a new idea, it is not a unique idea, since since 2011, the legislation in force regarding the auditors of the State Audit Office also takes into account the fact that the effective and non-influenced operation of the main financial and economic control body of Parliament is an essential guarantee of the performance of Parliament's functions. Therefore, the proposed legislation, the provisions to be amended and repealed, are intended to ensure the coherence of the legal system. In order to be transparent and harmonised in our national law, it is also essential to amend the Public Service Officers Act in this case. It is also necessary to transfer the proposed amendments to the Act on Parliament. Not only is it legal, but it is also a matter of principle that provisions relating to the special work of civil servants of the Office are laid down in the same law as those concerning the constitutional body itself. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent decades, the parliamentary apparatus of the most fundamental and outstanding constitutional institution of the democratic functioning of the Hungarian state, the Parliament, has earned the right to hold its deserved and earned place in the rankings of those who perform the state service. This is also what the new regulation that we intend to introduce, which I hope will meet with the full agreement of my fellow Members. I trust I have succeeded in convincing you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is indeed crucial to support this bill. Thank you for your support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-120	Thank you, Congressman Csaba Hende. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-11-28-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It concerns the development of salaries and other benefits for people working in the public service, within the Parliamentary Office, in the negotiation of this draft law. I definitely think it is positive and I judge that there will be a substantial increase in salaries to be taken home by public service workers working in the Parliamentary Office. So my basic point is that this thing is okay. This is all right, of course I have to add that a new career model is being developed, which is basically about a life model. There are many features, there are very positive elements. It also includes the fact that after 36 years of service, people can be classified in a high grade. There are things in it that can be asked whether it is good or not. Firstly, a differentiation based on a performance assessment or the possibility of differentiation of salaries. I think it's okay. There is another part of the matter, which is that every four months, or one third of a year, this can always be overwritten. I think that gives rise to a certain degree of uncertainty, a sense of security, and a lot more. I don't think, I don't think, that a person's performance is fundamentally affected by significant changes both in an extra or negative sense, given a one-third of the time horizon. [[14.00]] It would be worth reconsidering whether this is not a category of extermination in this sense. There are, I said, extra elements that can be supported. For example, in contrast to 25 years so far, the Jubilee Prize is after 20 years. The comments I would like to make in line with this bill are as follows. As I said in the introductory thought, it is about a substantial increase in salaries for those working at the Parliamentary Office. There is also an additional part of the matter, a contribution to a bank account, an employer's acceptance of a reference to a salary account; these are also the right steps, so I am not speaking against them. Of course, this would be a good thing if it were so everywhere in the public service, not just for those working in the Parliamentary Office. In determining the salary, the draft law states that KSH will be taken into account on the basis of a gross average salary one year earlier. For this purpose, it shall use various multiplying numbers in driver's or assistant manager's positions. The monthly basic salary of the heads of the administrative body shall be 5.3 times that amount. The basic salary of their deputies is 4.3 times that amount, and of course they are accompanied by other benefits, in the case of managers, State Secretary's allowances, in the case of alternates, Deputy State Secretary's allowances. Obviously, this means a proper, adequate appreciation. The President of the House, through him, the Director-General, has more special licenses to do with this. Even if you can make different rules, you can establish them. Quasi can bring such rubber rules to life, anyone can be hired, even beyond what can be included in the system of other periphery conditions. Classifications are basically made in two classes: I and II. Class III, for those with a higher education degree and without a higher education degree. In higher education, grade I is assigned to those who have the document, document and are required to fill and perform the task. This is again a subjective category, on the one hand, and on the other hand, I think that it is always necessary to consider the possibility of hiring people who can be paid, based on their qualifications, together with the corresponding salaries. The possibility of a diversion of basic salary may also be envisaged. It can be reduced by up to 20 percent and increased by up to 50 percent. There is no problem that, if this can be done, if it can be increased, only in the case of a reduction, it is necessary to ensure that the grounds for such a reduction are based on real ground. The minimum amount of the guaranteed minimum wage is, in my opinion, not expected, but minimal compliance with the law. The replacement salary of the managers, the extra salary beyond basic salary, amounts to 20 per cent of the basic salary. But in order to address other issues of detail, in further training or in terms of benchmarking, as I have said, in my reading, rubber rules are behind it, subjectivity can largely determine when, where, what, who, how, how. With regard to extraordinary work, the draft law states that 180 days must be issued or replaced, within which time must be allowed. It would be worth comparing, let's say, the regulatory system of the Labour Code, where the issue of redemption and other issues are not exactly defined in this way. It is possible to donate an address, here the number of employees is 20 per cent, so one in five people can have a title donation. For what I have mentioned above, minus 20, plus 50 per cent of the salary to be hijacked, a clear set of criteria must be in the background to ensure that there is no vulnerability, no compliance with the boss without conditions, but that what is clearly tangible and justified. [[István Ikotity is replaced by István Szávay in the notary seat.]] What I see from this bill is that it's not even. It is not even for those who, let's say, carry out public service work and those who carry out administrative activities. With regard to case managers and with regard to administrative background tasks and physical activities, today's relations are transformed into work relations according to the draft, people are included within the framework of the Labour Code. This, based on the work law drawn and adopted in 2011, brings to life a very serious pressure, not a plus, but a minus content. So, in addition to all these comments, I would like to make the following findings. The increasing salaries of the Hungarian Socialist Party and of my part must be supported. Of course, we want this to cover the entire public service. And it wouldn't be any different at all. But that's not true. Unfortunately, today it's not true. In many areas of public service, people have reduced access to resources. They operate the public service on the basis of a non-standard career model. I'm sure you know, but if you don't, I'd like to indicate that the salary is now 9 years unchanged, HUF 38 650. You'll have eight years of that on your own. 38 650 forints. There has not been a government cycle in Hungary since the moment of the change of regime, where this would not have grown. Even during the period of the first Orbán government. Now, during the period of the second and third Orbán governments, this remains the same. He didn't grow with one single penny. That's unprecedented. This is unprecedented, as I said, there has been growth in every four-year cycle, only now, not in the cycles of the second and third Orbán governments. This needs to be changed. Returning to the content of the draft law, I also think it is worth reconsidering whether the review of the four-month benchmarking is appropriate, reasonable and good to go through. Is it not for the foundation of processes that, I tell you, may fall into the category of destruction? [[14.10]] Is it not intended to strengthen the type of processes that can strengthen vulnerability, which will provide additional room for manoeuvre in terms of subjectivity for employees at management level? I don't think that your superiors need to seek your superior favors to determine the manner in which the salaries, the actions that may be brought in hand. This bill, as I said, is about regulating the salary of a limited circle, but it forgets a lot of people. I know. You can say that's what this is about. I am saying that, in addition to this point, the introduction of a single career model for civil service workers as a whole and the establishment of a pay and wage system should be ensured. In the past, we have often put forward proposals for legislative amendments that have affected more than that, and our proposals could have led to a positive shift for them, too. Fidesz rejected that then. I now ask you, pro-government politicians, not to reject this thinking after the adoption of this law, but to take action on other people working in the public service. Once again, try to put together regulatory systems that are not based on subjectivity and not on any compliance with the boss. Not only do we not regret a single penny surplus from anyone, but we say that all the resources that can be given to the employee, the public servant, against a decent job should be given; but once again, as a last thought, I stress that not only the Office of Parliament, not only to the employees of the parliamentary background, but also to the public service as a whole. We will also present an amendment in this respect. I would like to ask you, with all due respect, of you pro-government Members, to support this. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-11-28-122	Thank you, Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2017-11-28-123	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/18565. Legislative bill No. 1 deals with the establishment of a career model for civil servants at the Parliament's Office as the central budgetary body responsible for the tasks of Parliament. According to the Christian Democrats, the effective and non-influenced functioning of the Parliament as a prerequisite for the democratic functioning of the state is partly ensured by the involvement of the official organisation supporting it. The state of public law of the Parliament, as well as the outstanding public interest in its independent and efficient functioning, justifies the creation of a career opportunity for the civil servants of the Office, just like other career models that have been successfully introduced in recent years. The professional knowledge and abilities of civil servants supporting the legislative process are crucial in supporting the functioning of the Parliament, so it is appropriate to establish special rules for their advancement and to present these rules simultaneously in the Act on Parliament. Ladies and Gentlemen, The need to regulate the new parliamentary civil servant status is justified by the high level of professional tasks performed at the Office of Parliament, as well as the organisational and operational characteristics of the Office of Parliament, which must also be adapted to certain elements of the parliamentary civil servant status. The career model and system of advancement developed by this regulation reflect the prestige of the parliamentary civil servant status, the balance between the expertise invested in it, quality work and remuneration, and the recognition of those working in different branches of power. The independent career model of the Parliamentary Office is not new. With regard to the auditors of the State Court of Auditors, the rules in force since 2011 have likewise taken into account the effective and non-influenced operation of the main financial and economic control body of the Parliament in order to ensure the function of the Parliament. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary faction supports the bill. Please support it, as you did at the Justice Committee meeting this week on Monday. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-28-124	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. I give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-28-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear tableds, I would like, first of all, to appeal to my fellow Member, Répássy, who said that a kind of career model has already been introduced in general with regard to civil servants, and now it would be an extension of this; specifically with regard to civil servants working in the Parliamentary Office. Let me begin by saying that, while we are in favour of this proposal, we will vote in favour of this proposal, although we will be submitting amendments to it which are of a certain nature helpful and intended to improve, you are not, and you are not right on this issue, that there is no general civil servant career. This, please respectfully, was frozen in November 2008 with the IMF pact, when, at the same time as the signing of the shameful pact, the Gyurcsány government undertook to freeze all these allowances in the public sector with a feather stroke. Since 2008, the basic salary of civil servants has not increased by a penny, we are still talking about HUF 38 650. That's why he couldn't have raised the wages of the people in this house... practically the Kttv. They could only receive their wages on the basis of their classification in accordance with the classification given by the Court of Justice, or if they had made one step forward in terms of years and classification, they could only increase their wages. And by donating certain titles, by using a certain hijacking, they had the opportunity, but that their wages would be settled in a normative way and comprehensively, as well as in the public sector as a whole, has now been waiting for 8-9 years. That is why, for years now, since the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has been in parliament, we have been calling for the IMF pact to be terminated in this sense. In fact, this could no longer be an obstacle, since after 2011, after the loan received from this loan was repaid, and even after that, the commitments for the European Union ceased in this way, there would be no reason for the current Hungarian government to take a big step and solve this problem; but no, it has not solved it yet. Nor is it regrettable that what you said about the significant increase in wages for state officials and government officials. I would like to inform my honourable fellow Member that, yes, we have been calling colleagues in district government offices, not civil servants, not government officials, but state officials. Indeed, their wages have been hijacked upwards or received a major increase compared to all other public officials exercising public authority, but for example, county government officials, who are also state officials from July this year, are not allowed to receive public officials' wages. [[14.20]] In fact, they also fell from the possibility that you promised them as a career model to receive a salary from 1 January 2018 compared to the status of state officials. You also pushed it to January 1, 2019 or God knows when or for how long, because the deadline could be pushed once, no matter how many times it could be pushed away. So, no, unfortunately, the Orbán government didn't want or could create a civil servant career model for more than one attempt. We in this House, as regards the employees of this House, have repeatedly called for substantial wage arrangements, even from the point of view that a person who cannot take care of his own household can take care of the country as a whole. That is why we have initiated, urged that first here, in our own house, let us put our order in order and let these people get what they really deserve. Let us see, fellow Members, that yes, these people are literally working day and night, doing extremely meaningful and responsible work, and I dare say that they often receive much more than one Member in this House, compared to this, a face-to-face low salary. This is why it is important, especially when the House, the Parliament and the office building are making such significant investments, there are many, many billion-dollar investments, but let's just look around about the MTESZ headquarters, and the scale that we are going to spend on building that house is getting bigger and bigger. Billions are flying, hundreds of millions are flying, but in order for those close to us, dear colleagues to finally get a raise, there was never a chance, there was no way. Now, after the many initiatives tabled by Jobbik and myself, they have finally heard this demand, and now we have this amendment before the House. Let me tell you on behalf of the coworkers, thank you very much, because something can finally happen here. However, I would like to say what are some of the amendments that we would like you to support. One is that it was already an amendment to this effect before the House not so long ago, in December 2016, practically a year ago. Yes, but that law would only have changed Kttvt. for one point as to how much the salary should be. This would then have been linked to the gross average salary of the national economy at that time, but not only to the Office of Parliament, but also to the staff of the President's Office and the Office of the Constitutional Court, because civil servants are also working there. For someone in this House to talk about hundreds of people, we're only talking about a few dozen people. The reference to these two additional agencies has already been omitted from this proposal. We would like to ask you to initiate that, given that one of the points in one paragraph concerns the paragraph in Kttv that they are included in, so beyond the Office of the President of the Parliament, the Office of Ab and the President of the Republic should amend this point in order to apply to them, but only in relation to the diversion of the salary base, in the sense that this would have been included in the original motion, which was initiated by you last year, but then voted down by you, in Hungarian: 20 percent of the gross national economy average would be their salary base. Yes, this could be extended further to the Ombudsman's office, the staff of the Ombudsman's Office, but this section is not opened in this regard, so it would be an over-expansion in this sense, but I think that this could also be settled in a further bill. Then there's the question of the language exam. I think it's Kttv. in this respect, it is extremely fair: it is on a normative basis. If you have a language exam, you get the extra salary. If you have multiple language exams, you will receive more allowances. Now, compared to this, in this proposal here, it is possible to give it under certain conditions. I think it's unworthy. There are two kinds of ideas here: let's return to Kttv. For the basis of this, be it normatively regulated, or we will also submit an amendment, which would include the possibility that, if someone needs language skills for their job, they can receive a language examination after a maximum of three languages, for whom they do not, at least one language examination must be available there. And then there's your senior advisors and advisors. We know that so far, many of our colleagues, who, on the basis of their qualifications and skills, deserve this award, will now lose this appointment by the power of the law, and they may be given the title of chief professional advisors and professional advisors later on, if. But if he doesn't get it, it is possible, in their case, that not only would there be a rise in wages, but also a considerable drop in salaries. I would like there to be a perfectly obvious reference in the law that even by chance no one can have less pay for this method. After 3rd, like what we have right now. So it's the Method. 3. After entering into force, no one can have less salary than now. Unfortunately, in this respect, such an unfair situation can be seen after the introduction of chief professional advisors and advisors' posts and the loss of previous titles. The other is that this four-month rating, as we understand it, is a bit excessive, and again gives rise to a lot of subjective, if any, unfair action. There has been one such rating once a year so far. This is December. In this connection, I would like to ask you right away, because there is a misunderstanding here whether, on the basis of the December rating, employees will receive a classification from 1 January as in the current bill before us, or if, after the entry into force of 1 January, there will be another certification procedure, as it is now the case in the law that there is now a need to make a new rating within 30 days of the entry into force, and then any ranking will be given to the staff. That's why it doesn't matter, just in terms of it, because there really is this plus 50, minus 20 percent rule, so there are hijacks of this magnitude. Yeah, I'm looking for, like, 150 percent every four months, or just 80 percent between earning pretty rough fluctuations, I think it could cause a lot of problems, because it really makes civil servants extremely vulnerable, if any. In addition, there is also the fact that if a person has a higher education degree, but does not need this qualification for the job, he will receive a secondary qualification. I think that, although this is also possible in the civil servant law and in the civil servant law, at least once in an exemplary manner we should say in this law that a person who has a higher education degree is entitled to an allowance according to his qualifications, regardless of what job he is in. It must be quite a blow for a man to be able to give someone a job that he or she would otherwise qualify for. I think it's worth considering. Allow me one more thought, and this is when the raise would be due. The Act enters into force on 1 January. There is or would be a period between 1 January and 31 December of each year, after which it is possible to proceed with the classifications and rankings. Yeah, but the Kttv. At present, it does not provide us with this order, but that from 1 March to the end of February every year. Why? It is because the system of diversions is currently the case that the average gross earnings in the national economy will appear around 20 February each year for the previous year. This is how it can be established, say, how much gross earnings were recorded in 2018, so they can hijack from 1 March. But if we want to give a raise from 1 January, then we have to go back in the years and take the average gross earnings for 2018 and so on. So this extra one-year-old or minus one-year-old look backwards over the years would be like this, and it would always be ahead of us. [[14.30]] Therefore, it would be worth once, according to our amendment, to switch in 2020 to the fact that, although they would receive a wage increase on the basis of the 2018 average as of 1 January 2020, there would be another wage arrangement in that year, which would be the 1 March wage arrangement, which would refer to the average earnings of the previous year, thus settling the situation in Kttv. that there should not be two types of classification and such time frame. I hope that, in this regard, what I have just said to you, we can have a meaningful dialogue with you. I very much hope that the amendments that we are going to submit to this House and that we have already drawn up have already been discussed in some cases, that we may be able to find a common denominator, not for our own sake, but for those workers who are working here in this House to help us do our job, I say again: making it day and night. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-28-126	Thank you very much, notary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény for two minutes, MSZP.
u2017-11-28-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Our lead speaker said that the purpose of the bill before us is to increase the salary that civil servants in the Parliament's Office can bring home. We can fully agree with this, and thanks and thanks to the employees, civil servants and colleagues working in the Office of Parliament and around the National Assembly, because, how can I put it, they can follow the amok run that Fidesz is trying to do here during the legislative exercise. So once again, thanks to the colleagues who are working in and around this House. But what I would like to point out was also mentioned by our lead speaker, this is a segment of the public service, a small part of the public service, and we cannot go without saying that the civil servant's salary has not been raised since 2009; it stands at HUF 38 650, as it was in 2009, and it has been at this level ever since. Many tens of thousands of colleagues in the country receive their salaries according to this calculation based on the civil servant's salary. By the way, the government has not helped them with anything, but has hindered them, since their salary has not even increased with inflation. This salary should be raised, we say that every year. We have already tabled amendments to this issue many times, of course the fidesz majority has always mowed it down and always rejected it. I think now would be a good time for us to help this group of workers. I would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that this HUF 38 650 civil servant salary should definitely be raised, but it has also been said that, of course, we will have a proposal for this. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-28-128	Thank you, Congressman. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. Yes, Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2017-11-28-129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to mention four or five things very briefly. One is that classification and remuneration will be established after the adoption of the law. The draft law states that classification and salary should be established within 30 days. I don't see the guarantee of one thing, we don't see it. This being the case, it should not be possible for a person to receive less salaries than before, or less welfare, than in this classification or in the setting of a salary corresponding to that classification. This guarantee must be provided in the form provided by the law. The other thing is that I would like to confirm once again, and my better fellow Member has also said so, and they also see that this four-month, four-month evaluation of performance may also be included in the category of vesting. This is not the background to balanced work. In this respect, I respectfully ask my fellow members of the Government to reconsider this legislative passage. My fellow Member Zsolt Legény generally talked about the importance of the "public service" fund, that HUF 38 650 and its change, not in excess, but in relation to other areas of the public service. I also mentioned earlier that it is a shame that, during their nearly eight-year government, a single orphan penny of salary was not raised. I would like to urge you to take concrete action in this regard, following the adoption of this law, during the few months remaining from your governance, so that people working in the public service can obtain a decent source of livelihood. It is very important, and once again, I confirm that the people who belong to each class in relation to grades, i.e. those with a higher education degree, should, as has been said, pay according to qualifications. Human resources management should be carried out that can create this condition, because this is the most effective way of carrying out the task if people who have these peculiarities are engaged in activities linked to higher education and language examinations. And my last sentence is reconfirming that they shouldn't be stuck here. It is very important that public servants and public service workers in the Parliament's Office receive this salary increase, which has been formulated in the draft law, they deserve it, but I ask you not to get stuck here, thinking on similar career models and similar salary increases for the entire public service. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-28-130	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, No further comments were received. The general debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Csaba Hende. [[Csaba Hende: Répássy to Robert!]] Excuse me, Congressman Robert Répássy. Csaba Hende is a nationalist, so I looked at him and he stood up.
u2017-11-28-131	Yes, indeed, Mr President, in fact Vice-President Hende is also a rapporteur. Dear House, I would like to respond briefly to the debate here. Firstly, I would like to thank the political groups for their support, and I promise that we will consider the amendments that have been tabled or to be tabled, and the criticisms that have been expressed here will also be considered. It is in the interests of all of us that officials and employees of the Parliament's Office can do their job at a high level, and that we should develop a suitable career model, so I would ask you again to support the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-132	Thank you very much, Congressman Répássy Róbert. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2015 CCXXII on the general rules for electronic administration and trust services. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission submitted by MEPs Gergely Gulyás and Róbert Répássy Fidesz T/18530. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy, the author of the item on the agenda. [[14.40]]
u2017-11-28-133	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that this legislative proposal, consisting of a total of two stages, will not cause much debate. The bill amends a law that we have previously adopted, the 2015 CCXXII on the general rules of electronic administration and trust services. a law which has made electronic administration universally binding on organisations where the conditions necessary to ensure e-administration are available. Obviously, it is not primarily in the interests of organisations, i.e. public administration or other organisations, but it is in the general interest of citizens to be able to deal with matters as quickly and effectively as possible. Thus, although there are no doubt technical conditions for electronic administration which must be created, it can significantly accelerate public administration and significantly accelerate all the types of cases and procedures covered by the rules of electronic administration. In addition, we are also required by EU directives, but electronic administration itself is already widespread and very extensive in both public administration and justice and in any other area of life, just to say, in the use of telecommunications services or other services. But the proposal is that there may be a situation where some public bodies are not yet able to ensure the level of electronic administration, the security that is needed to enable citizens to handle their affairs safely. This is stated in the bill that there are organisations who have prevented, without their own fault, from ensuring the conditions for e-administration. Well, we propose that the government be able to establish in a regulation the bodies providing electronic administration that cannot fulfil the conditions of the law without their own fault, so they have prevented themselves from providing the conditions for e-administration. The importance of this Regulation would be that in these cases electronic administration is not generally mandatory for these types of cases. This does not mean, of course, that this would happen permanently; this can only be a temporary situation, but only temporarily the government can define the organisations for which electronic administration is not ensured. I stress that this is not primarily in the interests of the organisations concerned, because it is in the interest of the organisations concerned to be able to ensure the conditions for electronic administration as soon as possible, but it is primarily in the interest of citizens to be able to obtain information on which organisations meet the conditions for electronic administration. Think about it: it is in no one's interest that, in addition to slow servers and overloaded electronic administration, citizens are annoyed that they cannot use these services. There is therefore a need for the government, if this situation arises, to enumerate certain organisations in this particular obstructed area of electronic administration. Dear House, It is an important rule that the government also determines the duration of the obstruction in the regulation, so obviously, as I said, it is not possible to perpetuate this situation, but rather to derogate from the law, i.e. the law on electronic administration and the general rules of trust services, as a general rule, but to establish this obstacle only temporarily. I ask with respect that you accept the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-134	Thank you very much, Congressman Répássy. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to comment on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-28-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, CCXXII of 2015 on general rules for electronic administration and trust services. By law, from 1 January of next year, the provision of electronic administration will start with a wide range of organ powers covered by the law. Natural persons shall be eligible for electronic contact with customers and entities and legal representatives shall be obliged to do so. The law sets out the bodies required to ensure electronic administration, the bodies where we can act, and some actors are obliged to act electronically. These include public administration bodies, municipalities, courts, prosecutors, notaries, public bodies, executives, the Ombudsman, the MNB and even certain service providers. You can see that there is a wide range of subject matter, and this also attracts the fact that these subjects have different options. The necessary IT conditions, programmes and so-called regulated electronic administration services for the provision of the service have been prepared by the government, but these organisations should also have the appropriate quality IT infrastructure and specialised systems to meet specific needs. Due to the different budgetary situation, the unique and specific nature of the preparation, some improvements and supplies may not be ready for the deadline. For all these reasons, the Government accepts this situation and considers it appropriate that the level of preparedness be assessed by the government and, where otherwise prevented, for a temporary period, exempts those organisations from the full introduction of electronic administration. Of course, this diverging preparedness should not give rise to the exclusion of organisations from electronic administration, from the establishment of this set of conditions, and should aim to ensure e-administration of the exempted body in cases where its systems are already ready. Of course, the exemption cannot be long-term, we want the electronic administration to be introduced and distributed as quickly as possible. That is why the government supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-136	Thank you, Secretary of State Pogács. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-28-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The National Assembly established the CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules for electronic administration and trust services in order to ensure the wide circulation of electronic administration, speeding up procedures and reducing administrative burdens, the wider electronicisation of private relations and relations between the state and its citizens, the operation of electronic administration bodies and the provision of more modern and efficient public services for the general public. Law No. 1. Under the Law on Electronic Administration, from 1 January 2018, the provision of electronic administration will start with a wide range of organ powers in the bodies covered by the Law. The conditions for electronic administration are largely available. However, there are bodies covered by the law that, apart from their own faults, have not yet reached the level that would enable citizens to manage their affairs in a balanced way in the new system. In the interest of customers, it is therefore necessary to have a government decree that clarifies to citizens which organisations are not yet able to obtain electronic administration. In these bodies, the administration remains paper-based, in an efficient, transparent and predictable way, ensuring the rights and legitimate interests of customers, ensuring a rapid closure and timeliness of procedures. [[14.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, Please support this bill in order to make it clear and clear to citizens which bodies have the usual, traditional administration and which bodies have to deal with their affairs electronically. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-138	Thank you, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Józsa.
u2017-11-28-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In other, luckier, smarter countries, electronic administration, such as Estonia, has made a strong contribution to enabling citizens to handle their affairs more quickly and more effectively, and not least with a much smaller number of state apparatuss, to manage citizens' affairs reliably. Hungary is largely not one of these lucky countries due to the insufficient preparatory work of the government, so this proposal is a living proof that electronic administration in Hungary has failed before it could have been introduced in general. This proposal concerns the fact that the Government will then issue a regulation on the organisations which cannot fulfil the conditions laid down in the e-Accessory Act, except for their own failure. Of course it's out of its own fault that you don't get the money, you don't get the time, you don't get the means, you don't get the opportunity to prepare for it. So now with a motion from its representatives, the faction leader and the present Répássy, with two s, y, representatives [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] I want you to submit the less noble proposal that things didn't work out the way they were supposed to. Therefore, such a serecsen wash is absolute that before the deadline, as from 1 January 2018, this electronic administration system should be in place, something else is being done. I have to tell you, where they've made it mandatory, it doesn't work either. So the clerks are begging someone to put in the paperwork that they've sent him by electronic means, but he can't unlucky figure it out, because either his computer isn't fit for it, or he hasn't learned these things yet. So I am very sorry that the government has been clumsy, sabotaged, ruined this preparation process, because, of course, it can be helped that someone who doesn't learn to run or learn to walk on the hand will be excused from the gymnastics, and then they won't be spoiled by the inadequacy of the certificate, however, this ticket is unfortunately insufficient. According to the law in force, a number of organisations - from public administration bodies to public authorities - are obliged to carry out electronic administration under the rules laid down from 1 January 2018 and may be entrusted with public service tasks. This has, among other things, been contested at the time of the negotiation of the current law, since the administrative and other burdens that the new electronic system would impose on them were already seriously questionable with regard to the legal representatives of business organisations and customers. There was no response, no impact assessment, no assessment of the situation, the result is here. The lack of adequate preparation in terms of time and other conditions was one of the significant reasons why the MSZP rejected this bill at the time. Not because we do not believe in progress and modernisation, we believe it is very necessary to modernise administration, because the MSZP is a modernisation party, and I would like my fellow Members to explain this further, and it is therefore painful for us to see this practice, which is an unfortunate failure to appear. Our other significant point was that there were far more provisions in the bill at that time than those which should have been adopted as a fundamental rule, so not with such a simple 50 percent law; if they had done so, then perhaps attention would have been more focused on this otherwise extremely important development area. The reasons for the proposal indicate that the regulated and central electronic administration services required to ensure administration are ready. Unfortunately, this is simply not the case, so it doesn't correspond to the reality you wrote. If this claim were in line with the facts, then how could it be that some of them, the law 2. (Article 1) should the Government decree specify that, apart from their own faults, they have not been able to provide the necessary physical and personal conditions for the two budget years at their disposal? They've wasted two years, and now they're bringing a paper saying, "Yeah, well, those who couldn't do it don't have to do it, we're absolving them." There are only two possible answers to this problem. One: either the result of an inadequate attitude on the part of the organisations to the task is this failure, which you now reward with acquittal, so they reward those who have failed to do their job, so this is one of the things that they have wronged. But there is another problem, which is the government's problem, that the government has not provided them with the resources necessary for the task, or the necessary conditions to meet the required requirements, which the government has imposed on these organisations. So a very painful confession is this proposal. So there's no way we can talk about the lack of self-imposition, because that's where the government is at fault, so that's what's wrong. In any event, the government is responsible for the delay in eliminating electronic administration, or for failing to carry out the necessary checks, or for not providing the necessary resources and other conditions. The proposed amendment, which has just been tabled, has also chosen an inappropriate solution from a legal point of view by the fact that the failure to provide services for so-called reasons other than self-abuse has been addressed in Article 27. In Section 2 of this Article, you classify it as a category that did not exist. Since there was no electronic administration service, such as a blackout, a malfunction, which is referred to, there is no such thing. So what doesn't work can't be malfunctioning, can't be off-line because it never worked. So this wording is revealing and inappropriate, so it's clumsiness on an incompetent legal device. The failure to start the service is neither a breakdown nor a malfunction, since there is nothing that could have been disturbed, it is simply not the start of the service, it is not the provision of the service. It is misleading to insert or insert paragraph 5 because the fact that a customer subject to electronic administration is not subject to an obligation to conduct an electronic procedure already provides for Article 9 of the Act. Paragraph 4 also applies. [[15.00]] Should the Government decree designate entities obliged to ensure electronic administration that they could not, without their own fault, provide the necessary physical and personnel conditions during the two budget years at their disposal? They've wasted two years, and now they're bringing a paper saying, "Yeah, well, those who couldn't do it don't have to do it, we're absolving them." There are only two possible answers to this problem. One: either the result of an inadequate attitude on the part of the organisations to the task is this failure, which you now reward with acquittal, so they reward those who have failed to do their job, so this is one of the things that they have wronged. But there is another problem, which is the government's problem, that the government has not provided them with the resources necessary for the task, or the necessary conditions to meet the required requirements, which the government has imposed on these organisations. So a very painful confession is this proposal. So there's no way we can talk about the lack of self-imposition, because that's where the government is at fault, so that's what's wrong. In any event, the government is responsible for the delay in eliminating electronic administration, or for failing to carry out the necessary checks, or for not providing the necessary resources and other conditions. The proposed amendment, which has just been tabled, has also chosen an inappropriate solution from a legal point of view by the fact that the failure to provide services for so-called reasons other than self-abuse has been addressed in Article 27. In Section 2 of this Article, you classify it as a category that did not exist. Since there was no electronic administration service, such as a blackout, a malfunction, which is referred to, there is no such thing. So what doesn't work can't be malfunctioning, can't be off-line because it never worked. So this wording is revealing and inappropriate, so it's clumsiness on an incompetent legal device. The failure to start the service is neither a breakdown nor a malfunction, since there is nothing that could have been disturbed, it is simply not the start of the service, it is not the provision of the service. It is misleading to insert or insert paragraph 5 because the fact that a customer subject to electronic administration is not subject to an obligation to conduct an electronic procedure already provides for Article 9 of the Act. Paragraph 4 also applies. 3 p.m. So even they themselves are lost in this motion, it seems that they are placing responsibility on two unfortunate, unsuspecting Members, Mr Gulyás and Mr Répássy, who do not know what they have submitted, what they have written. [[Dr. Répássy Robert enters the Chamber.]] I would like to commend Mr Répássy for not knowing what he has submitted, because from a legal point of view, two passages are perfectly contradictory. You shouldn't leave that in a proposal. It is stated that if the electronic administration service required for the electronic handling of a particular case, the regulated electronic administration service or other related service is temporarily or permanently unavailable. Of course it's not available when it's not. So to list this as an independent reason is rather acute, it fits in the same line as I've already said that there are serious delays, serious omissions, and they're trying to cover it up with this attempt to exonerate it. At the same time, both this bill and its justification are deeply silent about the fact that, with this amendment, citizens, their representatives and businesses are being deprived of the right of electronic administration which the law would have finally granted. So that law adopted two years ago finally made the right to electronic administration a subjective right. Now, this is what you're going to say, and it's going to be up to the individual organizations and the government to decide where to deal electronically, where to stay, where to stay with the Faek. It's not because we're in the mood to eat right now, because you'd actually like to cry when you see a good initiative, an administration-modernization opportunity, in such a misguided state after two whole years. The government should exercise self-criticism in this situation. I'm not saying to flush you down the toilet, but at least to inflate yourself to come up to the surface of the water and do something, not just say that you failed. Instead of the text of the non-abuse termination of service, the irresponsible behaviour of the government and the inadequate assessment and understanding of tasks, this would be the correct presentation text. I understand that the MEPs have not dared to take up this wording more in line with the facts, even though we might have come closer to achieving the objective. However, in this regulation, for which a licence is now granted, for which the proposal empowers the government, the real reason for non-service should always be indicated in the list of individual bodies. Now, that is a very noble intention, so here I must commend the two Members that, as a result, there may be something that has not been launched under the original law, a situational assessment that is a prerequisite for the start of meaningful work. If we don't know where the conditions are, what development, asset acquisition, training are needed, then we can't succeed, as we can see that we have failed. Unlike the justification given in the general justification, the regulated and central electronic administration services required to ensure e-administration are unfortunately not ready, and it may not really be the fault of the individual bodies providing electronic administration, it is also due to the failure of the government and to the inability of the head of the organisation responsible for providing the service. So, fellow Members, I strongly suggest that, if you want results, look to yourselves and see why what has not been successful has failed, and why, in order to ensure the subject-matter of the law, everyone should have the right to improve electronic administration and the security and speed associated with it, and the effectiveness of government work, please take meaningful steps; not to exonerate themselves, but to set up tools for the service of this matter, the building of electronic administration, which, after two years, will not confirm failure, but will result in a real result. I wish you good luck with that. This presentation, unfortunately, is a sad picture of the situation, which shows that this has failed in the last two years. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-11-28-140	Thank you, Congressman István Józsa. The opinion of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party is presented by Mr Imre Vejkey.
u2017-11-28-141	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules for electronic administration and trust services adopted by the Parliament in 2015. Act No. 5 of 1 January 2018 states that the provision of electronic administration in Hungary will start in general as of 1 January 2018. Ladies and Gentlemen, This means that natural persons will be entitled to customers and entities and legal representatives will be obliged to communicate electronically. Although the necessary regulated and central electronic administration services are ready to ensure e-administration, it cannot be guaranteed at the moment that the accession of individual bodies to these services will reach the level that they will be able to ensure a smooth electronic handling of cases. Ladies and Gentlemen, In view of all of this, organs which are not prepared to ensure the conditions are published in the Government Decree, except for their own failure. For these bodies, electronic contact will not yet be possible, and these bodies will continue to be able to be contacted through traditional contacts. Ladies and Gentlemen, The proposal therefore ensures that, in order to protect you, the government can adopt a regulation on bodies which are not able to fulfil the conditions of electronic administration without their own faults. According to the provision, there is no possibility of contact with these bodies, except in cases where they are able to do so. In the event of such an obstacle, the customer obliged to communicate electronically will be considered as a non-e-relationship client. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary faction supports the bill; please support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-142	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. I give the floor to Csaba Gyure, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-28-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Fellow Members! We have had such legislative proposals before us, where electronic administration was involved, and this was the subject of it. I have already said that Hungary and Europe and the whole world are at a huge step now, which is as big a step as it might have been when Gutenberg invented the printing of the book, and they switched to printing from the previous copying system, hand-written copying. We are still at about the same scale as we are at a certain step in switching from the printed, written variation to the electronic system. [[15.10]] Obviously, when we move to this system, there can be many flaws, and it was obvious, and we all knew that there would be. Obviously, those of us who have received the pleasures of electronic administration even as practicing lawyers, so to speak, are aware of what this may mean. What is the purpose when we switch to this system? Clearly, the aim is to make it faster, more efficient, and to improve the system. And what do we experience? That's not how it usually works. The system will usually be slower, more case files will be created, more administrators will be needed, the administrator will take more time to deal with this, and the administrators will be constantly hindered by electronic administration in their work. Can we just say, "Let's just leave it alone"? Obviously not, obviously we need it. Obviously, we need to move on to this system, but obviously we need to move on to this system with reason when the system is built, when the right conditions exist, when the administrators have received the appropriate education to apply it. It was already mentioned when we talked about the transition to the ASP system with regard to municipalities. The Ministry praised how good this ASP system is, how much help it gives to municipalities; how much easier it will be for the municipalities to do financial reports, how much easier it will be to do their books, to do the announcements; how much it will speed up, virtually no deadline can be missed with the ASP system. It will be electronic accounting, not manual accounting, how much better this system will be. Yes, that is what we have heard from the Ministry, and when we asked the municipalities that have already been involved in this ASP system on an experimental basis, we have heard in every place that the administrator has to stay overnight because the system simply cannot be used; we do not yet have the conditions to manage the administration properly; everything is much more difficult, so the deadlines cannot be met with this system. So the exact opposite of what was set as a goal was actually achieved when this system was introduced experimentally. And, well, here, in the Law on Electronic Administration, we see the same thing when this draft legislation came before us, because we see that the government sees it - although not with government or ministerial submission, but with a presentation from its representatives - that they cannot do it on time either. It's not a problem. It's not a problem. Then why do they insist on it? Obviously, it must be insisted, because the transition to the electronic system, when it is already operational, will, after all, really help people a lot. If you look at the customer gate service, if you look at whether you can submit our personal income tax return by electronic means with a few minutes of control - it has often taken days, but it has certainly taken long hours to do so - so we see that if you are well prepared for something, the electronic system is working well, there are no delays, the program works well, the administrator runs the system well, then this can help you very much. The problem here is that this system, which has been formulated to enter into force on 1 January 2018 and this should be applied, is now, it seems, that it will not work, but this electronic system will not be able to stand up. So what has been formulated in the law is what the objectives are, the reduction of administrative burdens, this will not be achieved immediately; the acceleration of procedures will not be possible; the improvement of quality administration will not be achieved; the improvement of the capacity of public authorities will not be achieved; the efficiency of administration will not be improved. So these are the principles that could not be accelerated. And there is a principle that we adopted earlier, the 2015 CCXXII. Act No. 3 §2 of the Act states that in Hungary, the customer has the right to conduct the cases electronically, i.e. the right of electronic administration. So if we allow the government to make a government decree, to remove certain cases, to remove certain areas of administration from it, then, in fact, the law's fundamental right is reduced, to the detriment of citizens, to take it away, and to give it practically to a government decree, which is regulated by a very important law at the level of principle. So I think that this kind of amendment proposal somehow does not work out at legislative level. I understand that it is not ready right now, and you probably don't even know when the system will be ready at such a level that the whole country will be flogged and functioning well, because if that were the case, then it would simply be possible to resolve the fact that it would not be mandatory to introduce a law, but it will be only on 1 January 2020 - I'll tell you something - and by then the system will be up and running and it will be possible to solve it all over the country. However, the fact that we are throwing away a principle of law and saying that this should be regulated by a government decree, I say that this is not only inappropriate, but I think that this is not eligible in this form. While this is to be introduced when it is already working well, it is clearly eligible, so there is an important contradiction here. I think this case should have been resolved differently at the moment. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-28-144	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy for two minutes, MSZP.
u2017-11-28-145	Thank you very much. I asked for a brief thought, Mr President. Dear House, My colleague Józsa explained the position of the MSZP fact in detail, but if we are talking about modernisation, it is perhaps worth noting that the essence of this electronic administration is that citizens can handle their affairs safely, quickly, cheaply and simply. In comparison, none of these are met, as the Member has said, and many people have referred to this in the speech, not only would we move forward, but we are going back one more step. I think it is not certain that the good solution for the government is that if there is an obstacle to electronic administration, it will give itself exemptions, but perhaps it is worth keeping the same goal and making more effort to effectively implement this administration. Not so long ago, the Secretary of State, András Tállai, gave a long talk about what a fantastic electronic administration there is in the tax office, and this may make it a joy to pay taxes in Hungary. Perhaps on this issue we could spend a little bit more money on this, so that these bumps can be eliminated, not stepped back, and really go back to the square grid book, because it certainly doesn't point to the future. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-28-146	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr for a proper speech.
u2017-11-28-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Obviously, the government is responsible for the lack of delay, and for the unpreparedness of the process. At the moment, within the framework of a motion by its own representatives, what they are doing is done calmly, with almost no form of coordination, i.e. without a multitude of impact assessments. I could say that what they're doing is frivolous. My fellow Member, Mr Józsa, was also a keynote speaker about the fact that some of the debtors, a significant part of them, could not guarantee the conditions for electronic administration. How, then, do you take seriously all that is being formulated within the framework of the bill? If a significant part of the debtors themselves cannot provide the conditions for electronic administration, how does this system work? Can this system even work? I don't want to get out of this bill, but we can see, say, how the electronic administration through the healthcare system works and much more. [[15.20]] I think that, looking back about two years, it would now be worthwhile for the government to take appropriate, necessary, meaningful steps so that what they have been talking about for so long can actually work and benefit people. A little more should be done for this and not what is being done in this period. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-11-28-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. The next speaker is Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP.
u2017-11-28-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us would be basically about the government defining in a regulation the bodies providing electronic administration that cannot fulfil the conditions laid down in the Law on Electronic Administration without their own fault. In other words, you created a law not so long ago in relation to electronic administration, but, let us be honest, that electronic administration does not work, it works poorly, it works very problematicly, but you do not see their error, but now another law tells you that they will grant exemptions and exemptions to bodies that are unable to provide electronic administration to customers and citizens. Well, it's pretty self-inflicted, but the point for us is, of course, not that you're shooting self-goal, but that, in the end, it's the citizens who are suffering. Then, of course, you always do the winning reports, always say that it works very well, how good it is, Hungary is no longer the XXI., but the XXIII. He's going to be an outstanding pioneer of the century, because it's really, really great, and then there's electronic handling everywhere. Only the practice, the great Hungarian reality, shows that Hungary is absolutely not ready for this, or there are more problems and problems in the process. If you'll allow me, let me draw another parallel. It is clear that electronic administration, e-administration, is a failure, to put it nicely, that in the last few days you have managed to introduce an e-precept-like system in the field of health, which was once again a total collapse, and we could say that it is a complete failure. In the first days, they didn't know either, but not just doctors and patients, but other health professionals didn't know where their heads were and what was going on. So, it looks like the electronic administration system and the electronic recipe system are putting on pretty serious tasks for both public administration and legislation, because we can see that this thing is bleeding from a thousand wounds. We understand what you're trying to bring in with this bill: in fact, what you've made a rule about, in exceptional cases, you want to allow why you don't have to keep those laws. Well, it's kind of like Monty Python now, this legislative process. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2017-11-28-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr for two minutes, Congressman.
u2017-11-28-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The terrible thing about this story is that they can't normally put together even a bill, but they always build things in their process. They impose conditions which they can only partially ensure, and I add, there is also a shortage of government resources. The consequence of this is obviously that the conditions cannot be met or that the conditions cannot be satisfied. The problem is that when they realize that something has been screwed up, the next step is to try to put the story into place with new corrections. This can be revealed not only in connection with this draft law, but also in many cases in recent years within the walls of Parliament. How long are they gonna do this? How long are they gonna keep this up? How long do you think that legislation can be done seriously in a way that doesn't even have to be fulfilled in terms of the conditions that you set yourself? How many times do you intend to repeat the process of coming back to the House with a bill, due to the lack of compliance with the conditions that you have set? As I said, not only with this draft law, but also with regard to the issue of public procurement, how many times have they brought back to the walls of this House the draft laws filled with errors, which were accepted earlier, that amendments should be made again. That's what they're doing right now. It's unacceptable to do this unprepared thing you're doing. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-11-28-152	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman István Szávay, notary, for two minutes.
u2017-11-28-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am completely amazed to hear this whole debate, my fellow members of the Government. You're hopelessly on XX. This has been stated here on several occasions with my fellow Members, and my fellow Member, Gergely Farkas, has been holding a series after a few weeks of agendas on what innovations would be needed in order to finally be able to swing through the 21st century. It's a century. It hasn't been politically successful yet, and that's something to wait for the elections, but that's not what I want to talk about right now. So I find this quite amazing, and many of my fellow Members have already commented on this. We are trying to make some progress in life, moving forward with age, but instead of calling those leaders to account or replacing them, or even examining why we have failed to comply with the law in this regard, which sets out a clear deadline and a clear task for certain public authorities to switch to electronic administration, they are even proud - I am listening here to our fellow Member Vas Imre's presentation - to give us the opportunity to do so if one does not succeed without their own fault. Congressman Vas, Secretary of State, what do you mean, except for your own fault? There was a law that requires the management of certain institutions or bodies to perform tasks and obligations. What do you mean, besides his own fault? Tell me specifically which organ, which leader and which tasks are to be performed or not carried out. There's no such thing as a mistake! There is a law about the need to carry out certain tasks. Now we're gonna pretend we're sitting on a horse backwards, that someone has a right to paperwork. A number of terrifying examples could also be given from the civil sector to the different administrations of the state, how what we now in principle call electronic administration actually works. Let me give you an example: I don't have any more time. It's absolutely amazing when they've done the EPER system, which concerns the application of civil society organisations. It works by uploading all the paper into an electronic system, then printing, signing and mailing a paper at the end. This is how the electronic administration works for civil society organisations. This is a joke, fellow Members. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-28-154	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] No further comments were received. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I ask the rapporteur whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes.]] I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy.
u2017-11-28-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I did not think that this short bill produced such intense emotions in opposition representatives, although, in silence, some comments, I had the impression that you had two major problems: one is that we had to introduce electronic administration and the other is to make exceptions to mandatory electronic administration. So it's probably not the bill they're dealing with, it's the government, it's coming out of their comments. I ask you to consider the support of the bill, because either for public bodies or for any other service providers that are obligated to do so but cannot comply with it, they cannot comply with it by the deadline, or for citizens who wish to deal with matters electronically, it is not a good situation of uncertainty. It is much better now that, in the case of some public bodies or some other bodies, the government finds that it is temporarily not prepared for electronic administration. [[15.30]] Of course, a law can be called to account for its failure to comply, and it is justified. So it's obvious that you're accountable to every law. The question is, what if, for technical, technical, IT or even budgetary reasons, an organisation could not prepare itself for electronic administration. Then what's more appropriate? If we permanently remove this obligation from this organisation, or if the government finds that it is temporarily unable to guarantee electronic administration with sufficient security. Because we have seen that there is a formal possibility of electronic administration, but it is not working, there are many problems with it, so even outside the test facility there are many obstacles. I therefore believe that it is more in the interest of the public to deal with matters or in the interests of the public if, in the case of certain organisations, the government admits or states that that organisation cannot provide electronic administration. I think this law is fair, this law is designed to make as many cases as possible electronically, and I am sure that in a few years' time, it will not be necessary to establish with a public body that it cannot provide the service, because everyone will switch to electronic administration. But as long as he can turn away, we cannot burden the administrators or the citizens with an uncertain situation. This law gives the government the opportunity to temporarily determine that an organisation cannot operate electronic administration. Dear House, I ask you to consider the bill and support it with your votes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-28-156	Thank you, Congressman Répássy Róbert. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2007 LXXIV on the rules for broadcasting and digital transition. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation by Fidesz MEPs János Halász and Gergely Gulyás T/1856. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr János Halász, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2017-11-28-157	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, LXXIV of 2007 on the rules for broadcasting and digital transition. Our proposed legislative amendment to the Act proposes a simpler, more flexible, market entry procedure for local televisions currently operating. I think it is important to emphasise that this is only in the event that there is no further call for applications for the possibility of operating a digital broadcast in a given area of reception. In the event that additional applications other than those with temporary digital broadcasting rights are received in respect of the possibility of the operation of a digital broadcasting service provider, a tendering procedure may be applied for under the general rules for the operation of the broadcasting service provider. In order to avoid any misunderstanding, it is necessary, first of all, to clarify that the digital switch-over completed in Hungary by the end of 2013 concerned the national digital terrestrial broadcasting platform. The present proposal should not be confused with this, since this proposal, as I have already mentioned, proposes an facilitation for local televisions. To understand our intentions, we need to be aware of the current situation of the local television market in Hungary. Both in Hungary and in Europe, the 470-790 megahertz frequency band is used for terrestrial digital television broadcasting. Thus, local televisions currently operating in Hungary also carry out broadcasting activities in this frequency band. By the way, we can talk here about 38 free-access digital broadcasts operated by 37 local television stations. These local televisions are special players in the domestic media market in terms of their actual activity. On the one hand, the exclusive use of spectrum allowing the provision of analogue broadcasting may continue during the period laid down in the temporary public service contracts after the digital changeover. On the other hand, local televisions, among the television media services, have been entitled to continuous media services for the longest time. Each of the local televisions is currently also a broadcasting tax operator. Thus, most of them have operational experience at the same time as media services. Given the causes and effects of the proposed amendment, the activity of local televisions also plays a specific and social and very important role in the lives of local communities. From a market point of view, there is no significant investor activity in a given buy-in area as it approaches the target date of the digital switch-over of 5 September 2020 which would show an increase in competition in the given buy-in region in terms of obtaining individual digital operation opportunities. Therefore, it is not noticeable, it is unlikely that there will be another candidate, in the vast majority of cases this is true. This is why it is worth thinking about. From a frequency management point of view, we still need to talk about the fact that, as the European Union has decided, the 700 megahertz frequency band will be used for mobile purposes, and therefore the frequency set, which is now available for these televisions, will be radically reduced. In this narrower resource environment, full compliance with current local television frequency needs cannot be guaranteed. In view of this, it is clear that it is appropriate for media service providers currently operating with temporary digital broadcasting rights to provide local televisions with a simpler, more flexible, cost-effective procedure instead of a rather time-consuming and complex tender mechanism and reflecting real market conditions and spectrum management options. This could be a market entry, quasi-market retention procedure. Of course, only if there is no new application in the given area of reception. This is what our proposal therefore aims to do. I would ask this House to discuss the matter, and I would ask my fellow Members to support our proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-28-158	Thank you, Congressman János Halász. State Secretary Ákos Kara wishes to speak on behalf of the government. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-28-159	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear tableds, Fellow Members! The present and the future belong to digitalization. This process affects everyone. With a number of decisions of the government, Hungary will contribute to winning digitalisation so that it can be the winner of digitalisation. For example, by the end of 2018, as we agreed, we will make the super-fast internet available to all households that require it, and will also help families, people and businesses to thrive in this area with targeted support. Digitalisation does not leave the area of the media, nor does it leave the area of television intact. National programme developers switched to digital broadcasting as early as 31 October 2014. This has increased both the number of television programmes that are free of charge at national level and the quality of reception has improved by magnitude, thanks to new technologies. However, local and district broadcasters have not yet completed this process, and they will have to switch to this technology by 5 September 2020. Mr Fisherman and Mr Gulyás Group Leader's initiative relates to this ongoing transformation. Although the legislative proposal they have subscribed and submitted does not affect the 2020 deadline, it can speed up the transition process for local television. This bill allows the present broadcasters to obtain it by means of a simple application procedure instead of a lengthy tendering process. digital frequencies meeting the requirements of the century. [[15.40]] The bill thus facilitates the situation of local service providers, reduces their burden and ensures that local residents have access to local television programmes in an appropriate capacity and manner. The bill thus contributes to maintaining and developing local television and its cultural and community-creating values in the modern world of digitalisation. These are important goals for all of us, which is why the government supports the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, It should also be noted that the digital transition in local television is also indirectly conducive to the development of mobile internet. Some of the frequency ranges currently used by local televisions are released. These frequencies will also play a key role in the future development of broadband mobile networks and could be an important step in the development of the 5 G wireless network in Hungary. We will soon use tools that will operate on this platform, so we need broadband technology to serve this. The proposal therefore allows these frequencies to be released as soon as possible to broadband developments, by simplifying and accelerating the digital transition, contributing to Hungary's continuing to be a high-quality mobile internet access country at European level. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill that we are discussing is a technical amendment, but I believe that it will have a significant impact on local television by making it easier to switch to digital technology with a simpler procedure, thus allowing local television programmes to be viewed by local residents in a quality and manner that is appropriate to the quality of their age. The proposal therefore also indirectly contributes to the development of the broadband mobile network. Thank you very much for your attention. The government supports the bill submitted. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-160	Thank you, Secretary of State, Ákos Kara. Dear Parliament, Two political groups have indicated that lead speakers will present the group's position. First, I give the floor to Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP group. You have the floor.
u2017-11-28-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, The bill that lies before us was originally not in the government's legislative program. This is also very interesting, because, by the way, this is a procedure arising from a decision by the European Union that you probably knew, my fellow Members and the Government, that it will come before us, and it is of the utmost interest that it was finally tabled as a motion for its own representatives, because I think that this is a legislative amendment that the government should have made, as it suspected that this should be brought before us. What the legislative proposal is about is more than one thing at a time. Instead of digital terrestrial broadcasting, wireless broadband networks would operate in 700 megahertz bands from 2020 as decided by the European Union. This will be available to mobile companies on the basis of the sales process by then. The point of the proposal is that from now on small local televisions who have applied for frequencies and have tried to ensure that they can continue to provide local news, local broadcasts and local services to the public, so that they can provide the most important information to local levels, so that, if no one goes against them, they do not have to submit a tender, but can go through this process without competition. The only question we have is why, over the last three years, the NMHH has only issued temporary frequency permits. I mean, it's coming out right now that most of you have until 2020. You have a bad feeling when you've watched the life situation of the local radios in the past, when Andy Vajna's company, Radio 1, has put their hands on the local radios, and has created an opportunity for itself to take over broadcasting. We very much hope that it is not that the government did not want to name the re-enactment of the new media sector and media area to Andy Vajna, and therefore gave some Members the opportunity to take it into their name. After all, now that we see who the candidates for the individual district are on Fidesz's side, and slowly, I suppose, the list will be set up, I suppose, you'll have to fight to put as many members on the table as possible. I suppose there are fights going on for individual Members' motions, so... my fellow Member, don't point fingers, because they say that people who point fingers get addicted to stealing. But we're not surprised by that, are we? From now on, I can say, fellow Members, that we have little fears, because we have seen what they have done in this area at the radio station. They gave permission and opportunity to receive local radios in order to be even news, to have equal opinions, and not to be able to broadcast their own broadcasts to local radios. And it was also possible that if Andy Vajna's company could not possibly take over the frequency of the local radio, then in 20 of the 24 hours, radio 1 could broadcast and only have to broadcast local news or local broadcasts for 4 hours, and the 4 hours could be, say, 8:00 to midnight, when few people are listening to local radios. From now on, we have serious fears about this amendment as well. I hope you can disprove it, I hope you can reassure me that this is not the first step that has already been prepared, that for now only temporary permissions have been issued in the past, and it is not about a re-enactment to a friendly media service provider who will then forward an opinion to everyone. I would ask Mr Secretary of State or my fellow Member who, I hope, has read the entire motion that I have tabled, to tell me what his purpose was, what he intends to do, and how he will prevent local small TVs from operating independently and to the satisfaction of local people. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-28-162	Thank you, Congresswoman Anita Heringes. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-28-163	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, We have a bill that looks like a very good bill, but we do have fears about it. The fact is that in 2013 the previous digital switch-over regime was completed and the possibility for local televisions to provide analogue services ceased. Then, in order to avoid any major disruption, a temporary operating licence has been issued, a temporary broadcasting licence, and these local televisions operate on the basis of it. A total of 37 service providers operate in the country with this temporary licence. There's nothing wrong with that, but it's obviously a temporary one, and you'll have to switch to the final system at some point. To this end, this legislation has been adopted to simplify the transition of these broadcasting companies and the final status of their temporary contracts. In what way is this possible? The method is that they are advertised, these broadcasting rights and, if there is no other candidate, only the local broadcasters, they enter into a contract with him under a 60-day procedure. If, on the other hand, there is another candidate, then the tender must be put in place and the complex system required by the legislation should be carried out. This is really nice and good, because it accelerates the procedure and makes the procedure simpler. The tender is much simpler and would not give rise to abuse in theory, because if someone else is thinking that in that area, in that city, he wants to deal with digital broadcasting at local or regional level, he also has the opportunity, because when this is announced, he can enter it and transform it into an open tender system, and he can join this tender system. How do I advertise that I want to give this opportunity, this opportunity, regional or local opportunity? It shall be published in such a way as to be published on the billboard, to be published in a national newspaper or to be published in the field of broadcasting in the local newspaper. [[15.50]] So theoretically we say that there is a three-way system, the local billboard, the national newspaper and the local journal, in which it should be published, so that anyone can be informed, has 30 days to do so, and within that time he can submit it. This is a limitation period, but there is no problem with the limitation period, since legal certainty is a fundamental interest, and therefore it cannot be that, in years' time, someone's broadcasting rights will be attacked in that area, and there will be years of litigation. But the system is clear. What is it that I see the error or the opportunity? My fellow Member who spoke before me also said that he had some fears, because we all see and have the experience that Fidesz-KDNP and the economic interest group around him are essentially serving party interests, trying to take over the media in Hungary. In practice, you are trying to implement a single-party media in our country, the essence of which is that this media does not tolerate any other opinion. [[György Szilágyi: That's right!]] Last time there was a serious debate in the Legislative Committee when Gergely Gulyás was president of the Group. There he said that the opposition should not complain about it, because just those TV shows, those newspapers, those electronic media that are the most read, are the ones that are giving an opinion on the opposition side. At the time, I think I was just speaking with my colleague György Szilágyi about why this is happening. Because in these media, even reality can be seen from time to time, and obviously one would rather read the truth than keep lying. So when we are talking about media, media services and digital broadcasting, obviously the opposition is right to assume, I think that you, too, because you are trying to put your hands on the media at all levels, want to prevent any form of opposition opinion. That's what we've seen in the poster law, but anywhere, as the opposition media has been mastered, as you put your hands on the county newspapers, or the economic interest groups behind you. We can see that the county newspapers are practically illegible, as Fidesz-KDNP's party propaganda is often broadcast on all levels by newspapers, television, radio and everything. That's where we are now. Not that this has not been achieved so far, in many cases also at the level of local media, in many cases your hands are already down to that, but the fear is that we will be in this situation even more. I'm not saying there's gonna be a competitor who's gonna apply for these. I'm not sure there will be, but there might be. And unfortunately, you have bad experiences. What bad experiences do I have in mind? After the period of the change of regime, many laws, in order to be transparent and transparent, required that this be published, say, in the county daily or in a national newspaper. On page 13, when 28 seedlings have already been advertised twice in an inch area, no one has considered that in 29th place they have two microbes on two centimeters. This can also be done, it can be put in the regional and regional newspaper, it can be put in the national paper as well, but then probably no one will ever read it, they won't notice, they won't be looking at it. Now you're saying that, of course, I'm assuming bad faith about you or the future broadcasters who want to get this. Yes, unfortunately, bad faith is assumed because it is practically our experience. When people have to cancel a county newspaper because they don't want to read the Fidesz-KDNP party propaganda, but they want the local news, we want to keep it with local broadcasters. Yeah, you guys aren't gonna take away the possibility of getting the broadcasters back in the hands we'd like to avoid. We want the media to be diverse in Hungary, we want opposition voices to be heard in the media, there are different opinions. We're not in favor of the one-party system like you. We do not want only one opinion to be drafted in a country, but those opinions to be colourful, to be different, to be able to conflict our opinions, to give different impulses to citizens, and to be able to decide on what they want. You don't tell me what the citizens want, you tell them yourself. However, this requires a wide range of media. However, I feel that this law will not necessarily provide us with this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-28-164	Thank you, Congressman Csaba Gyure. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. State Secretary Ákos Kara has applied for an extraordinary speech. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2017-11-28-165	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, For the manyth time, we find in Parliament that Jobbik and the left take a common position on a matter [[Tibor Bana: Is that so wrong?]] , we've been able to put ourselves on a common platform. That is the fact that I wanted to tell you over the past few minutes, and that the professional basis for this obviously does not exist. I'll refer to that in a moment. We are talking about a political community, a political common position. If we look at the technical part of the legislation, and if you had read the proposal, you could clearly see that the amendment makes it clear that local terrestrial televisions, which have so far been entitled, can benefit from this possibility. The amendment constitutes a simpler procedure for 34 terrestrial televisions currently operating if no other needs arise during the 30-day notice period. If there is another demand, the application must be conducted. This is the professional response to your suggestions, and the completely unnecessary political opinions and resolutions rounded up to this, I think, are part of the political search for a position in the upcoming elections. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-28-166	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2017-11-28-167	Thank you very much. Mr President, I don't understand exactly what you're talking about, Mr. Secretary. What's happened in the media over the last eight years, I think it proves exactly the suspicion the opposition is talking about. You stole the national media first with the media law, the purchase, the financial and resource disablement of the opposition media, and then you started to eat the country papers, and then the rural radios came, and now the rural televisions are coming. What are you saying, Secretary of State, that the opposition is paranoid? ! If that hadn't happened in the last eight years, you could say that. However, at the moment, I think we need to take this issue with greater modesty, because it is quite clear that they are now preparing how to steal these rural televisions either on a tender or without a tender, so that they can broadcast fidesz propaganda to people there as well. [[John the Fisherman shaking his head:]] Congressman Fisherman smiles at it, but you have a lot of practice. I don't know, maybe in 2006, when real estate was distributed to the CSO subcommittee, you were a great master in this type of competition. Of course, when you re-submit an amendment, you get an emergency bell ringing in your head that you might not want to use the same pattern as the one used in the real estate distribution. It was just one of your amendments on how to push civilians out of the decision-making process. [[János Halász: What are you talking about?]] After that, it is natural for an opposition representative to think that they want to steal these frequencies again and put their hands on rural organs, television organs, which may still be filled with local news. In this proposal, please, it says that the local content is not specified for 20 hours out of 24 hours. This is the same as when MTI is free to upload different cards. The same is happening now: it is necessary to provide its own content in four hours and to give central government propaganda in 20 hours. And maybe the four hours last from 0:00 a.m. to 4:00 a.m. Well, don't make us look like idiots. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-28-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Csaba Gyüre, Jobbik, in two minutes.
u2017-11-28-169	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I was also made to speak by Secretary of State, Ákos Kara, because he accuses us of the fact that, as I described, the opposition is on a common platform, the MSZP and Jobbik have a political community. I do not think that this would mean a political platform and community because we share the same opinion, because our practical experience is that this has been achieved in the media, which I said in my previous speech; the loss of media diversity, freedom of the press, freedom of expression in Hungary, and indeed this is a problem. [[16.00]] And if we speak up for this, it does not mean that we are on a platform, but that we are thinking about it in the same way, that we see the problems that you do not see, or that you do not want to be seen, or that you really want to cover up those problems so that people do not see them. We will slowly not be at the level of the Kádár system, but at the level of the Rákosi system, they will try to introduce about it, so they will try not to have freedom of expression in Hungary, no freedom of expression in Hungary, no diversity of the media, no different opinions. This does not mean that we are on a platform, we see it the same way, we have the same fears on this issue, and if we have 12 opposition parties sitting here, I think that everyone in all 12 parties who thinks democratically will have the same fears, and precisely because we have experienced it, because you have done so in the last eight, seven and a half years. This is what you have done, and we are therefore rightly preparing to see something here, and we are seeing it here, because you have so far taken all the media's segments, taken them out, and are trying to prevent the diversity of expression, freedom of expression at all levels, and we do not agree with that. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2017-11-28-170	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech.
u2017-11-28-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I got a good deal on the change of president because I got a word right away. [[Defiance.]] So I would like to welcome this bold move by Mr. President.
u2017-11-28-172	Congressman, the fact is that this was the case, so you have the floor.
u2017-11-28-173	I know you couldn't have done anything else, but let me just say thank you, even if I didn't have to. Therefore, the amendment of the 2007 Act on Broadcasting and the Rules for the Digital Transition, which is ahead of us, may not in itself have to trigger such a debate. In this you are right, it is a technical amendment. I, for my part, respectfully welcome the present representative of the NMHH, who often attends Parliament meetings. But let the representatives of the government understand what you have with a contented smile that they have an excellent MTI, which is the only source of news in Hungary today, because everyone will receive it free of charge, from Classic Radio to any other. We tell MTI news, it's like - I don't want to quote classics - equals and equals, equals get the most equal news, and then there's peace on the farm. So it is not true that Hungary has media freedom based on competition principles, based on the competition of news, at the level of European constitutional rights, because it is a controlled media. You're pumping 80 billion into the public media just to get what the propaganda industry says. They despised TV2, they despised the county papers, so they control the Hungarian communications perfectly from the capital side, from the money investment side as well. Thus, even when such a technical amendment comes, the opposition suspects that there may also be a small pit or a small trap that may result in local community televisions that may have been operating neutrally so far or meeting the needs of the market being under some kind of control. So what I'm saying is that you should read the studies you've read before, during your democratic operation, wake up the free man you've been living on before 2010 and try to think that Hungary, a European Hungary, is not like what you're feeling very well about now or that you seem to be enjoying yourself. If they compare today's situation to their former, say, ten years ago, they may not feel so consistent. So, it's a repressive system, on the news level, definitely, a condescending system, sees citizens as children, so try to stand intellectually for this situation, not just as a party soldier. I am not saying that they should do so in this very Chamber, because you would be punished for it, but at least at home when you are alone, you should read works, writings that are grown-ups that you think have a democratic feeling and compare them with what you have now. And then they realize that even in such a technical proposal there is something to suspect, because the whole system is not fair and does not provide free access to the news. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-28-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, the MSZP Group.
u2017-11-28-175	What's causing our fears to develop is that these frequencies will also be decided by the Media Authority. The National Media Authority is the one standing above everyone today. Even with his annual accounts, he doesn't have to come to Parliament, or even a Member of Parliament can ask them normal questions because he's above everyone. If a decision is taken at a frequency tender, there is no appeal at the end of the decision for those who have submitted a tender. They will be able to go to court because they have no other remedy, even if there has been a procedural error, let's say, in a tendering procedure that happens in many cases. There's nowhere to turn but to go to court. What we're going through in court, that little local radio has been shut down because it can't hold on to its people or anything. Then, for three months and 60 days, you can get an extra chance to broadcast if you have not made a decision on his frequency, but in most cases people simply leave these radios because they do not feel safe in their place. From now on, everything that is presented to us in a motion by its own representatives, and what is about the media authority's silent choice in any frequency competitions, will create fear in us, because we see that the media has been completely wiped out over the past few years. This is not a democracy or freedom of speech, which you have been trying to build over the past few years. So, of course, our fears are getting stronger and we are going to say these sentences louder and louder. And I would just like to say one sentence to my fellow Member, János Halász, that more humility and less arrogance, my fellow Member, because I think that a strong man's license is to have less arrogance and more humility. Thank you.
u2017-11-28-176	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask my fellow Member, János Halász, whether he wishes to respond on behalf of the authors. [[János Halász nods.]] Yes, my dear fellow Member, you have the floor.
u2017-11-28-177	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I tried to stand modestly and not arrogantly, and I tried not to sit quietly in my seat, but let's talk about reality. [[Anita Beringes: You laughed the whole time, my fellow Member.]] The fact is that we are talking here about a proposal for local televisions. We are setting out a real problem, making it easier to apply for local television with this proposal, that is our intention. The opposition representatives are not talking about reality, they are talking about everything else. Not for nothing in my first speech, the Expo, I emphasized that it was local televisions, but here opposition representatives spoke about everything, local radio much more than local TVs, newspapers, much more than local TVs. And Congressman Mesterházy told us not to think of them as idiots anymore. I'd like to reassure him and everyone that we don't think they're stupid; I'd like one too: don't talk nonsense, please. [[Anita Beringes: You just showed me, my fellow Member, that you think we're stupid!]] What's this about? Congresswoman, I put my glasses on, so don't get me wrong. [[Anita Beringes: Fellow Member, at least don't lie. The president's ringing the bell.]] Here's the thing. [[16.10]] We're talking local TV. Of the local televisions [[Turning to Anita Heringes's groupmate, she's another jerk!]] 38 frequencies, 37 TVs in 38 places. But there are not so many local TVs in Hungary, but hundreds! Most of them are wired, Congresswoman. I am not talking about the radios; TVs, local TVs, and our proposal here is only targeting 37 locations, a total of 38 locations where terrestrial digital radiation is affected. The others operate on cable, so everything you've said, even if you're upset, I think you're more of a fool than you are of reality. The fact is that this is what our proposal is about, i.e. the simplification of the digital terrestrial application for local televisions, and I am trying very modestly to ask for your respectful support for this right now. If my move was ambiguous, then I will follow the congresswoman, because I had absolutely no intention of showing her any harm; there is no doubt what I have just said, and I will hold it now, because I do not think that there is anything stupid to say, Congresswoman. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Following is the 1999 LXXXIV on the Road Transport Register. Act and Act XLIV of 2016 amending certain laws relating to transport. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission submitted by Mr Sándor Kovács, Mr Fidesz, Member T/18564. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Kovács, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Congressman, please.
u2017-11-28-179	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, When buying a used car, the greatest risk is the lack of knowledge of the car's history, information asymmetry. Since the 2008 crisis, the number of used car sales has still significantly exceeded the number of new car sales. New cars are typically purchased by companies, and individuals primarily meet their needs from the used car range. The bill before us amends the Road Transport Register Act. The basic purpose of this register is to protect property and transport safety. The authorities entitled to request data may request the data necessary for the performance of their statutory or statutory tasks from the register of road transport. In doing so, they shall indicate the legal provisions which may be used to obtain the relevant data. In order to ensure the proper distribution of the liability burden of insurance undertakings and the risk-proportional assessment of the fees of contracts, in order to carry out the tasks related to the settlement of claims, a history of damage of motor vehicles should be kept in a history of damage by making data available to the Association of Hungarian Insurance Companies, even in the event of damage events occurring abroad. It will be considerably easier to assess the insurance offer and establish the legitimacy of claims for damages. The amendment covers a wider range of motor vehicle related damage, which is an existing control mechanism. It is a significant security for society if the damage history of motor vehicles can also be investigated in relation to insurance. This reduces the possibility of abuse and provides a wide range of information to the owner and keeper of the vehicle. I therefore call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of this motion. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask the Secretary of State whether he wishes to speak now or later in the debate. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he wishes to speak now, so you have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2017-11-28-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The government supports the proposal. Thank you.
u2017-11-28-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-11-28-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It seems that he is not a Fidesz leader, but given the fact that this is a motion for individual representatives, he feels strong enough that other Fidesz Members no longer need to support him. The truth is that this proposal is very mature professionally. So a record like this, from which you can track a car's real history of injury, repair history, insurance history, in all respects, means transparency, the purification of this area. There is, on the one hand, a risk on the part of insurers that there may be over-invoicing or that similar injuries may be taken into account several times, but it is essential to avoid damage to used car buyers in order to prevent this from happening by means of certain information technology and database management tools. The proposal would amend the Road Transport Register Act in such a way that motor vehicles can have a more extensive history of damage to insurance. If this is in the interests not only of insurers, but also of second-hand car buyers, if it can be confirmed not directly, personally, but by a query by an insurance company, it can be particularly useful to increase safety. On this subject, a bill was already submitted in 2016, which would have settled the above question from 1 January 2018, i.e. soon. It is obvious that someone has figured out in time what went wrong in this bill, and they are trying to correct it now, before it comes into force, and fix it. Although the proposal refers, as I mentioned, to transparency, it is also obvious that the amendment will be really good for insurance companies, since they can obtain data on a motor vehicle free of charge, which they can use in the development of subsequent remunerations. Personally, I am of the opinion that at today's level of development of information technology, it is not an excessive requirement to have access to these data for free. There is a need to maintain such a database, where the damage history of motor vehicles is recorded, and I would consider it a good way to ease the problems of second-hand car buyers. This will be shown by the practice, because I see the opportunity to have this positive consequence, but after the practice, we will be able to tell whether this is the goal that I, too, would like to have. The fact that insurance companies also see clearly and we ourselves see clearly the activities of insurance companies, what they pay for what, what event they register, I think is a stage of purification, so it can bring positive consequences. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-28-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members whether anyone, representing the factions, would still like to take the lead speaker's speech. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The keynote speeches are closed. There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik Group. [[16.20]]
u2017-11-28-185	I would just like to say very briefly that the Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports the presentation. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-28-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking if any of my fellow Members have any further intention of speaking. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Member if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate as rapporteur. [[On the sign of Sándor Kovács:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2017-11-28-187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Members, Thank you very much for your support. I would just like to answer one question to my fellow Member, István Józsa. When buying a used car, the history of compulsory insurance also applies, so I think that your concern... - the customers will also see into it, which will make it transparent and safer for them, since you cannot take the car away until the insurance is tied to the used car. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2005 CLXIV on trade. Law 1 and the 2016 CLVI on State tasks in the development of tourism areas. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/18537. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State, author of the item on the agenda.
u2017-11-28-189	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The National Tourism Development Strategy 2030, which was negotiated and adopted by the Government in October 2017, puts digitalisation of the tourism sector as a priority, the development of innovative technological solutions and processes, and the development of digital skills. The strategy is in line with the Europe 2020 objective of developing tourism through innovations. Due to the expectations of the modern age, the aim in all sectors is to use digital technologies as widely as possible and to exploit their potential. The aim of the proposal is to implement the first mandatory technological step, which means modernising applications for accommodation services and connecting to data-driven Internet communications. The bill contains the first step in the transformation of the statistical reporting process of commercial and other business accommodation providers in order to ensure that statistical data on accommodation services are up-to-date and accurate, thus enabling a concrete definition of the objectives of tourism development in Hungary based on statistical data. The use of data, the clear, quantifiable conclusions that can be drawn from it, will further contribute to the targeted development of accommodation services, to supporting their competitiveness and to achieving a more efficient operation within the tourism sector. In order to define these objectives, it is necessary to clarify the provisions empowering the Trade Act. Therefore, the Government may establish detailed rules of procedure for keeping the records of accommodations, which do not contain personal data. By amending the Act on State Tasks for the Development of Tourism Areas, a national tourism reporting centre is established, which means the wider introduction of digital technology in the tourism sector. The national tourist reporting centre will be an IT system providing cloud-based services, the operator of which will be designated by the government in a regulation. The system of the national tourist reporting centre does not contain personal data, the recording of the data will be carried out by accommodation service providers via a digital interface. Another important step in the digitalisation of the tourism sector is to make it mandatory for accommodation providers to use accommodation management software, through which statistical data are transmitted to the national tourist reporting centre. The reporting centre shall maintain daily data communication with the applications of accommodations and shall build an automated comprehensive up-to-date database using only unpersonalised data. Digitalisation and these legislative amendments contribute to reducing the administrative burden for accommodation providers in the future by providing all statistics to the relevant bodies through the established central system. The technical innovations to be introduced will make it possible to simplify the administrative processes so far and to significantly reduce the administrative burden. The additional advantage of the new system is to facilitate access to statistical data by setting up the bodies concerned, ensuring that data are available in an up-to-date, uniform form and in a way that ensures the efficiency of processing. However, the legislative proposal does not affect the competence of the municipal tax authority and the foreign police authority, but to these authorities, the necessary data provided by the accommodation service providers can also be carried out in a simpler and more transparent way, since it will be possible to produce directly the documentation for these data circuits from accommodation management software, which can only be accessed by accommodation service providers, subject to data protection legislation. Digitalisation of the sector is an unavoidable social and economic interest that needs to be achieved as soon as possible. Dear House, In the light of what has been said, I would ask that the bill be debated and, after the debate that has been held, supported in the vote. Thank you for your attention. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-190	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to have keynote speeches. I give the floor to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-28-191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Fellow Members! In assessing the specific proposal, perhaps it is worth talking about tourism itself and its importance, because it is perhaps better understood that Fidesz's support for the proposal that is now being tabled, which I am now preliminating here at the beginning of the speech. So we are well aware that tourism in Hungary makes a significant contribution to boosting the economy and creating jobs. The importance of the national economy is that, by the way, this is the only sector that can be maintained almost as an exception without foreign capital or significant foreign capital, and can be operated in a profitable manner based on domestic resources. Tourism is typically the area of small and medium-sized enterprises, in 2015 46 thousand individual enterprises were registered by KSH in the tourism sector. The data of the past years also show the importance of the sector, one of Hungary's leading sectors is tourism, which plays an important role both in the production of GDP, in employment and in maintaining balance of payments. Since 2010, our tourism indicators have been constantly improving, and last year has also shown the most dynamic development. The most striking, however, is that not only did Hungarian tourism data change outstandingly compared to its previous data, especially before 2010, but it is also very good in an international comparison. This is partly due to many, many businesses and many, many workers operating in tourism, thanks to them from here too, but it may also be partly due to the government's special support. If we look at the development of the traffic of commercial accommodations, we see that in 2016, the number of guest nights spent increased by almost 7 percent, just like the number of guests. [[16.30]] The increase in accommodation rates, which exceeded 10 percent last year, has increased at a higher rate, and the total revenue has so far exceeded the previous year's results by 9.3 percent. The statistical data could be used for a long time, which is important, that this dynamic growth will continue between January and March 2017 and we will probably be able to reach the 2016 record year by the end of the year. Just because a number of international sporting events took place this year, see FINA, see the European Youth Olympics in Győr, which we hope has significantly increased the number of foreigners visiting and spending a guest night in Hungary. As I indicated, we have achieved outstanding results in Europe as well. It is perhaps worth mentioning here that one of the reasons for this is not least, also taking a prominent position in the world rankings, the most prestigious place on the list of safest European cities and countries in Hungary and Budapest. In addition to the government subsidies, of course, it can be seen that the proposals announced in the construction of the Kisfaludy programme or the work currently taking place there can lead to significant progress. So far, good data, and then, on the proposal submitted, must be seen at systemic level as the basis for maintaining this development, which, as you can see, is important from an economic point of view. So it must be seen that because we live in a wonderful country on our own, because we are hospitable, we are not sure that this development is sustainable, so there is a need for investment, there is a need for measures that we hope will underpin this development in the long term. Here we will turn to the proposal that we intend to make to enable commercial and other business accommodation providers to provide statistical information in the future that is indeed the basis of the statistical data, which are the basis of any important development plan, any long-term development idea. Last but not least, the aim is to enable a correct definition of the objectives of tourism development in Hungary based on a statistical basis that has not otherwise been possible. Using these data, the targeted development of accommodation services, the promotion of their competitiveness, and the resulting data, we hope to develop a more efficient operation within the sector. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. We would like to make it clear that we also support this proposal from the Fidesz fraction because we believe that this is not just a data collection goal, not an administrative enlargement, but, in fact, through software, XXI. In the 100th century, it will be a system of administrative mitigation, but otherwise fresh and new data for the state and the profession. Moreover, the aim of this is, among other things, to create transparency, to bring decent accommodation providers into a better position, thereby also achieving the economic whitening of the whole tourism sector. Once again, the main objective is to create a transparent database, which is based on analysis and development, which can provide the basis for continuing this very impressive development over the past 7-8 years. That is why, on the part of the Fidesz fraction, on the proposal, I can say that I ask my fellow Members to support it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-28-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-11-28-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This hopeful bill, which lies in front of us, aims to send data electronically to the National Tourist Data Service Centre, a newly created organisation, by the operators of tourism, such as accommodation providers. The only thing the authors do not answer is why and what this reporting centre will be good for. We can imagine that my fellow Member Kristóf Szatmáry also told us about his own ideas, but this is hardly written down. I will not mention that this is not in line with the legislative law, because it includes that when the bill is presented, the related implementing regulation, the government decree, should also be known. You have forgotten this a long time ago, and it is a rare exception that this proposal came before Parliament by the government and was not asked to bring Kristóf Szatmáry in here. According to the author, digitalisation requires new rules. The hosts have already provided data only on a paper basis, to the notary of the settlement and to the Hungarian Central Statistical Office. The new system will be much more serious than it is expected today, but the very essence is unknown. The government will want to lay down the detailed rules in a regulation, and it will also be empowered to do so according to the legislative proposal, such as what data they will be interested in, and it doesn't matter. So this is what we could argue here in Parliament about, what is the data that, let's say, is used to build up both consumers and service development, and what can carry other aspects. It is natural that, although they cannot request personal data in this system, they will see in this centre in a unique way all the important data, factors, and days of all the accommodations will be clearly seen at what level of reservation someone operates, how profitable they are, what costs they have. It is not surprising, of course, that, in the spirit of purification, the data will also be seen by the National Tax and Customs Office. The lack of explanation is also a good example of the justification, which I would quote from it:. A further goal is to allow a concrete definition of the aims of tourism development in Hungary based on statistical data, and to use these data to develop the services of accommodations in a targeted way, to support their competitiveness and to facilitate efficient operation within the sector by using the data obtained. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That sounds very nice, but with all the data you've got, there's not a word for it. That is why it would be good to see at least the outlines of this government decree, which you will write in the hands of this mandate. So we agree with the aim, it can be a good goal to follow; another issue is that market players no longer have much confidence in what is government, because they have seen cases where Fidesz potentates have stolen certain sectors, so there is little confidence. The fact that electronic data is, in itself, a forward-looking, non-devil idea, we agree, as more efficient development of tourism is an important national economic objective; in particular, rural tourism is the only source of income for those living there in many areas, because the rest, as a result of economic transformation, requires much less labour hands. [[16.40]] However, the question is that there is little to know about the new system, as I said. The details are defined by the government as it sees fit, neither the Members of Parliament nor the professional organisations are likely to have a view. I would therefore like to suggest that the draft government regulation should be translated at least among professional organisations, so that the comments of those affected, particularly in the area of development, can at least be used. It is also visible and is of concern that, while Fidesz' expansion in tourism is becoming more and more spectacular, the Mészároses bought over half of Balaton, the growth of Tiborcz hotels, castles can be seen either specifically or through stromants, for example, Egerszalok, giving anyone a view of the data circle that is a business secret, which, to say the least, is not reliable, there is no particular confidence on the part of the actors. In fact, in this sense, they feel that the law could jeopardise the competitiveness of their own business. Based on all this: there are good elements of the proposal, good thoughts, but the whole thing raises quite a lot of concerns, which I would like you to prevent with safeguards that this will work in a clean, fair way. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-28-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-11-28-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, There is indeed some truth about the fact that if we lived in a normal country and did not experience what we have experienced in the last seven or almost eight years, then we could also say that this is a very right direction, a very good initiative, that we will create a central database in a sectoral area, and that all the data relevant to developing tourism will be stored in a central system. That's right, the 21st. We live in the 20th century, of course, the fact that accommodation providers announce and anonymise their guests electronically, or the number of guest nights in a cloud-based system, would be nothing to object to, and even once again, would be welcome. However, we have raised a number of questions, reading the text of the bill, on the one hand, about the system and, on the other, about the possible development directions for tourism itself. What we have to say is that the problem of domestic tourism today is not that some of the accommodation providers are not fully clear about their operation. This is also a major problem and, of course, it needs to be addressed, but perhaps the most important problem is labour shortages. In tourism as well, in other industries or in other economic sectors, but perhaps in tourism, what is most noticeable is the growing shortage of workers in accommodation, catering and other businesses in the tourism sector, which is clearly not a task to remedy, but a threat to the future of the tourism sector, and especially from small and medium-sized enterprises and service providers. After all, it is the large ones who can still address and pay the existing workforce, who can keep it with themselves, the smaller ones who are less able to compete and who either have the less qualified workforce, who remain on the service market, or who do not have the right workforce, so in extreme cases they can close up. This must be addressed urgently, as it can lead to critical problems within a few years. However, while we are at the point that we will be managing accommodation providers' data electronically and using it to improve tourism, the next question is: this whole electronic system, this software, which will have to be purchased and applied by all accommodation providers, who will develop it, how much will be developed, who will be the winner of all this. Once you have it, I am, of course, pleased to hear you say that, Mr. Secretary of State. And the other is who's going to handle the data. Indeed, such a database, which contains much of the data on domestic tourism, accommodation and catering, is a very high value. In particular, it is very valuable if in a country the circles that are quite close to the Prime Minister are cutting an increasing slice of the tourism business. After all, they can gain a competitive advantage, a situational advantage by providing this market information, either being able to choose a more favourable location for their future investments, where to buy a hotel or where to operate another catering unit, or to obtain any other information, statistical information that might give them a situational advantage compared to their competitors; unless there is equal and equal chance of access to these data, and anyone who operates such accommodation provider or facility can obtain it under the same conditions. Of course, once again, it is a big question who is the operator, who is the owner of the data, who will then be free to access any data contained in the database and to whom he will possibly pass it on. We know that the authority, the NAV, may have access to these data. In Hungarian, as it is a cloud-based service, I suppose it means that as soon as the guest arrives at the accommodation provider, the moment they register it into the system, it will be included in the central cloud-based database, so whether the authority or anyone else who has access to it will immediately see the nature of the accommodation, whether it is loaded, how many guests are in the accommodation, and this may be the basis of a check. We hope that this will not be a new instrument for vetting accommodation providers and for scratching, but, of course, it may be possible to check whether the tourist tax has been paid for the number of guests and whether other contributions and related costs have been paid. So there may be an economic whitening effect on this bill in the tourism sector and, of course, it also gives rise to abuse. We always say that. Every bill on database and data management - in the past there has been such a proposal from the energy sector before Parliament, from other sectors, perhaps the last one, which initiated the establishment of a central database - and it can be said for each of them that the data holder can, of course, use it in a positive and negative way, which is why it needs to be very carefully regulated about who has access to these data and in what way. The development of tourism - as I started, I will finish with it - is really very necessary in Hungary today, there are big problems. The problem is, on the one hand, that the tourism sector is beginning to be concentrated in the hands of a group of owners or a network of companies. The second is that those who operate small family businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises and accommodation in tourism are becoming less and less employed and can operate under worse conditions. When the hundreds of billions of tourist development resources are announced, which will be available in the near future, we always listen to these announcements with some concern about who will have access to them and how. After all, the recent experience is that here, even in other public procurements, Lőrinc Mészáros and his network of companies cut themselves a significant slice, or even the vast majority of these investments or public procurements, procurements and tender sources. So we will, of course, be there, as we have been, in the near future. If this bill is adopted, and I assume that it will be adopted by the majority of governments, then we will monitor its implementation and its use from 2018 onwards, and until then from the opposition. [[16.50]] Of course, such a problem can no longer arise from who uses these data and from what discrimination and in what negative way. The development of tourism is in the interests of everyone who sits here in the Hungarian Parliament, regardless of political party standing, as it is one of the leading sectors of the Hungarian economy. Especially here, in the Balaton region, this may be more emphatic. If development resources are available, there would be much to improve, and there is much to be done in areas where we really need to be improved. I think that in the near future, these developments will have to take place if we seriously believe that we are thinking about tourism in Hungary in the future in a larger strategy, greater opportunities and greater economic potential. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-28-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2017-11-28-197	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The only refreshing exception is the fact that the wallet brings in a proposal that concerns a sector and does not come into the House as an individual amendment. That's definitely a positive. I would ask the Secretary of State whether there is any form of civilian control or insight into this database and this whole process or system that they would like to build now. As my better fellow Member just said, how competitive will this be? So the database that comes up here is publicly available on a website, or after registration, can X., Y., Z. be accessed, from journalists to civil society organisations to actors in the sector? For example, if someone wants to make an investment in Hungary, it is an important information about where the data, what utilisation data the accommodations operate with; so it is a question of the public to refer back to it once more. Moreover, the intention of the government to go towards purification or transparency in a sector is right, so that it can be better planned either to use the strategy or EU or government resources, and if the NAV joins in on this, it will be beneficial in any way. Only this right objective should be achieved by the right means in some form. In our view, the involvement of representative organisations bringing together the public, the civil sector or the tourism sector can certainly help this process. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-28-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I wonder if one of my fellow Members would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State, who wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2017-11-28-199	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me first of all to thank you for the opposition's contributions in support of the professional objectives of the proposal, which are correct and which we also want to achieve. The comments also show that my fellow Members are aware of the importance of tourism, they are aware of the importance of their domestic development, and that their toolbox can be supported by all available means, including IT tools, and more than that, they consider it necessary. After the words of the thanks, allow me once again to stress that this system, which we are proposing now, is not a new organisation, it is an IT program, which of course has an operator, which is the Hungarian Tourism Agency Zrt., which, on the basis of the designation of the law on state tasks in the development of tourist areas, is, of course, fully responsible for the closedness of this system in all aspects, data protection, competition neutrality and all other aspects. Therefore, to the question of how open or accessible this is, I must say that no, this is a closed system, an IT system specifically designed to establish state decisions, which is legally authorised and legally responsible to prevent access to it in a manner that would jeopardise possible competition neutrality. What elements of the draft law are good and which raise doubt: it is obvious that when there is agreement on basic goals and means, there is no need for such details now. Congressman Józsa said that together with the law, implementing legislation does not appear. Congressman pro form is right. This is a 20-year debate, just in my presence here in Parliament, about how a government decree based on laws can be published, what's more, other enforcement rules published with the law itself. Obviously, life-likeness is the need to first agree with the law and with the fundamental objectives set out therein, and then the government, or beyond, if necessary, the publication of the relevant wallet, or enforcement bodies, implementing legislation. By the way, I am sure that, given that the role of tourism in the economy in Hungary, in general, in the full capacity of Hungary, is of fundamental interest to the government, but not only to the present, but also to any government that is responsible for the fate of the country, I believe that in this respect the doubts are not justified, and that the resulting system will disprove doubt and confirm my fellow Members that they did well when they supported the adoption of this proposal, which I repeat and thank you in advance. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-200	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate will follow on the bill for amending certain agricultural legislation in conjunction with the General Administrative Regulation Act and for other purposes until closure. The government referral is T/18567. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István Nagy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-11-28-201	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The bill submitted by the Government seeks to amend 17 laws, the common denominator of which is to include the necessary changes in the context of the entry into force of the General Administrative Regulation Act on 1 January. With the establishment of the State Reform Committee established in 2014, a series of administrative reform measures aimed at reducing bureaucracy began in Hungary, one of the most important legislative bases of which was CLXXXVI of 2015 on amendments to the law on administrative bureaucracy reduction. Act and then Parliament adopted the Ket on 6 December 2016. the new Administrative Code of Procedure replacing it, the 2016 CL on the General Administrative Regulation. Law, Ark. [[17.00]] Ákr, which will enter into force from 1 January 2018. The purpose of the legislator was to establish a general standard governing the institutions of procedural law in all administrative procedures. The entry into force of this Code justifies the revision and appropriate amendment of sectoral laws governing certain areas of law. This bill is intended to meet this objective in the field of agricultural regulation, and these changes are essentially technical amendments of a legal nature rather than technical amendments. It deserves to be highlighted that Article XVII of 2017 laying down the rules of procedure for agricultural aid matters should be amended accordingly. A law aimed at declaring the general rules of procedure for the use and control of agricultural aid. In order to achieve this objective, the law must comply simultaneously with the rigid procedure of the administrative standard based on subordination, the requirement of flexibility as required by Community legislation in relation to the payment agency and the agricultural support law between customers. In the last ten years, the law has been able to meet this challenge, which also highlights the need to regulate agricultural subsidies on the basis of specific administrative procedures. It follows from this that agricultural support procedures are in many places compatible with its spirit compared to the general administrative standard, but necessarily contain different rules. In view of the fact that we are not talking about an official procedure in the case of procedures relating to the application for agricultural aid, these are not, in fact, covered by the General Code of Procedure, the Ár, which will enter into force on 1 January 2018. the scope of this Regulation. On this basis, it can be seen that agricultural subsidies are justified by the establishment of a sui generis procedure that builds to the maximum on the decades of good practice developed in implementation, the existing processes of the institutional system, which are accredited under EU law. It can be pointed out in advance that, on the basis of practical experience, further changes to the rules of procedure are expected compared to the previous approach of the authorities, which aims to make the administration more flexible and to meet the needs of farmers to the highest extent possible. At the same time, the agricultural portfolio has shown only the most necessary changes in this proposal, and we wish to return for further review in the autumn of 2018. The Akr. One of its major innovations is the re-regulation of the administrative deadline, which is justified by the constitutional fundamental right to manage within reasonable time limits. Without questioning the constitutional fundamental rights of customers, it should be noted that agricultural support matters are characterised by a kind of cyclicality. Submission of a request, followed by applications, processing, possible deficiencies or on-the-spot checks and payment. This application management process can ensure that only substantiated support needs are paid on each grant item. The Akr. According to him, the Hungarian Treasury, acting as a paying agency, could not provide this requirement in an understandable manner and for reasons. It is also not negligible that for certain EU funding agricultural subsidies, such as direct subsidies, the administrative deadline and, therefore, the earliest and latest time for payment, the conditions for payment are governed by EU legislation, which must also be consistent with the domestic agricultural support procedure. The Akr. Its further innovation that the first instance decision is upheld by the second-degree authority designated by the sectoral legislation will be changed or annulled because of the infringement of interests referred to in the appeal or in the event of an infringement, but the first-degree authority may not be directed to a new procedure. Appeals against agricultural subsidies shall be dealt with by the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. In view of the appeals brought against the agricultural support decisions, this would mean that, if the second-degree authority were to comply with those raised in the appeal, it would be Ákr. The additional evidence procedure should be carried out after the decision has been taken. In view of the number of appeals per year of approximately 3 000 pieces, the authority entitled to assess agricultural subsidies is unable to do so, and the payment of the legitimate aid of the producers making an appeal would be significantly delayed. In addition to the application of the sui generis procedure applicable to agricultural support cases, it is further argued that it is already known by customers and that the aid will also be used in the normal period. The fact that we are currently in the middle of the EU financial period 2014-2020 is not negligible. During this period, it is not appropriate to change the procedures already announced in relation to EU funding programmes, as this affects the accreditation of the institution. In conclusion, the primary objective of the amendment contained in this bill, including the most extensive, is to set up an autonomous agricultural support scheme that guarantees the smooth functioning of the agricultural support scheme after 1 January 2018. The second major amendment to the bill aims at amending the Real Estate Register Act. With regard to this area of law, it is of the utmost importance that we maintain effective and coherent real estate registration rules, which will continue to guarantee the management of the public real estate register, thereby ensuring the security of real estate traffic. This amendment clarifies the rules on the previously adopted real estate register, bringing it into line with the Ákr. the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. In addition, it contains only a very limited technical amendment, which is justified mainly on the basis of the experience gained in recent years in the field of land traffic regulation. These technical amendments are as follows. On the basis of the submission, it is necessary to submit a sketch from customers in the event of a change in the cultivation of a whole sub-department, but the cultivation of the new sub-department is the same as that of a adjacent sub-department. Where the approval of the sale of land by an agricultural administration is annulled by the court, the real estate authority may arrange for the cancellation of ownership under the civil code under a contract with destroyed approval. If the client requests the registration of his right on the basis of a European Certificate of Succession, the new legislation will no longer require a legal representative to submit his application, nor will it be necessary to provide a certified translation of the complete certificate, it is sufficient to translate the parts which are essential for the registration of the property register, such as the indication of the law or the title. The above rules do not constitute an additional burden for customers or the authority, and even a significant financial and other relief compared to the current legislation. In addition, the amendment of the legislation on the protection of agricultural land, which is contained in the bill, aims at reducing the administrative burden on farmers in respect of fruit plantations related to planting, by abolishing the compulsory implementation of the cadastral classification prior to the establishment of a fruit plantation. In compliance with the requirement to reduce administrative bureaucracy, there is a further need to amend the obligation of the plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation, plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation, plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation, plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation plantation. Dear Parliament, In addition to what has been said, there are, of course, a number of further amendments to the bill, but these are changes of a legal nature that I did not wish to discuss in detail. However, during the discussion of the bill, I am happy to answer the questions raised in the debate. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that, after a general and detailed debate, the bill will be supported by all the representatives of all the groups. Thank you very much. I wish you good work. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-28-202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr János Pócs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[17.10]]
u2017-11-28-203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! The bill before us, as we have heard from the rapporteur, is designed to amend quite a lot of laws. So it is safe to call the proposal a salad. However, it is also clear that the vast majority of the amendments follow a single director principle, namely the 2016 CL on general administrative order. the principle of compliance with the law, the Akr. The new administrative statute was adopted here in Parliament last year in order to guarantee the rights and legitimate interests of customers in administrative administration, to increase the quality of procedures, to increase their modernity, efficiency and transparency; and to ensure that procedures can be carried out predictablely and quickly. The adopted law is well complemented by a series of red tape reduction measures by the government that had previously begun. It is now necessary to adapt the rules laid down by law on agricultural management to the legal rules of the general administrative statute. This step, besides being legally necessary outside the issue, is also important for citizens, as the simplification targeted at the Ákr. will also be able to make the impact of improving efficiency in the agricultural sector. As the Secretary of State mentioned, if we are talking about agriculture, then you will obviously remember the administration of EU aid as soon as possible, so it is no coincidence that the amendment of the procedural law is also included in the proposal. But, as Mr Secretary of State has said, these amendments are more indirectly linked to the Ákr. harmonisation. Obviously, the principles are similar, and the aim here too is to make the administration more rational and simpler, but because of the constraints on EU rules, the legislator has less freedom to do so here. Moreover, this is precisely the reason why this area needs to be treated separately and it cannot be linked as closely to Ákr. as other regulatory elements. In addition to the provisions relating to public administration, there are also minor regulatory amendments in the bill that address other problems in laws already open to bring about compliance with Ákr. I'd like to say a few words about that, too. The Secretary of State has already mentioned such amendments to the Real Estate Registration Act, so I would not mention them separately. This proposal also amends the Law on the Hungarian Plant Protection Engineering and Plant Medicine Chamber, which includes rules on mandatory testing of plant protection machinery. The subject was previously controversial, but it is absolutely necessary to introduce control because of EU law. The task of monitoring will be carried out in the future by the plant medicine chamber, hopefully to the satisfaction of all concerned. There will also be a minor conceptual clarification in the forest law. The provisions on compensation contribution are clarified in the Agriculture Risk Analysis Act. The rules on certain documents are changed in the Fish Management Act. And there are also some of these minor clarification provisions in the proposal, which all seek to eliminate minor shortcomings and inaccuracies in the practical application of legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, We can say, overall, that, despite the vast extent of the matter, the vast majority of technical amendments that are clearly necessary are now in front of us and, in my view, are not really an opportunity for a professional debate. I can imagine that there may be some kind of debate opening up on a political scale here, but I hope that this can be rejected because it is really mainly technical issues. In this spirit, I call on my fellow Members to support the bill. Mr President, thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Gőgös, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-11-28-205	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that there is a law before us now that is a thank-you God, entered into the system in the way that laws should normally be: government proposal and not an independent motion. And there's a note that he's in agreement with interest representatives. That's what I was trying to check out. There were 17 amendments to the law, and we got to eight with the lobbyists, which was in agreement. There may have been an interest group with all of them, but not all of them. The biggest problem is that there was no agreement on the MVH - I say so, because it is simpler - also the changes to the support body, which is a pretty tough story. And obviously I will not lead this debate to any political level, but I will tell you all the critical elements that I think are wrong in this amendment - either faulty or unnecessary. We have to ask ourselves, if the Ark has not yet entered into force. - you're supposed to come into force on January 1st, the Ket. then it's gone - but now it's one area, two more precisely, because the real estate register belongs here, one-on-one removes it from its scope, so why did it have to? Then sectoral laws have to be done, then you don't have to say - add to the Akr. correction or implementation or acceptance of it was a positive thing, customer-friendly, there were a lot of changes in the offices involved, now what has been a change so far is being reversed by this law. So I think that the aid body is given very serious licenses that I think are sometimes unnecessary. I can say that with this law, the agriculture was taken out by the Akr one at a time. and through the real estate register, the population as well. So that part can be forgotten. So what was a positive element is not now. With regard to the aid regulations, it is of particular concern that it is not regulated at all, for example. So in Hungarian, the applications are completely missing. So the tendering period, when there should also be some regulation, is how long it is possible to make a bid, at a time when the economic environment changes in a crazy way and prices are, for example, expensive... - how long can you delay a criticism of how long an undertaking can manage to make up for years or a year and a half or two of criticism. The second is that there is actually no sanction if the agency does not comply with the deadlines. So in this law, there is no such thing as not complying with the deadline, but then what happens. There's practically no reference to that. I'm gonna add the real estate records and the Ket. it's different, but now we've seen it as the Akr. This has been dealt with by its introduction, and now it will be undone. From the 21-day earlier Ket deadline, it's Akr. He also resigned. Now there are further extensions, even infinite administrative deadlines. I'll give you one or two of these. If I go into details, I'm gonna start with the tax. I think the Secretary of State also acknowledges that it has nothing to do with Ákr., so that paragraph. That means we passed a law last week, which is bad because it's one foot. We added that it would be tax-free even if someone gave the land to their company, but we did not change the foot that only a small farmer was entitled to do so. This one's gonna take it out. So in that sense, it's okay, but it has nothing to do with this law, for example. But after I told you, she already had 16, so she could take 17. I would also like to say - I will be able to look at it exactly, I forgot to write down the paragraph number - we are amending a clause in the Water Management Act that is not available, so there is no paragraph in the Water Management Act. Let's just say it's a juicy case, but obviously it's not something that the Secretary of State has to pay attention to, but the person who writes it. Real estate registration law: what is an interesting change is that a copy of the deed must indicate whose use or no registered user is in the land use register. Now, there's a big problem with that, and I'll tell you why: because that law gives us loopholes again when we don't have to report it. This is a misrepresentation of landowners because they are asking for a deed of ownership, it says that it is not included in the land use register, so there is no land use register. [[17.20]] But you do have a user, because we did exempt you from this registration by some other procedure, so I think we should consider it, and it's an old story, and we've run into it a million times as to why land use records are needed at all, beyond the fact that it's obviously possible to interfere with the process of land law, but that, besides all the exceptions, when all the exceptions, it may now be an exception to the fact that the notary is issuing a document that two witnesses are signing up to, and then he says that land use is justified. This is the way it used to be that witnesses could justify pension rights. So if we're going with them, then I don't think this whole thing makes any sense at all, so to maintain such a system. Besides, this has become a correction for a system established in 97, and I do not think that joining the EU makes any real sense because the EU is not interested in eligibility. One thing he cares about is that the area is cultivated. He doesn't care if it's done by the owner. He doesn't care if it's different. I think it's worth getting rid of. Plus, you shouldn't mix the two, because the land use itself has nothing to do with this real estate registration case. By the way, the owners usually know about this because they are obviously the ones who conclude the contracts, but I still think that it is possible to deceive them if that stays that way. The mortgage holder shall be informed of the change of ownership. If we're putting the land user on the deed now, why not him? It's an important case for him to know now that there's been a change of ownership. I think in the law, as long as it stays that way, this should be included so that we not only inform the owner of the change of ownership that it is burdened, but also inform the user. I think it's clear what I'd like to say about this. Returning to the Grant Act, I still believe that this should not have been taken out by the Ákr one at a time. from the top There must have been a thousand reasons. It was a separate law before, and I accept that, but I don't think that's fair to the customers. There's no administrative deadline for applications, I'm referring to that. There's got to be something here, too, because it's not good. There's no guarantee, and he's even giving us a loophole. There's something interesting about it. It says that you can suspend the procedure, that if you have to get data from co-governments - well, that's almost always the case! Therefore, if, for example, it receives data from ENAR, it suspends the procedure for that time and then it is not concluded how long it can be suspended and the co-government is not bound by the time it is required to provide data. So here's what I'm saying, we can get to the point where we have endless deadlines. I'm saying extreme things right now, but believe me, it was a problem before, that in Hungarian, the state was a bit of an MVA in the state; then we called it MVA, and now we call it a support body. 87. § 40/A: if the identity of the successor is contested, the proceedings shall be suspended by the body itself. I think it's okay. Otherwise, it may be suspended. You know the saying that Hungarians have three reasons to drink: joy, sorrow and so forth. But what else is there? 'Cause it's another rubber rule you say it's different, and then what's a good guy like you gonna do with that? Not to mention, and this is a more dangerous course, that in the event that this succession lasts for more than three years, the successor loses the support. This goes completely against EU law because there is no such thing. And that's why we're considering how many places there are, let's say, succession disputes that don't end in three years. It's practically written here that for three years the client, the successor, is a client. This should be forgotten, Mr Secretary, because it is not a common story, but what we cannot do is go against European Union legislation so openly, because that support goes to the heir. If it's not three years from now, it's five years from now. It doesn't matter when. It's also exciting that this whole package of laws talks about support agencies all the time, and then suddenly the Treasury comes by. And I think you should take that out of him, because I understand now that the support agency is now the Treasury, but what if it isn't? So we should definitely get this out, because I think it's a wooden iron ring like this. You shouldn't leave this in, because it's not good. I mentioned the 90th. Paragraph 1 states that if data were to be obtained from another body, it would change the deadline for administration; I have already referred to this. The duration of the provision of budgetary resources is also suspensive in the system - I do not understand that. 'Cause I don't think the Treasury can pay without the funds and funds behind it. Let's just say that animal welfare aid can be advertised at all if there's collateral behind it. In English, this paragraph is not understandable to me, because in this system it does not make any sense, because it may be possible in this extreme case, but I very much doubt that anyone will advertise it, it can be an EU source or a domestic source, and I said the animal welfare because part of it was a larger source, but now it's more EU, because it can't be done by then. In English, what I said, I'm talking about what I think is unnecessary, because I sure as hell don't need it. There's another argument here that the body has 70 days to assess the appeal. That's true even if, let's say, a data is wrong, but you have 15 days for the client to turn it in. You shouldn't make that difference. So you either have to raise your client or take the other one down, because that's not fair. Plus, there's a problem. The thing is, in the event of a dispute, the lawyer can go to court after 30 days, and then the appeal will be settled for 70 days. Then if you don't go to court after 30 days, then the stunt has failed, at least that's true in my interpretation. So again, we shouldn't put this in, it's not a client-friendly thing. Which, again, I think, is completely unnecessary, because it is not in the agricultural system, so to speak, or even in the land offices, that appeals can only be made on a form. Mr. Secretary. Take that out of him. This is pointless. A lot of people aren't gonna hear about this, and that's gonna be the basic reason for rejection. So I think the only reason the Bureau put this in there is because it's going to be a point no one's gonna pay attention to, that they're gonna have to download a form, and then if the form isn't like it or not, then even if the appeal is justified, it's all gone. And then, finally, I would like to read something. That's 161. § 11/A §13 of the Land Traffic Act. The contract concluded pursuant to paragraph 1 of Section 1 in breach of the obligation to refuse to transfer the land to another part of its use is null and void. I'd have to read this three more times to understand what it is. I sort of labized it, and it comes up in one more place. So it's about letting someone pass land use even though he said he was using it himself, say, after 18 years, because he gets sick, then the original contract has to be terminated. Well, there wasn't a greater obsession under Werbőczy. So we should think again about the deadline for this. 'Cause I get it, like, a year or two, or put it there, if it's not justified, but there are objective issues where, like, someone gets sick, they can't do it. The other is that perhaps it should be written in Hungarian, because I read it once or twice, and it came to me that what it was about. I'm just saying this, Mr. Secretary, because people are gonna be reading this. So in Hungarian, I understand that the essence of this is that if someone could buy land because he said that he would use it as a small producer or an ancient farmer, and then he didn't give a shit about it in Hungarian, then the contract should be void, and then something should start, then there was another candidate, or, I don't know, let it be another thing. We just need to write down some sane deadline for that, or something in vhr. to write down when it is, because it's a rubber rule again, so we have to make sure that the state doesn't interfere in bilateral contracts, let's say, on such a simple corrective matter. So I think I understand intent. I also understand that you've tried here because there's a client-friendly measure in it. Obviously, it's not my job to list them, but there's something in it, it's indisputable. But in this way, this law is certainly not acceptable to us, so let's think about it a little bit more, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2017-11-28-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Földi, the lead speaker of KDNP. [[17 .30]]
u2017-11-28-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief: the KDNP faction supports the submitted bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Grimlock: Are you in a hurry, Laci? Defiance.]]
u2017-11-28-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-28-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Yes, 17 laws are being amended by the proposal before us. That would not be a problem in itself, since there are quite a lot of laws that are worth amending. Moreover, I do not dispute, as has already been said today, that in several points it contains serious red tape reduction measures and other assistance for active farmers. Not to mention the fact that there are EU obligations here to bring domestic legislation into line. I do not dispute these, nor do I mention them, it is really none of my business, Mr. Secretary of State has already given us a taste of these here. We do not complain, therefore, about how much more difficult we have to do than our pro-government colleagues, because we, say, have to process, interpret and synchronize proposals with the minimum help of such 17 laws, against which you have a serious apparatus and ministry. However, it really must be said in this draft that this year it was the toughest nut we could get in our field. Accordingly, I will not, of course, analyse and go through this by paragraph, and, as I have said, the forward-looking proposals are neither my job to highlight them here. But just yesterday, I had an interpellation about what lifelike, everyday problems there are for farmers, and what the state can do most by cutting red tape and making them work better. This proposal, which lies before us, does not remedy them, or at least not sufficiently. As has already been said, indeed, where there are loopholes for the state from the deadlines, it always raises serious questions for us, because here, in relation to the slippage of subsidies, especially in cases where there is some problem or dispute between the support body and the farmer concerned, they may take such a huge measure that payments may be delayed for years, which, knowing the capital power and opportunities of the smaller Hungarian economies, means, in many cases, that they should, for example, give up their farming. That is why I am concerned that there are differences between deadlines that the state can do, sit on it and think about for more than two months, and that a Hungarian farmer should answer and act in two weeks. 70 or 15 days, it's a huge difference. It has also been said here that 30 days have been given to the courts, which is not in sync with these deadlines. I do not know how this proposal would change, for example, the attitude, what would make the state more economical. Let us think here of the case that I have also mentioned, that let us say, a telephone, simple query is impossible for the farmer concerned in relation to the fact that he has a case, which is a dispute with the paying authority, about how he stands. There are some pretty amazing answers coming, and no one will be able to figure out what it would be like to move his case forward as soon as possible. Letters are sent from the authority to a question that is often 20-30 pages long, and the real message or the essential thing that should be peeled out of it could be expressed in a sentence or two. It is not simply expected of farmers to be able to interpret this mass of legislation, which you send in response in one case or another. Even people with legal qualifications are often puzzled, and this is not changed by the weight of legislation before us. It has been mentioned here that appeals will have to be filed on a form, for example. I am concerned, too, because today we are saying that it doesn't matter that Mozilla or Firefox and I are opening up a public site where farmers should submit anything or give answers or upload a statement or photo to solve their problems. It doesn't matter. So what form are we talking about? It is also a serious problem, and I have also mentioned this several times, not even the anomalies in the direction of change are dealt with, for example, by the proposal before us, but we would expect it, and farmers would expect that when there is a change in their total aid amount of 1, 2 or a few percent - not even a debate - why the total amount of aid should be withheld for them for half a year or even longer. Correct me, Mr Secretary, if I'm wrong, but I don't see any progress on this in this bundle we're looking at. Indeed, because of these deadlines, which may be arbitraryly extended by the authorities, a multitude of farms have fallen. Or it is enough to think that, in the case of, say, a tender, when the person concerned already knows that he has won the tender in principle, but the payment is not yet made for a long, long time, and then, when it finally happens, obviously, knowing the construction prices, knowing the shortage of labour in the construction sector, the cost of the same investment will be so brutally expensive that, according to previous undertakings, it will no longer be able to perform, and this may, among other things, be due to the flexible interpretation of deadlines in this form. So we would have preferred that such changes, based on the experience of today's life and capable of dealing with the problems here, would have been more important in this bundle. Once again, I stress that there are many forward-looking things in it, and we can of course support them, but among other things, we would certainly like to see them deal with the problems I have said in such a salad. If 17 laws had been opened, 19 could have been opened, or several sections of these 17 laws could have seen others that would have been worth opening. So for these reasons, I am proposing here from the Jobbik faction that, by the deadline for the amendment on Thursday, we will try to include elements that are also trying to address the problems I have said, and that we will try to modify the parts that we consider to be flawed in the proposal before us, and we will decide on this basis whether we can support this proposal. So I stress that many times, not because of what is in it, but because of what is not in it, I have these questions, and it would be good if Mr Secretary of State could answer one or two of the practical problems that I have raised, however, how he will deal with the proposal before us, because it might also make it easier for us to be convinced. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-28-210	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2017-11-28-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I encourage my better fellow Member not only to support what is not in it, but also to reject what is in it. Because although Mr. Secretary of State began by hoping that this would not be a political debate, what should we do in Parliament if I wanted to represent the interests of small farmers as you represent the interests of Sándor Csányi and Lőrinc Mészáros? As a result, there is obviously a conflict of interest here, because you support the big ones, we want the small ones. It follows that all we have to do is talk about political aspects, what is behind this law. First of all, I would like to express my deep indignation, because 17 laws are thus packed together, and it is not true that there is a director principle, so there are various amendments, so it cannot be treated normally. We should have gone over 105 pages in a couple of days, and we don't have the capacity. So this is typically a measure which, in my view, also violates the legislative law, since it does not create the opportunity for the Member of Parliament to come into a general debate on the basis of his role as a representative of the people, with a proper background for such legislation. That's the first problem. The second is that, in my opinion, this should have come to Parliament with 17 separate proposals, and we should have talked about this separately, because a significant part of them does affect the situation of agricultural production. My fellow Member, Zoltán Grimlock, has said four or five times, if I count correctly, that this should be thought about. I sincerely admire my fellow Member that he is still so confident in the national cooperation system that they will think of anything, so that if his experience has not been wiped out of my fellow Member in the last eight years, then I am glad that he trusts this even towards the end of the eighth year. So I would also like to draw your attention to some of the reasons why this law should not be supported and adopted by my fellow opposition Members. Obviously, being full of hit-and-runs, misconceptions, that's not a reason. So I'm guessing that one of the committees will come in with an amendment, where I don't know, I've counted at least 10-15 hits in the entire material, which are such pronouncing errors and various press errors that have occurred during typing - and will be modified. But here's the content part. I'll start with the tax law. According to the law in force so far, it has been exempt from the transfer levy or transfer levy as an individual entrepreneur, farmer or family farmer if it has used the land itself for at least five years after it was purchased. [[17.40]] Well, it makes sense, after what happened last week or two weeks ago, that these three groups will be deleted here, too, under the current amendment, and the government will extend the tax exemption to social enterprises. So again, it gives a discount to good friends. It wasn't enough for the few ten billion you gave to the big groceries with no tax, and now you're introducing a tax exemption. Obviously, this will be a good thing for the orange barons, the Magosos, because they are affected by this levy in a significant part, and those who bought land from you, but are not in any way in the interest of the small farmers and are not in any way in the interest of the Hungarian society. The following legislation, which is affected, is the Animal Welfare Act. Here I share the opinion of my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, because basically here, what is not in it, which could be simplification, is what is causing problems. You are talking about simplification in the introduction of the law, while - my fellow Member Zoltán Gőgös also referred to it - the possibility of recourse is limited to a form. At its very first point, the point was that a submission must be interpreted in accordance with its content. And now they are practically obliging the various actors of society to do so with a thorough knowledge of the law. And the reason I point out the animal husbandry law as an example is that the number of breeds we deal with, whether sheep groups or horses or cattle, there are always completely different administrations for unique identification. In each case, you have to struggle separately. In the case of sheep with ear numbers, there, if the instructor comes when he's available at all, they're overloaded to see if they can do the unique identification. In horses, the horse passport must be handled separately, and its system is completely confused. The cattle have a completely separate system again. If you were to do this in the FM, you would see the problem of why this is a problem, the difficulty for a farmer who, let's say, has a breeding job of all three breeds and is unable to meet these expectations, especially if it depends on external actors. Thus, in the case of cattle, the local veterinarian has a real opportunity; well, sometimes they also have capacity problems. Not to mention settlements where a service is not directly available where you can use it. Excuse me for not going in order, but I'm running out of time. Once again, I see the greatest such maladministration in fish farming, where it is once again said to be a simple adaptation. It's not like that. Well, you're changing the basics of fish farming again. So far, it's been said that an ancient profession has been abolished with a feather stroke. This was their first substantive measure. In addition, the people who have lived from it so far, this is more than a hundred families, no compensation or location was helped by the FM. Several times, they protested, they went to Mr. István Nagy State Secretary, they went to different places, they didn't get any help, that's the fact. Even though these unhappy people went to János Lazarus in person, despite searching for the FM, they were only good enough to disband them so that there would be no protest. Hungarians cannot now eat native fish from natural water on the shore of Tisza or on the shore of Lake Balaton, because there is no fish. The possibility of this has been removed, so it cannot be found in any form from natural water to a gastronomic place. After that, they gave all the tasks of farming in a monopolistic situation to the notary, the notary, who was not in the circle of friends, which became Mohos. Mohosz has roughly absorbed Hungarian fish farming, a civil society organisation has received a full monopoly, and practically dictates to the Ministry what it wants, and also to fishing organisations and fish producers alike. In Europe, the fact that there is no Hungary is virtually unique, there is an online exchange of fishing tickets everywhere else. Well, Tamás Deutsch can safely return his assignment if he has not been able to achieve such fundamental things in recent years to make progress in such services! We are practically unique in Europe, where we can only buy fishing tickets from one association on paper basis, only in specific shops, so that one can go fishing. And now, practically with this legislation - and I quote the place of law - they will also eliminate the last access to fishing, because they have added that from now on, if you want to fish on a private fish pond, you have to buy a state fishing ticket. Well, don't let anyone pay the state. Don't let the Mohos get the faggot off of something. I'm gonna make a fish pond, I'm gonna put the fish in it with my own money, and from now on, I'm gonna pay the state and the Mohos for it, because I did it to myself. Basically, the collection of this money is obvious, isn't it, there are two things that always move the system here: one is how much money they can collect, how much they can take home, and the other is how they can keep power. And obviously, what kind of management interests he has in this case is very simple, because in practice, the Mohos associations have done what they wanted with the waters they had received from the state, and they have been able to fill the waters with fish bought black from pond farms, largely through their black fishing tickets. This is a common practice in both Mohos-treated lakes and elsewhere. Now, this is gonna cement it so that no one can have a party here without the Mohos, and he's gonna have to share it. And obviously, the fact that Mohos is involved in this raises, in many cases, how Mohos will contribute to private lakes. What are you gonna do for a private lake? When a man has transformed a mine lake, how will he benefit from it? But here's the other question: up until now, the private lakes have been the permanent ones that, let's say, created fishing tourism with alien adventive species: African catfish, amur, these were the planting sports fish. This is what Mohos would like to do in his own system, in his own-treatment lakes, which is rather disgusting, isn't it, for someone who would serve the protection of the native fishfauna as an organization, and creates the possibility of all this, to see all the other measures, who, where, how they are fishing. Technically, these associations use daily fishing to produce a lot of black money, and they can be the largest unaccounted buyers of producers. In the current strictly centralised system, they couldn't do this without the management knowing, and now obviously the management is involved in the party, so only the Mafia method is good for Fidesz, which he can benefit from. So the point is, once again, there's a tough business interest behind a regulation on what to do with fish. Much of the problems related to the real estate register have been affected by my fellow Member Zoltán Gőgös, and there are obviously some things that might actually be positive here, but it is still not simplified that, if we consider the current aspects and say that the system of public administration is to simplify access for citizens, then why we need to do alternative registers alongside land ownership, in addition to own land use announcements, which the MVH is doing today. They can't explain it to this day! So someone's registered for land use, I even have to report it to my property, right, then I use it legally, and then every year, I can draw a map on my own land so that there's no extra credit. However, without further ado, you can request the data from the Land Administration so that you can only receive an area payment if you have a declared area use. I'll tell you why we need this system: because of what Zoltán Gőgös pointed out here in 13 so that we can apply for a black area area. There's no other meaning to this system. Because if you didn't grant area payments just for the announced land user, there would never be a chance in life to abuse it. But you're not creating this, but you're making the system a little more complicated so that transparency doesn't become simpler and they say it's for cutting red tape. No! It would be in order to reduce bureaucracy if the Land Administration were to hand over the aid to the beneficiary, whether it is the Treasury or the MVH, the data, and they would receive the aid on the basis of it. But here the system will be complicated. I'm gonna keep going, 'cause I'm supposed to be in the middle of 17 laws, and I'm only on the fourth. Here's the forest law. The provisions allowing the forestry authority to impose a forest protection penalty on the forest infringer shall cease to apply on the grounds that this relates to the entry into force of the general administrative order replacing Ket. However, it is in particular that the obligation to certify the origin of timber is advanced in cases of transport use. It's like they're trying to help illegal logging. So far, the forestry authority - formerly an independent administration, now within the government office - had the right to control it, had the right to ask about it - when these little Zhuks come across the country and I don't know what they are, Roburok with the loaded tree - where the tree came from, what happened to the raw material. Now, referring to the Ket., 107. Paragraph 3 (e) of this Article gives rise to entitlement and cannot be verified during forest management tasks or forest protection procedures. Well, now that we're on the cover of the Index about how villages are drowning from garbage burning, now that we're talking about the need for a social gas programme, of course there's an increase in illegal logging, of course there's a greater pressure on our natural resources in protected areas! And what are you doing? They're taking out the possibility for the forest authorities to check the background on where the tree comes from that someone's moving it somewhere. What's in it for who? Of course, you can say that the supplier's administration has been simplified, but in fact, it has helped illegal timber producers to do their job. [[17.50]] In accordance with point (e) of paragraph 1 of this Article, the rights are acquired and these tasks cannot be verified during the forest management process. Well, now that we're on the cover of the Index about how villages are drowning from garbage burning, now that we're talking about the need for a social gas programme, of course there's an increase in illegal logging, of course there's a greater pressure on our natural resources in protected areas! And what are you doing? They're taking out the possibility for the forest authorities to check the background on where the tree comes from that someone's moving it somewhere. What's in it for who? Of course, you can say that the supplier's administration has been simplified, but in fact, it has helped illegal timber producers to do their job.(17.50) Basically, all these amendments are hidden behind you making bureaucracy cuts. Well, not at all. In addition to cutting red tape, the possibility of stealing is increased; it is obviously not possible to know that you or just indirect persons, but that is what very, very much action goes out in the legislation. Forgive me, Mr. Secretary, for I am certainly not mentioning the positive elements either, because I do not feel that this is my job. I would like to mention this to my fellow Member from KDNP. [[Defiance.]] The amendments to the transitional rules on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land are also explicitly such as those which may pose risks. The acquisition of land ownership and land use rights under the Land Traffic Act will be conditional upon the land-owner's undertaking not to allow land to be used by anyone else, using it himself. This is the same thing my colleague Zoltán Gőgös talked about, but he found another round sentence, which is written in about five lines, and from the five lines of sentences the various provisions should be determined by comma. The amendment states the consequence of nullity in the case of contracts concluded in breach of this undertaking. We can tell you a lot of cases where that could be a problem. This may be uncomfortable for the FM, but the farmers of Pátonymegyer, who regularly go to the media, have come up with several cases like this. In this case, let's say that one of the large owners of Bábonymegyeri - a certain Magos member - does not cultivate the land after buying the land, but cultivates the land with another farmer from abroad, and practically only bought the land for support, this could be as much a problem as the litigation case in which the second-degree procedure is already under way, when practically the land sold during compensation has been deprived of its right to use the National Land Fund and sold its land to someone else. Who uses the land? From now on, using this legislation, a lot of extra risks appear to land users, creating risks that may not serve the interests of the countryside. For this reason, this place of law may also pose serious risks. Unfortunately, I have half a minute left, and I have not yet touched on eight pieces of legislation, I think, but all of this together raises a lot of reservations, because we do not see that this will make the next period of agricultural administration better. For this reason, I urge my fellow opposition Members to fear that this should not be supported. We should get the FM to disassemble it calmly, not in such a 105-page monstrous manner, to present us with your suggestions, to look at this in 3-4 days, to see what is in it, to try to interpret it by searching for legislation, but to see what is wanted and why in a fair procedure. Since this is not known, our faction cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-11-28-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group.
u2017-11-28-213	Thank you very much. I would like to make a brief comment on the debate, as we have already discussed a number of procedural legislative amendments that have a little hair on it today. I think the Member before me explained it in very technical detail, and Zoltán Gőgös also explained what it was about, but I do not agree exactly, and I would ask Mr State Secretary to help me with that. I do not understand why an amendment is being tabled which, let us say, increases the authority of the client. These chaotic procedural changes, which Congressman Sallai R. Benedek is talking about, are inevitably ringing the bell in the mind of an opposition representative that when procedures are so complicated they do not come together, at least they do not seem to be compatible, even with the greatest good intentions, when they are linked to all forms and others, then the matter itself and the person or enterprise involved will be lost in the mazes of the office. It's always a little bit of a feeling. This optimistic approach is that the intention will simply be lost and the positivity of the case will be lost. The more negative approach is what my fellow Member from LMP talked about. This has logic, of course, if the office wants to mess with you, or if you want to screw with someone, or if you want to make an opportunity of interest based on these complicated regulations. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to clarify or clarify what these very chaotic and bleeding proposals now serve. You just couldn't get these stitches together properly? Or is there some kind of awareness behind this? The intention is right: to be simpler, more transparent, easier to handle. In comparison, on the basis of the debate that has been held, I see that this will have the opposite effect. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-28-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There is now room for further speeches by Members. I'm asking if anyone wants to take this opportunity. [[Sallai R. Benedek reporting.]] Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, please.
u2017-11-28-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to use the possibility of saying that I would like to persuade Mr Secretary of State to act as if this was a parliamentary debate. How about you respond to what's been said? If we're wrong about something, we're wrong about something. Because it is, if you say it in a closed word, and everyone here gets it wrong, everyone is the enemy of Hungarian farmers, and nobody here understands anything, and only KDNP spoke well, because it is a good summary of the point. [[Defiance.]] Then it won't be very pleasant. So I'm asking you to pretend this is a parliament, like we're arguing, and tell me if we're wrong about something. Let us have a debate, because I think we can serve our constituents better if we try to convince each other than in a democracy. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-28-216	Thank you very much. If any of my fellow Members have applied for a further speech. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr István Nagy, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-11-28-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, I wish to respond because we have witnessed very interesting manifestations. I'll split it into two parts. One part is the circle of Members who have tried to understand and understand what the law is about, trying to understand professionally what we are doing. There were also opposition representatives in this area. [[To Sallai R. Benedict:]] And you, my dear fellow Member, who was driven by political passion and was also very far from professionalism or understanding because you were blinded by political anger that you simply couldn't see the lines in the law. I am very sorry for that, because if there is a political difference between us in the first place that you do not want to understand it at all, or do not want to talk about it on the basis of professional considerations, but that it is only driven by political spirit, then it is really difficult to come to a common denominator. But let me answer the questions that have been raised. Almost everyone started pushing why it had to be changed, why it had to be different from the original, and why we wanted to get out of the Ákr. system. The reason - and we admit it honestly, completely openly - is because of the Akr. in its styling, standardizing system, as much as we would like, because of the specialities and specific situation of agriculture and agriculture, it is not possible to maintain the time and standards which are otherwise very well intended by Ákr. He'd drag me into this system, and he'd like me to. That is why we want to establish a sui generis procedure for agricultural subsidies that will build on the decades of good practice developed in implementation and the processes already in place in the institutional system that are accredited under EU law - because that is what we want. If we look at the interests of farmers, the danger of a new accreditation would once again shift payments and upset the whole system in the coming period if we created a general change here on 1 January 18. So, overall, I would like to say that, in effect, all of this had to be done in order to ensure that the legal certainty of the payment itself, and the functioning of the entire agricultural sector itself, were followed by appropriate regulations. However, we want to make the operation and regulation of agriculture life-like. Mr Haughty has suggested that the duration of the evaluation of applications is not regulated by the law. This was also raised by my fellow Hungarian Member. What have we been up against, and why did it occur that the evaluation period for proposals has been so long? The fact is that there was an EU demand for Hungary. The referral system had to be redesigned and rebuilt. That took time. System's up, system's up. What I can tell you is that there is now a functioning system. Of course, this seemed slow, because from the setting up to the announcement of the tender, it was a long time. But now the system is working, good practices are in place. [[18.00]] So from now on, any new system or tender will be launched, which will be much easier and simpler, but in order to be able to draw out the tenders, in order to ensure that our accounts with the European Union are in order, this procedure, the whole new method of tendering, had to be changed and developed. That's why it was necessary. The issue of real estate records and land use was raised by my fellow Member. The big question here is always who is entitled to receive the aid. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] And since the user is the user, it is necessary. And he suggested that, in addition to the owner, the user should be informed of any changes, but we believe that it would be extremely difficult to establish a register of those changes. After all, the owner exercises his ownership rights and has contact with the land user. It would lead us very far (Zoltán Grimlock intervenes.) If the owner simply had no contact with the land user himself for a long time. The name of the support body and the Treasury, as it is the Treasury now, can be supported to use a uniform term, and it can be transferred in the long term, and I see nothing wrong with that. Obviously, the Treasury's in there because this one's in here. Everyone criticized him, and I'm really sorry they didn't understand that appeals can only be made on the form. If we can help farmers, that's exactly what it is. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] After all, the form characterizes it, helps it, leads it as a crutch, how to lodge an appeal. Don't start writing yourself a 20-40-page complaint that the administrator can't process, nobody understands, and at the end of the day, a little data is missing. Manco, help for farmers to use the form itself, so it helps them to use it, because in the end everything is decided on paper, so all remedies, all criticisms are decided on the basis of paperwork. It is therefore necessary to have a uniform appearance there and to be judged on the basis of the same data and therefore the form is necessary. Thank you very much for understanding the intention of the law, and for seeing a advance in the interests of Hungarian farmers, thank you very much for that, and I hope that we will also be able to obtain your final support after the amendments. To my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, the law was a truly hard nut, but I must say that whoever is in contact with farmers, who understands their problems every day and perceives the problem that is in the farming community, knew that these are about the things that are pushing the farming community, that these questions are coming. The deadline for the administration of disputes: it is extremely important to look for legality. So when you say that farmers will receive 20-page answers to a submission: yes, because we are being checked from the European legal system and are required to do so. In order to draw money to support farmers, it is not up to the good or bad intentions of the Hungarian government, but to the fact that there is this pillar of the common agricultural policy that we have to pay farmers. This is regulated, and according to the law, we must be able to comply with this regulation according to European Union legislation. So we need to make laws at home that we can legally pay. So when there is a change, when there is a dispute, there must be a reason that if the farmer goes to the final judicial forum or a forum of justice, the question should still be legally stopped, and therefore cannot be dealt with on the phone in a moment; it would be a Hungarian virtus, but unfortunately this is not the order of the procedure. That's exactly why if there's a slight change, a 1-2 percent difference, then why is half of it held back, or why the whole process doesn't start. Because this whole process can only be done by law, and we need to close and close very serious abuses, the possibility of any such development. I have just told you about the length of the applications, and I very much hope that this will work. To my colleague Sallai R. Benedek, I started with him, and I'm sorry for his anger that this has come to pass. [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] And tell me that you're upset about the 17 amendments, but I have to tell you that you can see that the Fidesz-KDNPs are really connected to the host society again because of all the problems (Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.) They come to the government, they come to the representative organisations, and they indicate that these need to be changed. Believe me, my fellow Member, we did not come up with these ideas on our own, that farmers should be destroyed, but that there was a very strong need for economic society to change them. It's very interesting, and I have to say, and I'm sorry, but you started with a very harsh political outburst, and I ended up smiling because you got caught, and you got busted. 'Cause when you were worried about the little guys, and you were hurting us with all kinds of colors... who said anything about the interest of the fish pond owners? Well, where's the pond for a little man, my dear fellow Member? [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] You made such a big mistake, I can't even tell you that. You've been set up again by your supporters. You're worried about those who have a huge lake system, and there we're trying to clean up, make rules. (Sallai R. Benedict intervenes. ) Where are the little people's interests, my dear fellow Member? ! [[Sallai R. Benedict: Everywhere!]] So you've been very wrong about this, and once you get out of the bag - you can see who dictates to you and what interests they can represent. That's the same fishing weeping story you told me. We have discussed several forums with fishermen, and I have to say that whoever is concerned about nature, who would like to have fish again in our waters, in our natural waters, had to tidy up in this area as well. And the fact that there are more fish in the water today in Hungary [[Sallai R. Benedek: You have no idea what you're talking about...]] that there is an increase in the number of fishermen and the number of our countrymen who can relax much more and have more success on the shores of our natural waters, I think it's absolutely necessary. [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] It's a very important thing. Criticism of Mohos: let me ask you, my dear fellow Member, who would we trust with the fishing industry as a civil society that brings together the Hungarian fishing community. Again, it's a misguided idea in you that I can't place, and I find it difficult to understand why you have a problem with a professional NGO organizing the fishing society, which will represent you with. So it's just unbelievable to me. You, who, by the way, claims to be a supporter of civil society organisations, are now attacking the professional civil society organisation - it is very difficult to interpret. I would say to my fellow Member, Mr Attila Mesterházy, that he asked why the amendment that seemed to him to strengthen the office against the farmers seemed to him, I must say that this is not the case at all. We need to strengthen the legal certainty that will allow us to draw EU funds to farmers in full, but to do so, we need to comply with the rules that make this call possible. So all the crutches, all the help we give farmers to draw this aid, are precisely to strengthen the safety of this and to make it possible for it to be safe. This whole law is about how it can be simpler. Although I know that someone who doesn't do this and looks at it from the outside, it seems complicated, but we also see the possibility in the farming community of how they can use professional consultants, how they help farmers create each form, and we have to admit, Ákr. This is precisely the purpose of the withdrawal from the scope of the scheme, which is the sui generis system, so that farmers can carry on the usual way and draw this money in a simpler way. [[18.10]] The promise and responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture to continue to monitor, of course, the opportunities, processes that take place in agriculture, take place in the farming community, and all the changes that are made to ease their lives and to complete their professional work, will continue to be promoted with further amendments. Dear President, thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-28-218	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend individual laws in relation to defence issues until closure. The government referral is T/18544. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2017-11-28-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The proposal before us contains provisions which, on 1 January 2018, enter into force, are essential to maintain the coherence of the legal system. Like the previous law, it is about adapting to the Act on General Administrative Rules which will enter into force on 1 January 2018, the Act on Administrative Rules of Procedure and the Law on New Civil Procedure. The government must guarantee the consistency of the new laws governing the functioning of the public administration and the existing legal system, so that these technical clarifications will be carried out later this year. The topics of the bill can be summarised below. On the one hand, it amends the Law on the Status of Patriots in two respects: on the one hand, it amends the procedures relating to the establishment and continuation of the accident contribution and the establishment of the relationship of diseases with service obligations, in the light of changes in the new legal environment, while on the other hand establishing the basis of law that the service relationship can be established without carrying out a full fitness test, if otherwise there are no other grounds for exclusion. Of course, the full competence test should be carried out in this way, but it is sufficient to carry out it even after the contract is concluded, so that the entry can be accelerated. The other law, which is amended by the bill before us, is the law on procurement for defence and security purposes. The three aforementioned laws, which will enter into force on 1 January, have substantially reformed the basic rules on administrative procedures, and accordingly the rules on remedies in defence and security procurement procedures should also be adapted to the new legal provisions. The changes concerned, on the one hand, the provisions of the review procedures for the arbitration procedure of the Public Procurement Committee and, on the other hand, those which could be brought against decisions taken in the course of its proceedings. The aim of the proposal is therefore to ensure that the legal system is consistent with itself from 2018 so that, as with the procedures covered by the Public Procurement Act, procedures for procurement for defence and security purposes go hand in hand with state guarantees and regular remedies. If you think your goals are the same, please support the bill before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-220	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-28-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, After an exhaustive discussion of a number of items on the agenda, we have arrived at T/18544 on the amendment of individual laws in relation to defence issues. The general debate of bill No 1. Defence is a priority area for all countries, and we can even say that it is one of the most important. Our country and Europe have been in serious danger for years, which, in short, we call illegal migration. Without documents and any identification documents, millions of people are storming Europe from the South and the East, which only Hungary has been able to stop all over the continent; no matter what, because the government is pursuing a well-thought-out migration policy, which is based on the fact that those in need of protection will be accepted in accordance with the relevant international procedures, but those who wish to illegally cross Hungary's borders without identifying themselves only for a better living will be rejected in the strongest way. Thanks to this migration policy, that is to say, actions related to the protection of our country, the cessation of migrant price data storming our land like locusts, the Eastern Railway Station or even the II. Pope John Paul's tent camps occupying space, or crowds of people flowing uncoordinated on the highway. After this brief introduction, I would like to present to you in a few sentences the substance of the bill before us. In its essence, it can be said about the bill that, although it contains many amendments, a large part of them are intended for internal, national harmonisation and are all technical amendments with improved intentions. The entry into force of these amendments on 1 January 2018 is essential in order to maintain the coherence of the legal system, in particular with regard to the entry into force of the Act on General Administrative Rules, the entry into force of the Act on Administrative Rules and the entry into force of the Civil Procedure Act. In addition, the bill is the 2012 CCV on the status of military defenders. By amending law, it clarifies and flexibles the rules of procedures relating to the establishment and continuation of an accident benefit for domestic soldiers and to the establishment of the relationship between diseases with duty obligations, which is undoubtedly a positive amendment. It will be done, as the Secretary of State said, on the amendment of the 2016 Act XXX on the amendment of procurement for defence and security purposes. It is also a technical amendment to the Act, since the laws on the above mentioned general administrative statute and administrative order reform the basic rules on administrative procedures, in which the rules on remedies in defence and security procurement procedures should be adapted to the new legislation. There is also a need to mention the different terminology use of new laws, and these changes should also be transposed into the Defence Procurement Act. Overall, we can therefore conclude that we have a number of legislative proposals with positive and necessary amendments before us, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-11-28-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. After this dramatic fidesz speech, which was not dramatic, but dramatic, it was simply difficult to speak. I really don't understand, I don't mean to be personal, my fellow Members, but do you find one of 131 Members who can at least read a paper, other than that it would be okay if you understood, and could we perhaps argue about what this bill is about? But I will try, at least from our point of view, to tell my fellow Member Vas. This bill basically has two aims, if we can see it correctly, and this was also revealed in the expozee. One is that I would like to adapt the law on military service and defence procurement to the new administrative statute and administrative order. However, there is another one that says that I would like to ensure the possibility of establishing a military service without carrying out a full competence test. We also understand the first aim, because it is the innumerable law, which is presented to Parliament, due to the entry into force of the new procedural laws. However, it is less understandable why the conditions for the establishment of a military service should be amended. [[18.20]] We ask the Secretary of State to explain what the real purpose of this amendment is. Are you trying to relax on the psychic or physical requirements of soldiers? Is it not that the military field is not attractive to young people, or that their recruiting campaign has finally failed to deliver? On numerous occasions, we have drawn attention to the disastrous consequences of the harsh restrictions that the Orbán government has imposed on the Hungarian Defence Forces during the 2010-14 cycle. Due to the hundreds of billions of HUF withdrawal, the unprecedented shortage of staff and the depreciation of assets reaching critical levels, the Hungarian Defence Agency's state of affairs is nothing but unattractive to potential applicants. In this overall view, even the salary increase after 2015 has not been able to substantially improve. After several years of leasing, the increase, expressed as a percentage, was not able to achieve the desired effect. In the case of crew members, salaries remain uncompetitive, especially when faced with strict duties of service and significant restrictions on fundamental rights. Obviously, the fact that the police and the execution of sentences are intensively recruiting does not make it any easier for the defence, and all recruitment campaigns are, as a matter of fact, trying to reach the same target audience. So, we understand the difficulties, but the solution is certainly not to reduce the level of requirements. In a sharp situation, the lives of soldiers may depend on whether their peers are physically, mentally fit, prepared for the ministry. In addition to improving the competitiveness of payments, the only solution would be the development of the Hungarian Defence Forces. Money is important, but it is not the only aspect of addressing and keeping young people who are really ready to act. To this end, for the comprehensive modernisation of the Hungarian army, the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the European Parliament and of the Council adopted a resolution on the implementation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union and on the implementation of the Treaty A modern force that radiates strength and dynamism can only be truly attractive to young people. The Hungarian Army should become a force in which it is cool to serve, which, by using the most modern techniques, can provide a unique opportunity for motivated professionals. Unfortunately, the Hungarian Defence Office is very far from this ideal situation, Mr Secretary of State, and there are few indications that the government would be aware of this serious challenge. However, the reduction of requirements cannot be achieved, and such an amendment must not be supported with responsibility. The other stated objective of the bill, as regards compliance with the new administrative procedural law, is also strongly negative. On numerous occasions, we have explained that we already disagree with these procedural laws. We did not agree that the Orbán government has returned to the regulatory logic established in the 1950s and beyond the adoption of the current procedural law in 2004, i.e. it will create a set of laws in each area, which will certainly not be followed by the stakeholders or citizens. One of the phases of this, one of the moments of this, is that right now they're going to do this job in the defence area, if you will. But our rejection position in the defense procurement law is even more pronounced. The law on defence procurement adopted in spite of our protest in 2016 is not for repair, but for disposal. We claim this despite the fact that the law contains procedural rules with embarrassing detail and shows the image of freedom of competition and transparency at first reading. However, as early as spring 2016, in the parliamentary debate, we pointed out that this was merely an illusion, in a sense, a scam. In fact, the law opens the loopholes wide with many exceptions and derogations. In the end, they empty the entire regulation and open the way to putting the dogs in the position of their buddies. Unfortunately, the many scandalous decisions of the year and a half since then confirmed our criticisms at that time. The exceptions can be interpreted so widely that, at the last meeting of the Defence and Police Committee, ammunition procurement was justified by the fact that by circumventing the Defense Act, one of our very famous law enforcement agencies would have to obtain it at the time. Therefore, we will not give our support to the cosmetic amendment of the Defence Procurement Act; we are only willing to support the creation of a truly fair, competitive new law. Finally, once again, I would like to know these two things clearly from the Secretary of State. Do you really believe that it is probably because of recruitment, the uploading of the army, which we have demanded of you every year in a proposal for a resolution and in a bill of law to do in a way that moves some predictable and serious resources, if I remember correctly, two years ago, that there was a shortage of more than 20 percent in the army... - and you want to remedy that now, if we understand correctly, that you will hire soldiers without a physical and psychological survey and investigation? I may not be so, but I will be very curious about your answer, but if so, then this is a life-threatening path, Mr Secretary, I can say again, and not only admit that it does not work, but also a step in a direction that is simply unacceptable in this area. I don't know how you think in the long term this defense will work if you don't have to meet the most basic physical and psychological requirements for applicants who apply. We also see the problem with the police, I referred to it, the same problems in the prison system in recruitment. The problem with filling up police, border police and border hunting centuries is that people applying without graduation are rejected, because that's the rule, by the way, quite rightly. It seems to me that they have been unable to upload police personnel for almost a year and a half now, which is funny because I remember that in August they announced that in three months they would be on duty with 3,000 border fighters, which was obviously ridiculous then, so in the light of a year and a half, it would certainly be. But, for God's sake, Secretary of State, don't go in the direction that if you can't find young people, girls and boys of good quality, prepared, physically and psychically suitable, to serve your country armed, you will be reduced by the standard system, and you will also be able to find out later that you won't know what to do in a given situation, specifically in a firefight or under any other pressure, and you will be endangering not only your own life, but also your fellows' lives. We hope that this proposal is not about that, and we very much hope that it can justify why this proposal is not about that, although I do not see much hope for that after its exposure. Once again, we are sitting on the Defence and Police Committee, and can no longer be followed, Mr Secretary of State, it is almost impossible to follow that every single case is brought in by the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Defence for the discharge of public procurement. The last case I said, the acquisition of ammo, it's ridiculous. Mr. Secretary, what can you get under the Defense Act if you don't get ammunition? What else can you get? Then why do you have that law, tell me honestly? ! And once again, when this law was passed, we said that it contains very beautiful, beautiful phrases, only at the end of the law there is this huge gaping hole that they can bypass the application of the law with such exceptions and procedures that circumvent the text of the law, that it is practically a waste of paper and letters, that they were thrown together in a law and written on it as a defense procurement law. Therefore, we cannot support the bill in this form, but I would like to wait with great respect, Mr Secretary, for you to resolve our doubts regarding physical and psychological fitness, please. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-28-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Firtl Mátyás, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-11-28-225	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The T/18544. The draft law amending individual laws in relation to defence issues aims at the compliance of three relevant laws, concerning the legal status of national defences, procurement for defence and security purposes, as well as administrative order and administrative procedure, on the one hand, with harmonisation obligations and, on the other hand, with clarifications and detailed rules, on the other hand, on the third hand, to bring the legislation so far into line with the rules on procedures and lawsuits that will enter into force in 2018. [[18.30]] The 2012 CCV on the status of soldiers. The amendment of the Act affects, on the one hand, the conditions for the establishment of a service relationship, with amendments made with a view and purpose which may result in more flexibility in the application of the rules on the entry into the professional register. The proposal provides the legal basis for the possibility that, if the grounds for refusal laid down by law do not exist, the service relationship may be established without full competence examination. I stress that this should be possible in the absence of the grounds for refusal laid down by law. Furthermore, the purpose of the amendment is to refer in this context to the ministerial level of regulation setting the procedure and the eligibility criteria. In addition, the amendment affects the detailed rules on entitlement to an accident benefit under the law on compulsory health insurance for members of the staff in relation to the obligations of the service, which it also makes necessary clarification. As a further part of the amendment to the Act, Article XXX of 2016 on procurement for defence and security purposes The aim of the legislative act is to revise the rules on remedies, with a view to the entry into force of a number of relevant legislative changes on 1 January 2018. The amendments to the legal obligations that have been amended in the meantime are justified by the 2016 CL on general administrative rules. Law, the Akr. , Act I of 2017 on Administrative Rules, CXXX of 2016 on Civil Procedure. in the field of law, it is done by amending the law before this House. The Akr. And KP. - administrative procedures and administrative litigation - a new set of rules is established by the amendment, which also significantly affects, inter alia, the rules of the law on procurement of defence and security procurement, in relation to the sustainability of so-called uniform litigations, which requires reform of the rules on defence and security procurement remedies. Those laws have substantially reformed the basic rules of administrative procedures, the rules of Vbt on remedies in defence and security procedures had to be adapted to the provisions of the legislation containing non-refusal provisions. The changes concern, on the one hand, the provisions of the appeal procedures for the KDB and, on the other hand, the provisions of the appeals procedures for decisions taken in the KDB's proceedings. Third, the amendment of the law before us includes the amendment of Act L of 2017 amending the Act on General Administrative Procedure and certain laws relating to the entry into force of the Act on Administrative Rules. Dear House, It has already been said: defence is a national matter. This is valid for all aspects of defence, and it is important to emphasise this in the Hungarian Parliament when discussing all laws relating to defence issues. That Hungary is one of the safest countries in the world today, because our soldiers protect our borders, protect our families, our homes, the security and peace of our settlements, and serve peace and security throughout the world. That is why we should thank all Hungarian soldiers, Hungarian soldiers, who today undertake and fulfill this profession and mission in order to protect the nation. That is why it is important what my fellow Member has said before me about the difficult conditions under which it is necessary to secure that number of people or the difficulties that may result in them being able to secure the Hungarian Defence Office. That is why the government strives to express its appreciation to the soldiers, and part of that is that it fully supports their work by means of law, to recognise and appreciate as much as possible the continued development of the army, defence, improving the living conditions of the soldiers and a predictable career, respecting the military profession and strengthening its planning. It should be noted that Plan 2026 Zrinyi serves the same development project and program that has started. Of course, the performance of the national economy always limits how much we can improve with the Hungarian Defence Office. We, as I said, in the Defence and Police Committee are, of course, trying to ensure that we can spend as much as possible on these purposes, and those exemptions from certain public procurement are exactly what we are in fact agreeing on several times so that we can really provide the defence with the development opportunities that are currently being made possible as quickly as possible. In view of this, the KDNP fraction is T/18544. It recommends to this House the adoption of the bill amending certain laws in relation to defence issues, and in this way I am trying to get the negative position before me to consider, if possible, that what has happened in the past has indeed been served by the Hungarian Defence Forces. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-28-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the representatives of the factions if anyone else would like to take the lead speaker's speech. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I ask if any of my fellow Members wish to apply for a two-minute or normal speech on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] No one wants to take that chance. The general debate is closed and I will ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to reply. [[For signal:]] Yeah. [[Péter Kónya: Mr President, I apologise, there was an entry for an independent comment.]] Excuse me, Congressman, which is why I asked if anyone would like to live... [[Péter Kónya: I am a pre-arranged speaker in writing.]] Congressman, I accept your signal with due respect. Of course, since your intention to speak was not in writing, you have the right to press a single button, and you have the floor, even a normal one. [[Péter Kónya: I already pressed it, Mr President.]] Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-11-28-227	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry, but I was informed by the Registry that I was accepted and included in the list that I first applied as an independent Member. That's why I didn't tell you.
u2017-11-28-228	Congressman! With due respect, I'll count the time frame, inform you that this can't happen to me, my documents don't include your intention to apply. But that's why I asked. You have the floor.
u2017-11-28-229	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Then I'll clear it up with the memo office about what happened, because I've been informed that everything's okay. But I'll get to the point, change the law itself. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this amendment covers three major topics. One is to bring the rules of the administrative procedure into line, and I would not want to deal with it, because I think that this is somewhat automation, a natural necessity for the amendment of the law. Indeed, there is a part of the amendment to the law on procurement for defence and security purposes. Here or there, allow me a thought or two. I would also refer to my fellow Member, Tamás Harangozó. I can say that my military experience has also shown that there have been huge problems with this since the change of regime, and the public procurement in the Hungarian Defence Office has been constantly soaked with corruption. It doesn't matter which government we were talking about, let's just think about the oil-bending cases, then the incurrency sales and other acquisitions, whether during the Yugoslav War or in the subsequent period. Now, on the basis of terrorism and the migrant crisis, the procurements of the Hungarian Defence Forces are constantly being removed from open public procurement, which involve suspicion of corruption. I'm not saying that they're all drunk, but they're taking a number of purchases out of open purchases and encrypting them, which makes it very likely that there might be abuse here. We hope that there will be another prosecutor's office and that there will be further investigations that will shed light on what purchases may be made. I remember when you took over the steering column in 2010, you started by saying that the defence wallet was a huge abuse during the previous government period. They did, too, and unfortunately, they hit walls, although I would have been delighted if the people involved in these corruption cases were going to prison, and I trust that if there are such people under your government, they will also end up in prison. [[18.40]] I would like to turn to the most important issue, to which my fellow Member, Mr Bellozó, has also drawn attention. I would like to read what you have written in detail as a justification for Article 1 (1). in respect of §:. The proposal aims at establishing the legal basis for the establishment of a service relationship without full competence examination if the grounds for refusal laid down by law do not exist. The proposal refers to the related procedure and the conditions of competence to the ministerial level. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It's written here that you can explain in detail. Do you know what the rule of justification is? We write down what, how, why. The only thing missing from this justification is why. Why is this amendment necessary? My ringing fellow Member asked this question, and I myself, when I took this amendment into my hands, was simply shocked, and I did not understand the need for such an amendment. I understand and I can imagine, of course, but that this opens up horribly harmful ways and brings to ice the future of the entire Hungarian Defence Service, which I expect a detailed explanation, Mr. Secretary of State, of why you think so. I would like to say, and I do not know how well you are aware of the fact that in recent months there has been practice in the Hungarian Defence Office, that basic training of soldiers, contract soldiers, such as basic training in August, basic training of contract soldiers in August, that the date and planned duration of basic training had to be extended by one week, because a significant part of the incoming soldiers did not have the necessary medical, psychic and physical fitness tests. While some of the soldiers had it, another part didn't have it, so an extra week was required to extend the basic training of the soldiers, so to speak, a zero week was introduced. As a result, 62 out of nearly 120 soldiers took vows at the end of the basic training. Tell me, Mr. Secretary, what's the point of bringing people like this in? Do we want to reduce the Hungarian Defence Service to a social institution? Because I am aware that I do not know if you are aware that the soldiers - so to speak soldiers - have gone, that I am going to stay another day or two, because until then I will be paid, and in the meantime I will receive care. The Hungarian Defence Office is not a social institution, Mr. State Secretary. Soldiers are not to be brought in to get warm and come in to receive food for a few days and care for a day or two. The Hungarian Defence Office is a much more serious institution than to make the Hungarian Defence Office a social institution. And to let me in like that, think about it, Mr. Secretary. In civilian life, if you go to a company or a company because they advertise a job interview, they determine in advance the conditions under which you can apply, if you do not have these conditions, they will not even talk to you. Compared to this, the Hungarian Defence Office, which is a dangerous factory, we let people in, they're there for a week or two at the basic training, we'll put a gun in its hand if necessary, without the proper physical and psychic ability, endangering their fellow soldiers there, and we'll let them into a system without knowing if they'll otherwise be fit. What is the reason why they want to change the previous order, when they first had to carry out a physical survey, they had to perform psychic, medical tests, a simple aptitude test, and then we brought them in and recruited them for basic training? In addition, it will cost the Hungarian Army a terrible amount of money, which we throw out of the window, because these people will be equipped when they go in, they will receive the basic equipment, and then we will remove them in five days, because they will turn out to be unfit for health. Mr. Secretary, I understand that you have a problem with recruitment, a terrible shortage of numbers and a terrible fluctuations, but you should think about why. If we can't get competitive wages, we can't give the soldiers competitive conditions, then unfortunately, that's where we're going. But the solution to that is not to take the terms down and lay down conditions that will allow anyone to come out of the street, and then we think we're gonna turn him into a soldier! Why don't you talk to the trainers? By the way, they're extremely overwhelmed by the unfortunate, because in continuous rotation, they do nothing but form the incoming file, and then half of it is fine, and one third is fine. They complain horribly, and if they make this system even easier, they will be even more overwhelmed, and they will be dealt with with completely unnecessary material - in quotes - by trainers who will never become soldiers and are burdened. We can filter this out, Mr. Secretary. Why should we bring people like that in for nothing? I don't want to get into it, because obviously there is a social problem with the physical and health condition of young people today. I've had the pleasure of several times over the past few years to see who the people in Szentendre go into the barracks and then come out tonight. It crossed my mind that so many fighters and so many fighter pilots had not yet been in the Hungarian Army, because in my period, only those who went in as a fighter or a fighter pilot could go in at this height and physical condition. Unfortunately, most of today's youths do not meet the physical requirements that should be met as soldiers. This is not your fault, it is a general social problem, but the solution to this is not necessarily to let people in, but to create competitive conditions in the Hungarian Defence Office. Perhaps you should consider that one of the attractive and sustaining institutions that you terminated in 2011 was precisely the service pension system that allowed people to be brought in and kept in the system, which you ended with a feather stroke. Perhaps it would be advisable to revise their views and consider perhaps bringing this element in, bringing it back again, which might keep the soldiers inside. So I, too, would like to have the answer, Mr Secretary of State, to what is the cause, and I do not want to go through the time that the police have had to live in the period following the change of regime. After the change of regime, it was finally brought in in in the early '90s, that only those who had a diploma could go to the police, unlike the socialist period. This has finally ceased, and relatively intelligent and increasingly intelligent people have become policemen, which, by the way, the citizen has experienced on the street. The so-called cops disappeared, the police could talk to the policeman, the police officer turned to the citizen in a civilised manner, and the citizens became more respected and appreciated the police staff. Then, in the early 2000s, a law amendment was introduced that, oh, we couldn't hire enough policemen, so let's stop tying the police record to graduation. Then you could see how the police's stock and quality began to deteriorate. We don't want to do the same thing in the military. We belong to an alliance, and we are rightly proud of our soldiers, by the way, of the position that Hungarian soldiers do in the NATO bond. Let us not take this in the direction of destroying quality, rather than improving conditions, so that we can keep the soldiers and bring them in. I have one more question, which is only partly related to this amendment, but I'm still interested. According to my information, there has been a comprehensive amendment of Hjt within the wallet, which is now planned to be brought in to discuss, but this has been removed from the agenda. What was the reason why this comprehensive HJ amendment was not brought before Parliament? Thank you for the floor.
u2017-11-28-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As I have withdrawn the conclusion of the general debate, it is now possible for Congressman Attila Mesterházy to have a two-minute speech. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-28-231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, By reading the law and listening to the debate here, this amendment is a bit like - I'll tell you what aspect - what happened in the case of the Foreign Affairs Act, that the government, by the way, created a sectoral law as the right objective, we looked forward to it with great expectations. [[18.50]] Then it turned out that 90 percent of it was a transfer of previous government decrees, or, to say the least, a law of the sector, and that was not the case. But what makes me bring in the Foreign Affairs Act is that, in many cases, this law also says that these rules, and by the way, you can actually exempt and exempt everything from the rules. This is also apparent here in the case of the Defence Procurement Act, that there are actually rules, but the rules can always be overwritten, broken, and, in fact, any rules made can be avoided - but then why do they have rules? So you have to say that everything has to be handled individually, and then it's much simpler, because you don't have to make so many snowloafs around here. In front of me, Peter Konya commented, and I think there's a lot of truth in what he says. One thing I can accept is that there are situations in which open procurement procedures cannot always be applied in the defence area, in the area of security policy, but this does not mean that without a neck you have to insist that this is in the interest of national security, and that from then on everyone does what they want. So in Hungarian, I think we need to produce the law not for exceptions, but for general regulation, for systemic regulation, and that can only be an extreme case when we deviate from the general rules. And I completely agree with Peter that in the military, if physical preparedness doesn't matter, then I don't really know what matters. So an interesting soldier who would otherwise be physically unfit for anything else is just not enough soldiers right now. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-28-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask if anyone else wishes to exercise their right to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to follow Mr Secretary of State that the order has been a little upset, but I think that the Member in Parliament should always have the opportunity to speak. Dear Secretary of State, I'll ask him if he wants to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-28-233	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving all the Members who wish to speak an opportunity. I think it's the right thing to do. First of all, I would like to reject the personalizing words of Tamás Harangozó to my fellow Member, Imre Vas. If Congressman doesn't want to be personal, then don't, please. It's as simple as that. What you said, Congressman, I am reminded of earlier socialist campaigns that the well-established socialist tactic was that what the Socialist Party wanted to do in the campaign quickly accused its opponent. So when you point back to why, what difficulties we have been facing since 2010, you should really point back at yourself, you should point back to your party and your own faction, because all the problems and problems that we inherited in 2010 are the result of your 2002-2008 governance. [[Attila Mesterházy: And that was last year?]] Because they've wiped out complete non-weapon cultures, destroyed the Hungarian Army. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] What is now being called for, for example, in the case of medical fitness, should not have been taken into account in 2003 when the line obligation was lifted, for example, the institution for assessing medical fitness. Then we would now have knowledge of the health, physical and psychic condition of young people. I would like to reassure you that this change does not mean that these standards and these requirements will change. The same requirements, all in all, are to make life easier for applicants by not running from a doctor's office to a doctor's office, often taking a lot of miles, but by doing so, not as a social institution, but as a serious defence. By the way, I think it's not exceptional, it's a practice elsewhere. What the Member said about recruitment, as well as Congressman Kónya, said that we are in difficulty: these difficulties are also due to the government of you, but we have raised your responsibilities, the retention force is increasing, the number of young people and contract soldiers applying to the Hungarian Defence Office is increasing, and we want their number to continue to grow, so we are doing everything we can. This is why we have the Zrínyi 2026 defence and military development programme, which, on the one hand, strengthens the relationship between defence and society and thus brings soldiers closer to civilians, and we encourage and help young people, if not professional, if not contractual, to apply for a voluntary territorial reserve. The Defence Procurement Act was established by the European Union's legislative harmonisation, by requiring the European Union system that you, in other cases, praise and view as almighty. Indeed, it could also be done under the Public Procurement Act, and EU harmonisation did not allow this, and the exemption in itself, of course, is not a violation of the rules. If Mr Péter Kónya is aware of corruption, then I would ask him to contact the appropriate bodies, to press charges. You don't have to suspect and detect corruption and wave it in the air, but if you have any knowledge, I'm asking you to go to the police. [[Dr. Imre Vas intervenes.]] I still think that this bill, which lies before us, creates harmonisation of laws, so that the two laws, the Hjt. and the Defence Procurement Act creates legal harmonisation with those three other laws. This is our law on the Parliament's table, this is what we have submitted, no laws off the agenda, this is our bill submitted, and I ask you to support it with your vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-28-234	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time to speak after the agenda. An independent MEP Péter Kónya applied for a post-meeting speech. I give you the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2017-11-28-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm glad it was in the system at least. Now I've looked into it, and my colleague said that my previous speech was in the system, but at least it worked. Thank you, Mr President, for your flexibility, and I will take care of this. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, - who stayed in the room. I asked for the floor after the agenda because today, on November 28, 1708 there was a major event in our country. ANNEX II On this day, Ferenc Rákóczi called the National Assembly in Sárospatak during the war of independence. And this Parliament has taken decisions and decisions that have significantly defined the life of our country, and they also say that perhaps one of the most important parliamentary decisions in the fight for freedom has been made at this assembly. [[19.00]] This Parliament lasted from 28 November until 20 December, and during a period of bloodshed when our country became divided, we were decimated by freedom fighters and traitors. Perhaps there was a very significant event, since during the parliamentary assembly Imre Bezerédj and Lieutenant Colonel Ádám Botka were executed, they were both soldiers, and they were about to be deterred during the parliamentary assembly and executed in the square by these two soldiers who betrayed their country. At the same time, the most significant decision was that Ferenc Rákóczi recognized the possibility that the country should be protected, that the nation should be united for the sake of the country, and that therefore every man and every hand holding a weapon should be needed. That's why the National Assembly brought it in. On the proposal of Ferenc Rákóczi, the decision to release the serfs, all soldiers who took arms during the war of independence and held weapons, created the legal possibility that these serfs would then be released from the jurisdiction of the landlord. Why did I think it was important to mention a few words about this today in the walls of Parliament? Mr Vas also said in his previous speech on the agenda that, by the way, there is practically a freedom fight, that our country and our freedom are being threatened, and that migrants are endangering Europe as a whole. At that time, there was a freedom fight. I do not say that there is a freedom fight today, obviously it is important to say this to the current pro-government Members, but it is a fact that our country is unfortunately very divided politically, and we would need a leader like Mr II. Ferenc Rákóczi, who recognized the need to join forces in order to move the nation forward and get it out of the crisis in which he was at the time. There was a prince of Hungary who realized that the most difficult line of people should be helped by releasing him from the right line. Unfortunately, no one thought 300 years ago and 300 years ago that today Hungary has regions of our country where many people are not legally in a better position, but are in a similarly vulnerable position, such as the serfs of the time. Similarly, they are in a very difficult situation, and in Hungary, the small kings again raised their heads, who otherwise have the same rights and rule as the landlords of that time. I think that we need to learn from the word of the past, and I would like to learn from history to all Hungarians and to all my fellow Members in the Parliamentary horseshoe here, as a lesson. The example of Ferenc Rákóczi. I would like to see Hungary today as the leader of Viktor Orbán as well as II. Ferenc Rákóczi was 300 years ago. Unfortunately, it is not possible to say this about Viktor Orbán, but one thing is certain that the country is in a very difficult situation right now, and we need one of those leaders. Thank you for listening to me, and in one word, I would like to say goodbye to you with one expression: "With God for the country and freedom!" That was the motto of the Rákóczi Freedom Fight. Thank you for listening.
u2017-11-28-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting on Thursday at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 7:03 p.m.]]
