u2017-06-12-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 34th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our dear guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán asked for a speech before today's agenda on the subject of the national consultation. I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
u2017-06-12-1	Good afternoon. Ladies and Gentlemen, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian government launched a national consultation in March, the consultation was closed, which was the most successful national consultation to date. I asked for the floor to report to you on the results of the national consultation and its consequences. We, who stand on European civil foundations, believe that people in our culture have the judgment that is necessary to understand, consider and decide important issues. This assumption and belief is a necessary and even essential basis on which democracy can and should be built. A nation can only build its future on the system of democracy if it believes in the sobriety and sense of responsibility of its own citizens. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes.]] That is why we civil, national and Christian democrats have introduced the method and institution of national consultation. This is good practice, because it gives people a chance to express their views not only once every four years, in elections. Since 2010, Hungarians have been consulted on important and fundamental issues from time to time. Our goal has never been hidden, we wanted to establish memoranda of understanding; we wanted to establish points of understanding that would allow people, their elected parliament and their government to act with a common will. I am convinced that this is the foundation of Hungary's achievements today. That's why we managed to rescue our country from the financial disaster. That's why we managed to curb prices. That's why we managed to give hundreds of thousands of jobs. That's why I managed to raise the wages. And that is why Hungary has been set on the path of economic development. I'm not saying that the agreement can ever be 100%, that is, complete. This is hardly possible in a free society. But I can say [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] how it can be so majority and powerful [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I don't think you're talking about Hungary.]] which gives us the authority to view it as a national position, that is, the position of the Hungarian nation and people. We know that the surface is noisy, babbling and arguing every day. And we also know that serious things are formed in the deep, slowly and thoughtfully. And deep down, this House, over the last few years, has formed a new unity, a new national unity, a spiritual, political and action unit; a thought that has become a political programme, and which, if necessary, inspires us to act together. This idea unites the Hungarians and puts the Hungarian government at the forefront of this programme and action. This is the idea: we want Hungary and Europe. Ladies and Gentlemen, At present, we are living in a time when, in Europe, the mainstream political class, which holds power as a subjective right, brands the questioning of voters as populism. Even today, we Hungarians are surprised again and again. We grew up on the legacy of Lajos Kossuth [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. Ildikó Borbély: Oh, my God!]] And we thought that this was a valid inheritance on the other side of the Iron Curtain; I quote Lajos Kossuth: "All things for the people, all things together with the people, nothing of the people above the head of the people." It is a painful lesson that this has gone out of fashion in Brussels. Dear House, Five consultations have been initiated since 2010. The facts show that people are increasingly interested in public affairs. They've got an opinion, they're making a sound. Academic, Useful, and Benefitful [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes.]] That a nation and its elected government are so tied up in one string. We started a series of national consultations in 2011, with the new Fundamental Law, followed by the social consultation and the economic consultation in 2012. In 2015, we asked the voters about immigration, and this year we asked about Brussels. Ladies and Gentlemen, As a reminder and as a lesson, I recall what matters we have decided so far with the Hungarian people. In the context of the national consultation on the new constitution, citizens returning the questionnaire have insisted that the Fundamental Law should also be about civic obligations in addition to rights. Today, this principle is the strongest pillar of the Fundamental Law. In the context of the social consultation, citizens who expressed their views requested that the state limit the private interests of public utility operators, which resulted in a reduction of the costs. In the same consultation, two thirds of the people voted in addition to the need to provide state aid to foreign exchange lenders - a currency-credited lifeline. Nine-tenths of the people in the economic consultation said: [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] The need for a fair burden-sharing between the state, large companies, banks and people - a system of multi-taxes and a law on the accountability of banks. [[10.20]] In the context of the economic consultation, respondents said that companies that create new jobs should receive tax relief, which became the action plan for protecting jobs, whereby companies received a targeted contribution allowance. The job protection action plan already covers nearly one million workers. In the national consultation on immigration, 90 percent of participants supported the tightening of immigration rules. Nine-tenths of those who returned the questionnaire wanted stricter rules on the basis of which immigrants crossing the Hungarian border could be detained, and that is the case today. Ladies and Gentlemen, Hundreds of thousands of people have expressed their views in every national consultation that has taken place so far. So far, the social consultation has been filled out by most, 1 million 140 thousand, and the current figure is 1 million 680,000, so it is an absolute record well above this. For the sake of clarity, 94 percent of the fillers chose postal return. Ladies and Gentlemen, Until today, until the beginning of the last week of our session, we have processed 1 million 400 thousand questionnaires. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: And the Russians!]] The facts are as follows: those who have expressed their views have consistently stood in favour of protecting the reduction of the rent; almost all those involved in the consultation want to keep illegal immigrants under surveillance until the authorities decide on their case; there is a clear consensus that illegal immigration activities such as smuggling and the promotion of illegal immigration should be punished. Ninety-nine percent of the fillers believe that we should oblige organisations supported from abroad to register themselves and undertake to act on behalf of which country or organisation in Hungary and for what purpose. In terms of job creation, people have taken the view that we Hungarians must continue to decide on the future of the Hungarian economy. The proportion of those who believe that we must insist in the future that we Hungarians can decide on our tax system is also overwhelming. Dear House, The majority of Hungarians therefore believe that Brussels is sitting on the opposite horse today. Most Hungarians think [[Zoltán Grimlock: What is the majority?]] We cannot allow Brussels to take control of us; we cannot allow it to force resettlement programmes on Hungary, nor can we allow it to interfere with the definition of taxes, wages and fees in Hungary. Ladies and Gentlemen, I also have to say that many people in Brussels are outraged at why we say that we should stop Brussels. The answer is simple: because we do not want to give Brussels more power. The European Union is not Brussels, but a voluntary alliance of independent European nations, this European idea, this European people's common plan for peace and development. Hungary is not anti-European, it has never been [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Only the government!]] on the contrary, we represent a true European position: we are defending the European Treaty in force, including the original division of labour between the Member States and Brussels, which is today. The Hungarians' position has not changed; we are still committed to the European Union and the original European plan. As far as we can see, Brussels has changed its sarcasm. In Hungary, it is incomprehensible that Brussels is openly on the side of terrorists. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The whole town!]] Ahmed H.'s obvious nonsense lies are more important [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The Brussels bakers too?]] as the security of the Hungarian people, and this is unacceptable to us. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It is a city and not the European Commission!]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Nor can I tell you that the absurd situation has arisen that in Brussels today a financial speculator who will bring millions of people into poverty will determine where the advance is. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Are you talking about Hungary?]] European leaders bow to György Soros, who tells us what Europe needs to do, and for some reason this seems natural in Brussels. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It's a good thing he paid you too.]] If someone really wanted to help millions of unfortunate fates in the Middle East and Africa, he wouldn't be funding a network of political activists disguised as human rights fighters out of millions of dollars, he would be building jobs, schools and hospitals where it is needed. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] If anyone really wants to help [[Zoltán Gőgös: We are building a stadium, not a hospital!]] Then take the help there, and don't bring trouble down on us. Ladies and Gentlemen, I ask the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament to stand in the debates between Brussels and the Hungarian Government, not with Brussels, but with Hungary. I ask the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament to stand on the side of the Hungarian people in the debate between the Soros-mafia and Hungary. [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Please, no Member is going to cut down the tree, because the person who supports immigration is the one who breaks down the fence, the one who would plant migrants with unknown pasts, unknown identities and unknown purposes on Hungary. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: There is no such thing in the country!]] He acts against the people, the Hungarian nation, or Hungary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Grimlock: Can anyone come for money come for money?]] Therefore, I would also like to make it clear on the occasion of the conclusion of the national consultation. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What about the settlement bond?]] As long as I am the Prime Minister of Hungary and I can stand here, the fence will stand at the southern border. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Grimlock: Everyone can come for money.]] As long as Fidesz and the Christian Democrats govern the country, we will not allow the blackmail of Brussels and reject the compulsory resettlement quota. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Then why was he voted?]] As long as the civilian national side gives us back, the country will be protected, and we will protect our success with hard work. And as long as Hungary is democratically founded, we will not accept that Brussels stealth away from our national laws, because Hungary is a strong, proud European country. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Andorra too!]] [[10.30]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The protection of Hungary is not a theoretical and ultimately non-ideological issue; the game is literally on our shoulders. It should therefore also be said that after seven sweaty years we have also achieved significant economic success, so there is something that could be put at risk, so there is something we need to protect. Minister Mihály Varga will give you more details on the economic situation, and I will limit myself to what is most important. In seven years, instead of the aid-based economy, we managed to make a bed for the work-based economy. Employment has grown to the greatest extent in the European Union in Hungary over the last seven years. While Hungary had the second lowest employment rate at the end of 2009, it was already above the EU average by the end of 2016. In a European comparison, Hungary came up from the 27th place, and I believe we can get further ahead. Since 2010, we have had the third largest increase in the minimum wage in Europe, i.e. it is more worthwhile to work in Hungary. The average wage in the economy has increased by 13 percent annually. According to recent facts, health at an annual level is more than 19 percent, the construction sector is characterised by 15 percent, the social sector and the public administration are characterised by a 14 percent wage growth rate, and the wages of those working in education have risen again, now by 8.5 percent. The 15% and 25% increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, which is a matter of fact, have had a significant impact. There has been a unanimous view of the economy and a substantial wage catch-up. Ladies and Gentlemen, As usual, if we work, there are results, the Hungarian economy showed 4.2 percent growth in the first quarter. The functionality of the Hungarian model is now recognised everywhere, and so far those who have expressed negative feelings and concerns about us. Each financial and economic centre constantly increases and improves its forecast of the Hungarian economy's prospects. Even on the basis of its own forecast, the European Commission considers our country one of the five best growth economies in the EU. The growth rate of the eurozone economy, which is 1.7 percent, is now more than twice as high as the Hungarian economy. Ladies and Gentlemen, I will not go further, Minister Varga will explain the latest facts in detail. I just wanted to say that Hungary is in orbit and we have every reason to be confident. We have a future again. These results have been achieved on a national basis, following our national interests. I suggest that we do not risk what we have achieved for the sake of some vague utopia, call it European united states, an open society or anything else. We learned because history taught us that what we fight is ours, we fight ourselves. And we have plenty of historical experience to know how easy it is for us Hungarians to lose everything if we put our fate in the hands of others. On the occasion of the most successful national consultation so far, we cannot accept that our future is planned in Moscow, Brussels or Washington. [[Moraj on the opposition side.]] We make decisions about us in Budapest. And that's not a recommendation, that's a million seven hundred thousand people's expectations. Dear House, The strengthening of illegal immigration in Italy, the increasing pressure on the Hungarian border, the recent terrorist attacks in European cities make it clear that Europe's number one test remains on migration. Despite the obvious fact of popular resistance in Brussels and in the Member States, the pro-immigration and the migration crisis are also forecasting the delay of their plans to relocate millions of migrants to Europe, as George Soros advocated in his public plan. It would not be good for this to lead to a narrowing of our horizons, perspectives and perceptions of reality, as other, also serious European issues have appeared on the horizon. It is sufficient to draw your attention to the fact that the jobs of thousands of Hungarian truck drivers are still at risk because of the bad employment rules imposed by Brussels. If we do not stand on guard and stand up for our economic interests, this threat and practice can spread rapidly to other industries and can seriously affect Hungarians working abroad and abroad. I would like to inform my fellow Members that we need to prepare ourselves for the autumn debates on the future of Europe. Hungary is and will remain a European country, a member of the European Union, and therefore the debates on the future of Europe are also debates on our future. The elections in France at the end of the week show that the rebellion of Europeans has reached France. The old elite's parties, socialists and popularists were simply pushed off the field. In September, we will pass the German elections and we can expect the two continental powers to attempt to transform Europe. It is not yet clear whether this will help or complicate the enforcement of Hungarian national interests in Brussels. Today, we can say that the scale and depth of the experiments that we are facing, which are transforming Europe, is wide and deep. This is indicated by the fact that Brussels has already published a document on Europe's possible future directions, and then published proposals for reform in four volumes on social affairs, deepening economic and monetary union, European defence policy and then globalisation, and the fifth package of proposals on the future of the European budget is coming soon. We are facing serious debates, serious negotiations, and the consequences will be long-term. What I can tell you today with certainty is that the national consultation took place at the very best pace, and at the most appropriate moment, it struck down the beacons between which Hungary must go and may be in the debates ahead. I thank the Hungarian people for helping us with our work with their participation in the consultation, and thank you for listening. [[A big round of applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-2	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your speech. Dear Parliament, After more than 20 minutes of the Prime Minister's speech, the leaders of the political groups have eight minutes to express their comments. According to my monitor, Congressman Bertalan Tóth, the head of the MSZP faction, has the floor first. Here you go.
u2017-06-12-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It was extremely exciting to listen to the Prime Minister when he spoke about a free and European society, just when Parliament is going to vote in the last few weeks and this week on legislative proposals that are clearly against freedom of education, are clearly about stigmatizing and restricting the functioning of Hungarian civil society organisations, and this week Parliament is going to adopt a budget that is unfair and a budget for corruption. [[10.40]] Gergely Gulyás himself gave his opinion on the issues of the national consultation in an interview these days that it could not actually be taken as a representative opinion poll, because the questions were so clear, to which only clear answers could be given, that this would actually be a stand-up to a government policy rather than a real national consultation. But it would be worth discussing the positions. And I agree with him, because the question is whether Hungarian voters, the Hungarian people, really consider these questions to be the most important in their lives. Why didn't this national consultation about the education system, the injustice of education? Why didn't this national consultation on health care, the untenable state of health? Why didn't this national consultation tell us how to bring back hundreds of thousands of young Hungarians to Hungary, who left this country for a better living? We've seen, we've heard, how great a success your program has been to lure them back. And why didn't this national consultation of stadiums, and especially from the point of view of how much of taxpayers' money we spend on this? - while the performance of the Hungarian national team at the World Championship Qualifier was seen by everyone, which, unfortunately, is also the failure of your sports policy. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] And let's talk a little bit about the real issues of this consultation. They want to protect the cost reduction while today the international market shows that energy costs should be reduced. While other countries are reducing retail energy prices, this is unchanged in Hungary. We can talk about saving foreign exchange credentials, as Prime Minister said, but what about the families, the tens of thousands of families who can't even pay their forinted credit, and they're evicting them, they're auctioning their house. And we could talk about anti-multilateral taxes. Interestingly, Prime Minister, you did not mention that the income tax of the multinationals, companies with a turnover above HUF 500 million, was reduced by 10 percent, while Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises are barely able to raise the costs of the increased minimum wage. And we could talk about what you've put out so long and justified, the question of the fence and the defense. But then I will ask you how it can happen that while your background people, your economic people, are making hundreds of billions... and with a settlement bond, nearly 20,000 people have been granted residence or residence permits in Hungary from countries from which people are building the fence and who they want to stop. The paid migrant, the rich migrant is good for you, good for the country, you said it was good for your backup people, while they're guarding the borders with fences. And then it is worth mentioning what you said at the end of your speech, this so-called production conference, I used to call it that, since you tell me the numbers, but the reality behind it is very little said. For all analysts, everyone knows and says that the development of the Hungarian economy is based on EU subsidies. Hungarian investments are almost entirely funded by European Union funds. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] For this reason, I cannot understand the password "Stop Brussels!" because Brussels is still standing, but European Union funds are useful, which is indeed the basis for Hungarian economic growth. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] What's behind the numbers? What about the distribution of income, how fair is the distribution of common cake in the budget, how can the benefits of a large tax reduction be enjoyed by the rich, while the small earners do not? How is it that the minimum wage tax exemption has been abolished, VAT has been increased, and one of the highest taxes on small earners in Europe? How is it that the total tax rate has increased over the last seven years? While you call yourself the government of tax reductions, tax burdens have increased in recent years. [[György Balla: That's not true.]] Why is it that maintaining the Hungarian State [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Is the operation of the Hungarian State significantly more expensive than before? We've heard of all kinds of apparatus cuts and reforms here, and it's costing the state more than that. And how is it that while hundreds of billions of people get to visual sports, while Tao money is used to finance various sports, all kinds of small kings rule different football teams, and the result is a humiliating defeat in Andorra. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Andorra fairy tale country.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I rarely do this, but I would like to thank László Kövér and Zsolt Semjén, as they remind me of St. Laszlo's actions, this year they initiated the Memorial Year of St. László. But what were the most important provisions of St. Laszlo, what was his most important message? One is that he may be the first to say that justice should be done, the thieves should be punished. Back in the day, the thief's hand was cut off for stealing. In 1077, the guy who stole it got his hand cut off. [[István Szilárd Németh: You have no legs.]] In 2010, Zoltán Pokorni, your vice president, promised the thieves the same thing. Compared to this, Zoltán Pokorni has already been replaced, Szilárd Németh came instead, for the joy of all of us, and your oligarchs have been robbing Hungary for the past seven years. [[Interviews from Fidesz: Sukoro! Subway four!]] If we play along with the idea of what would happen if these laws were in force, where would Lőrinc Felcsút Ripper be? [[Moore in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Where would the Foams be, Rogans, Tiborczok? Where would they be? ! And there was another important policy for St. Laszlo: he always felt and knew that allies should be sought in the West, not in the East. On the other hand, we can see that the operation of Hungarian civil society organisations is restricted to a Russian sample. We can see that with this huge national consultation the data of the Hungarian people could be transferred to the Russian secret services, because it was received by a company that is connected to them. And we can see that the Hungarian people's money will be burned in a Russian nuclear power plant. I wonder if St. Laszlo would rule today, how about this? Ladies and gentlemen, We need a fairer Hungary and a Hungary that is the first in the European Union, not the periphery. Thank you for listening.
u2017-06-12-4	I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Vona, leader of the Jobbik faction. Here you go.
u2017-06-12-5	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Thank you very much for the report. Let us start by saying that, according to Jobbik, it is also very important to listen to people's opinions, to know people's opinions and to take people's opinions into account in our decisions. That is why last year we initiated a national consultation, a genuine national consultation, on three issues. [[Dr. Bence Retvári: Whose money?]] : on health care, education and corruption. We have received the opinion of half a million people on these three areas, Prime Minister, with much less resources, much less media, much less opportunities. Then I would also like to tell you and you, fellow Members, what was the result of this, what people have said about these three areas. On health care, Prime Minister, and education have been said that you have abandoned these two sectors. On the other hand, corruption was said not only to abandon corruption but also to make Hungary a regional and even continental leader. And unfortunately, I have to say, people were right during this consultation. You have abandoned health and education. For example, in health care, hospital debt was regenerating, and when the competent Secretary of State was recently asked in the press how this could have happened, he said that I did not know. The state of the primary care needs to be looked at: hundreds of GP practices are unfilled in Hungary, and the corpus refers to the growing stock among GPs. There's no supplies, there's serious problems, Prime Minister, and you're avoiding the issue of health care as a devil in incense smoke. There are many problems with education, too, but I suggest we move on to corruption, because, as one of your senior advisors has said, that is the essence of your governance. András Lánczi said that when the opposition talks about corruption, it is essentially the essence of your governance. And that's true, Prime Minister. In terms of corruption, you have made Hungary the leader of the world, unfortunately in a negative sense. It has been said here many times, from my mouth for the first time, and you almost don't deny in Parliament that Lőrinc Mészáros is actually your personal stooge, Prime Minister. Lőrinc Mészáros doesn't collect wealth for himself, but for you, Prime Minister. [[10.50]] The wealth of Lőrinc Mészáros, the sudden increase of 100 billion dollars, is not due to the genius of Lőrinc Mészáros, but to your political protection and your political support. By the way, Lőrinc Mészáros is the entrepreneur who constantly absorbs the EU funds that have been mentioned here several times, but how we can best assess his performance: if I ask you, Prime Minister, please, and perhaps in your reply, please answer me about the export performance of Lőrinc Mészáros's companies, if they are so competitive. How much did Lőrinc Mészáros know of his knowledge, his economic performance, the know-how he gave this world to export? Who else in the world wants to ask for Butcher Lawrence, except us? You are giving him most of the EU's resources, which basically means increasing his own wealth. So unfortunately, in your governance, Prime Minister, corruption is not a malfunction, it is not a human weakness, it is the whole point of governance. This is nothing more than a mob government, and the head of this mob, Prime Minister, is you personally. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] Why are these three areas important: health, education and corruption? Because this can provide the basis for the human capital and the competitiveness that will enable us to stop the most serious problem, the emigration, which will enable us to make the Hungarian economy competitive, Hungarian businesses; and we can finally pay competitive wages and incomes at European level. This is what our wage Union initiative is about, which you do not support. Our Wage Union initiative is symbolic, by the way, because when you were condemned in a resolution in the European Parliament, the European Commission approved this initiative the day before, i.e. legally and professionally, in all respects, it found it appropriate to launch a debate on this at European level. Prime Minister, you're used to making all kinds of arguments that you can't do it overnight. We have never said this, and we know that this is a complex issue, and we know that it takes time, we know that state civil servants, employees of SMEs, employees of multinationals are in a completely different situation; we also know that in order for wages and incomes to rise, we need competitive Hungarian businesses; in order to become competitive Hungarian businesses, we need a completely new cohesion policy and EU fund allocation policy and a new European Union. With our proposal for a European Wage Union, we wish to participate, in a positive sense, in the debate on the future of the European Union, and that you do not support this initiative, Prime Minister, which has brought together all of Eastern Central Europe - eight countries have backed this up, eight countries from Eastern Central Europe want the European Union to be a just, social and solidarity community, as the European Union promised at the time of our accession - but you do not support it, Prime Minister, and I will tell you why you do not support it; although you obviously know it very well in your heart. You don't support this initiative because it's not yours. You're incapable of supporting anything, anything that's not your personal property. In situations like this, you act like a kindergartener: if I can't have the sandstone, then let that sandbox be destroyed, let no one have it! Prime Minister, the European Wages Union initiative is about what the 21st century is about. In my opinion, the most important sentence of the century, or its key goal, is to enable everyone to thrive in their homeland. The Syrians can thrive in their homeland, Afghans can thrive in their homeland, Sudan can thrive in their homeland, and all Hungarians can thrive in the Carpathian Basin in their homeland. But in order for that to happen, wages and incomes must be increased. And please don't answer the arguments that we didn't say, but explain to me, clearly, why you can't support this proposal. The other, Prime Minister: we also consider the issue of security to be important. If Jobbik wins the election in 2018 - and it will! - Then the fence will remain. [[Moors and interrogations in the pro-government benches.]] But the border guard will be there, Prime Minister. There will also be border guards, because we have said that neither poor migrants nor rich migrants can enter Hungary. We're not gonna sell settlements for money, we're not gonna do dirty business with Pharaon-type people, just like you did. [[Viktor Orbán wags his head with a smile.]] And don't be surprised, Prime Minister, I saw on your face that you were surprised, so don't act like you didn't do business with Mr. Pharaon. They did it in front of the whole country, Prime Minister, so you're trying to play this game for nothing. The other, Prime Minister, we will not allow you to build the future on your obsessions in Hungary. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Misconceptions!]] Because the security of Hungary must be guaranteed, it must be protected from migration, it must be protected from migration, but it must also be protected from your obsessions, Prime Minister. For many years you have been unable to predict the country's right and true future, vision, you have not been able to lead this country properly for years, only to keep power. The two are different things. The proper leadership of the country and the holding of power are two separate things, Prime Minister. You are focused on keeping power, and you see George Soros and Lajos Simicska everywhere. If a letter flickers, it must have been George Soros. If the Hungarian net is in Andorra, it must have been Lajos Simicska. Prime Minister! These are your inner voices. These are your demons. If you want to fight these inner voices, do it, but don't drag the country into it. And when you say that we've been bought, that Jobbik has been bought, you're starting to think of yourself as you live. You sold your soul, Prime Minister, at the very beginning of your career to George Soros! [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] Don't project your own demons on us; we didn't sell our souls to anyone, neither George Soros nor Lajos Simicska will control it, but your obsessions won't control it. We say that Brussels must be used and used for our own purposes in order to create a fair, solidarity and a free Europe; but who must be stopped, Prime Minister, who knows? That's you! Viktor Orbán [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He needs to be stopped and his obsessions stopped. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-12-6	We now have the head of the LMP Group, Mrs Bernadett Wind, here we go.
u2017-06-12-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, While I was listening to your speech, I was wondering what the purpose of this speech was, because I finally came to the conclusion that this could be a sort of washing that you would be obliged to do every six months, but then you said that you would eventually see terrorists in Brussels, and from now on I think that you really did get the drug. I do not think that such a style is appropriate for Hungary. [[There's a riot in the benches of Fidesz. The president's ringing the bell.]] We're talking about our allies. We are talking about our allies in the European Union. I don't think we should be terrorizing the people you're sitting at the same table as you're sitting at a meeting of Heads of State or Government. Especially when I see that you promised national governance to the country. Instead, we see practically a never-ending national consultation, which, by the way, is called the Yandex consultation on the street, Mr. Prime Minister, because there was a Russian code running on the online version of the entire consultation. We will never really know who, how many people and exactly what they have completed in connection with this consultation. From now on, I can tell you one thing, Prime Minister, that when you respond to the speech of the group leaders, tell us what the Hungarian government explained about the fact that the Hungarian government has provided the most personal political opinion of Hungarian tax-paying citizens to Vladimir Putin. Mr. Prime Minister, Is this how you prepare for 2018? I now see in you a prime minister like that Uncle Dagobert from cartoons whose eyes the dollar sign was constantly flashing, but for you, not the dollar sign, but rather the ruble or the euro flashing in his eyes. If you were brave, you would not hold national consultations, but rather write out the Paks referendum and ask yourself what the Hungarian people think of your Moscow dream and amok run. The fact is that we in the opposition clearly see what this story is about. The story is that you, after you've exhausted the EU funds you and your friends are stealing, then you need a bigger money transfer, and you want to get it from the East. Apparently, this story is built in such a way that by the time the EU funds are exhausted, there will be the Eastern loan. Mr. Prime Minister, Do you think that's a moral attitude? Is that what you promised the Hungarian people? In addition, you are a rather peaceful Prime Minister of Hungary. This country has no peace because of you. Practically now he's starting a series of mirage wars where you are, and where your colleague, György Matolcsy. The CEU, Brussels, the Soros network, everyone is listed here as an imaginary enemy, even though I think that the Hungarian people agree without any consultation that if it attacks the CEU, it does not make much sense, rather, it should strive to have an excellent education system throughout the country. With regard to Brussels, all I can say is that if you have so many problems with Brussels, then why do you accept your money? [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And the third is, if you're talking about the Soros network, you're talking about the Paks network. I think that the Paks network, where billions are already missing, is much more relevant to the Hungarian people. By the way, if you're gonna text George Soros to build hospitals, you're gonna have to send a message to your own ministers first. Oh, you don't have a health minister? ! Well, then send a message to whoever you think it is. He's gonna build hospitals. We chose the Hungarian government to ensure that health care is in order, education is in order, wages are in order! Where is this, Prime Minister? He's nowhere! I'd like to share some scenes with you from the real world. I was out at the paramedics protest. There a mother told me that she was buying her son white T-shirts for Christmas, and she had the paramedics' sign printed on them because they couldn't get the Hungarian paramedics. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] There are homes for people with disabilities. The Hungarian government is constantly in violation of the law because they cannot grant permits continuously, so they extend it, because, Prime Minister, we do not have the personal and material conditions. But I'll tell you one more scene from the real world, put that on the paper. In the nursery, parents can't leave their children, because the daycare lady cleans up instead of the cleaner, because the cleaners have already left this country. And by the way, the same parent doesn't dare go to his sick child on vacation because he's afraid he's gonna get fired from work, where he's gonna get fired for criticizing Fidesz. You built a country like this, Prime Minister. So if you're going up there on the bench, please tell me what you're going to do with these people's fates instead of your wars. [[11.00]] There is not only a national consultation here, but there is now a thank-you and result campaign. Prime Minister! Tell us how much this cost the Hungarian people! They won't stop at five billion. For example, there is the Minister of Propaganda, and we also know that Antal Rogán has an explanation for why the MVM put half a billion forints there for the CÖF, who later admitted that they would post a poster for this Fidesz, of course, in addition to the development of complete and civilistic science, which obviously doesn't make any sense. But there's you and your ministers who offered an election alliance to a criminal. Basically, Flórian Farkas should be behind bars, and you'll be preparing with him for 2018. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But there is also János Lázár, who admitted on the EU support day that 5 percent of EU funding goes to your four main oligarchs. That's 500 billion forints. What are you doing with this money, Prime Minister? I think that this speech was part of the election preparations, where you practically talked about how you would stun Hungarian people even more with all kinds of wars instead of solving problems of everyday life, which would be acceptable to a government. But you're mistaken, because you and your government were elected not to consult us, but to govern us. Where's the government's performance? ! [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén laughs.]] Technically, when I look at you, I want to talk about issues that affect people. If I were Prime Minister of Hungary [[Uproar and clarity in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I would not consult on what I am interested in, but on what Hungarians are interested in: health care, education and how there will be good wages in this country. You went out as Prime Minister, and you said that the Fidesz saved the Feds. All I am saying to you, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, is that if Fidesz protects Hungary in the way it protects foreign exchange creditors, then, oh, this country. He was talking about supporting the multinationals. In this regard, I can only tell you to make sure that your Minister of Economy gives me the numbers of exactly how much money has been added to the Hungarian strategic partners for individual tax incentives. I've been suing for this for years, they won't tell me. Until that happens, I'm going to think that you're pursuing socialist traditions. By the way, I would like to draw your attention - perhaps your entire government has missed this in recent years - to the fact that there is a shortage of labour in Hungary. So employment statistics at this level should not be dealt with, but should be dealt with so that Hungarian people can stay home. This requires wages, proper working conditions, and should be treated as human beings. These three don't happen at Fidesz. With regard to the bank tax, I don't know what you're talking about, we green people have been saying the Tobin tax for quite some time now that speculative capital movements have to be taxed. And you did nothing but, under the leadership of Antal Rogán, you hit the banks, who passed it all on to the Hungarian population. Well, thank you very much. With regard to the tax system, I agree with you deeply, we need to create a tax system that most Hungarians think is good for them - but it is not the one-key one. Even before 2010, you knew that a multi-key tax system was needed. I'm telling you to return to yourself before 2010 or say good-bye to this country. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] 'Cause we've had enough of the perverted redistribution, we've had enough of the scamming of the rich, and we've had enough of the tax dollars being given to Lőrinc Mészáros, Tibor Garancsi and all the other oligarchs behind your back. When I look at you, Prime Minister, I see a task. I see that in this Hungarian policy there must be a complete exchange of lines. 1. We don't need to keep and support a government who's turning our money into a consultation instead of a government. We don't need this. 2. From the mouths of billionaire government members, it is not credible to help the Hungarian people's problems. You're uncredited. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] 3. CHAPTER XXI You're afraid of the century, but we feel this century, and we understand it, and we're prepared for it, and you're not. Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of the LMP. Dr. István Simicskó towards Dr. Zsolt Semjén: He breathed twice...]]
u2017-06-12-8	Now it's time for Mr. Péter Harrach, leader of the Christian Democratic People's Party. Here you go.
u2017-06-12-9	Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, Dear fellow Members, I'm trying to talk about the consultation right now, because maybe that's what we're talking about. I am sorry that so far we have heard speeches full of slippings and tasteless remarks fired by a desire for power, which was a manifestation of an Orbán phobia. What can you say about the consultation? It is a genuine democratic institution that assumes the judgment of Hungarian citizens. This goes against anti-democratic efforts to encourage citizens to act violently, regardless of the outcome of the elections. I have a small event to remember here. DK criticized the court in a form which is unacceptable in a democratic country when it threatens the decision-making judge. We have all met a decision that we did not like, and then we can say that I do not agree with it, but I do accept it; but it is certainly not that I will avenge it in the possession of the desired power. Therefore, the consultation on the reduction of tariffs, illegal immigration, transparency and other issues is a democratic institution. If I may, I would like to highlight a few questions. It's a relief. We have just heard that Europe is being reduced, and we are not reducing it. Well, we have reduced it thoroughly, and if we look at Eurostat's opinion and order, we should see that they also say that the fourth lowest Hungarian energy price in Europe - and not only in the EU - is the fourth. Or let's look at an important issue, the issue of illegal immigration. Allow me to present the Christian Democratic opinion, which builds on three fundamental aspects. What are the three thoughts? One is to help those who are persecuted. The second is that the country must be protected. The third is that our responsibility has circles, concentric circles. These three should be applied at the same time. Those who are persecuted must be helped. If you look at the recent manifestations of KDNP, you will find that you have done much to protect Christian communities in the Middle East, our European representative, as well as the Hungarians. Why the Christian communities living there? Because we have our universal responsibility in concentric circles, in the framework of universal responsibility, we must exercise this responsibility by doing so in the knowledge of our energy, and if there are groups that are naturally close to us, then we must start with them. That is why the Hungarian government also gave support to Christian communities in the Middle East through their collection. The country must be protected, this is the second fundamental aspect. I think it is clear that what the government and the majority in Parliament have done to this end must continue to be done. Here comes the thought that George Soros and his friends represent; this goes against the interests of Europe. I do not know what he would say, say, György Soros, if he had to live in the no-go zones for a week, he would experience - if he survived - what the unscrupulous introduction aspect meant for Europe. Allow me to continue these questions, not only on illegal immigration, but also on the issue of transparency. When we distinguish between real civil society organisations and fake civil society organisations, we do the same thing when we distinguish refugees and immigrants, because the basis for good thinking is the right distinction. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Like the COF!]] The real, genuine civil society organisation is always built from the bottom, taking into account social needs. A network is built from above on the basis of a political aspect. We do not want civil society organisations to be properly screened, but organisations who are not civil society organisations that only wear this dress. [[11.10]] The thing is, the wolf is in sheep's clothing, and that must be prevented. When we look at the issues of consultation and what we have just said, it is the issue of national sovereignty that we must pay particular attention to. We support the real original European idea, which is actually the idea of the Schumani, because the great thinkers and politicians that founded the European Union were thinking in nation states, whose sovereignty remains, some of them are practiced together, but they practically remain an independent state. This is what is at risk today, and that is what part of the Hungarian opposition and international organisations are taking action against. Finally, perhaps one thought deserves the idea, if you will, of a world view that is behind the two pursuits. We are in favour of a civil-Christian national idea based on a human image and a social image, and communities, living and organic communities, have a significant role to play in this social image. On the other hand, today's mainstream thinking, in many cases, the media supports an approach that has no place for natural communities, builds on the individual, and that image of man and society is a threat to our future, and this is very well reflected in the issue of illegal migration. I think that everything that was in the consultation serves Hungary's future [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and in this the Hungarian people made the right choice. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-12-10	I now give the floor to the head of the Fidesz Group, Mr Lajos Kósa. Here you go.
u2017-06-12-11	Mr. President. Dear House, It is not easy to argue that the opposition simply completely overlooks the facts and realities and claims a series of things that are completely absurd. If someone is to read back the minutes and try to understand what my fellow opposition group leaders have been talking about, then you can see that there is such an amazing contradiction in each of these lectures that it is not even possible to respond in detail to all of them. I would only draw attention to a few, mostly just to make it clear what the question of credibility in this debate is. Each of my fellow group leaders described corruption with dramatic words, and even the leader of the socialist faction summoned St. László here. Let us now overlook what the socialists have to do with St. Laszlo, our true Catholic, Christian knight king. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. Lajos Korózs: More than you! Agnes Kunhalmi: Nothing for you!]] But they mentioned his rigor in the matter of the theft. Then let me ask you a rhetorical question. Tell me, how many parts of Simon Andras should have been cut off when he ran away with hundreds of millions of dollars. [[Interview from the ranks of Fidesz: Gábor Simon!]] Or excuse me, Gábor Simon? [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Problems with details!]] Tell me, about the Sukoro case, what kind of physical abuse would you have done? Or how many socialists on subway 4 should I have, I don't know, destroyed? [[Dr. László Kács: Exterminate? Moore from the ranks of the MSZP.]] It seems to Bertalan Tóth's quote of St. Laszlo is a form of suicidal tendencies, and I didn't tell him everything then. We know that in the EMIR case - we remember that the socialists brought it together - we have to pay back 18 billion; it's all on the soul of the Gyurcsány couple. What's the punishment there? Or are you about to make some kind of collective suicide in the context of some political ritual of the Socialist Group? And Péter Medgyessy's Alztom case, the $60 million gift to the woman? Don't forget these cases. It was initiated by the various anti-corruption authorities of all European countries, it has nothing to do with the Hungarian government, only we are the ones who are paying the debt, because we Hungarians have to pay it back. But it is also strange to hear corruption from Jobbik's mouth when we can now respect not only a virtual traitor in the case of Béla Kovács, whose immunity was granted by the European Parliament on the charge of espionage, but now we also find out that he also bends down for the little one because he simply goes to Brussels to steal. Now, in your second immunity case, it turns out that you stole 12 million with different fake contracts from the European Parliament. Let us not forget that it is the real corruption scandal - which, I can safely say, is unprecedented in Hungarian political history - that a billionaire, Lajos Simicska, took on a complete political party [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right! Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: After the Fidesz! He sold one of them cheap and bought a smaller one! What's in this?]] a complete political party. It will be very easy to make sure that this is true or not. I want you to vote here in Parliament for a law prohibiting the black money of parties, and it's about to come out who supports corruption and who doesn't, and you just have to press a button. But we know that not only does Jobbik have a problem with the push of the button, but also the leader of the faction, because let us not forget that on the most important issue, the country voted against the constitutional amendment in defending the country. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks.]] And one can only say that, although I must admit, it is pathetic to explain that, let us say, one of the most important issues in the matter of unification, the granting of dual citizenship to the born of the Hungarian nation, in which Gábor Vona, together with Ferenc Gyurcsány, did not vote, let us not forget! He said he was at the cafeteria. [[An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] Obviously, the buffet is more important than the unification of the Hungarian nation. But then he himself said that everyone who doesn't vote for the amendment of the Constitution was a traitor, and then he didn't vote for it completely with Jobbik. After that, taking seriously any of Jobbik's speeches on the matters that we have heard from Jobbik is rather ironic. I would like to draw Gábor Vona's attention to one thing because he mentioned this European wage catch-up: it was not very convincing, was it? Because the Ozd Group voted against Jobbik's presentation of European wages, the Ozd Group of Jobbik. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. Dóra Dúró: It's not true!]] So you couldn't convince them that this was a serious proposal. For the record, it is not, because when someone thinks about it, we have heard from Gábor Vona several times that the continuous increase in the minimum wage is a terrible burden for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, while otherwise wanting to increase wages by three times. If we try to resolve the two, the only thing that comes out is that Jobbik, as a proud national party, is going to go to Brussels and hammer to pay the increased Hungarian wages, Dear Committee of Brussels. It will not work, fellow Members, because everyone who bases the wages of the Hungarian people on the fact that it will be paid by someone in Brussels is chasing an illusion that can only be cheated on. I therefore believe that the ideas of the leader of the Jobbik faction about the fate of Hungary are more than frightening. You must tell you that Brussels will not increase the wages of the Hungarian people, even if we hold a referendum on this. Overall, I think that what came out from the consultation initiated by the Hungarian Government, because we are still at this debate, is clear as day. The country must be protected. It is clear to everyone that this opposition cannot be expected. The country will not be protected by the opposition. If the opposition comes to power, hundreds of thousands of migrants will come in. Hundreds of thousands! The opposition plays from the scores of billionaires, the result of which is that the country will be lost. [[Dr. László Kács: It's not the result, it's the end.]] So if someone's safety is important, they should consider voting for the opposition twice. On the other hand, all the manifestations here, which mean economic policy and Hungary's economic situation, come up with one thing: a tax increase. Jobbik's tax increase is clear to the sun, and more such proposals have already been tabled, which is clearly the result, because, by the way, the higher wages will obviously not be paid by anyone from Brussels, and we will only be able to do so by means of a tax increase, which is not in the interest of the Hungarian people, because what we take out of one of our pockets would want to put in the other at a reduced rate. It's a bad policy. [[11.20]] But we have also heard from LMP several times that they want a tax increase in the multi-key tax system. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's terrible!]] when it was the lowest tax rate in Hungary, it was 35 percent, and 70 percent of taxpayers felt it. [[Intruder from the benches of the LMP: Don't count, Louis!]] 'Cause that's how many people paid with the lowest tax rate. And I just want to say to Bertalan Tóth [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell. Nándor Gúr: Sit down!]] that tax burdens have decreased in Hungary, but tax revenues have increased [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: Sit!]] Because the economy has grown. It's that simple. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Very good, Lajos!]]
u2017-06-12-12	Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in return.
u2017-06-12-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm struggling with the disturbance of abundance, so much has been said here... [[Nándor Gúr: A little louder, you can't hear!]]
u2017-06-12-14	I'd like your tech guys to help me with the sound. Thank you. [[Orbán has a portable microphone placed in front of Viktor Orbán.]]
u2017-06-12-15	[[Your microphone's back on line.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm struggling with a disturbance of abundance, so much has been said here that we can debate these issues all day long. I'm gonna try to put some kind of system in these comments. Perhaps I would first like to say a few words about the general quality of the debate. First of all, even though everyone was trying to shoot their arrows at me, I'd like to remind you that you're not arguing with me. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Oh!]] It's a consultation involving 1 million 700,000 people. You may not like the opinion of 1 million 700 thousand people, but that is why it is not worth being angry with the governing parties or the Prime Minister. [[Zoltán Grimlock: For you the 630,000...]] Please live with that, it's a country like this, people think that, that's what they want. And don't be angry with people; what people want doesn't coincide with your party politics. That's why you're in opposition. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] I also have to say that it's hard to listen to what they say, not what they say, but what I've heard in these walls, more like what they say. I see there's a contest here that's supposed to be about who can say and who can be more unparalleled. Congratulations on that. What I see is that the conditions here, within the walls of this House seem to be deteriorating. At first, when I heard the first so rude and subpar sound here, which mocked all previous Hungarian constitutional traditions, I thought that they were actually telling us all this. I've even been looking for a real thing. But I gotta tell you, after a while, you realize you're not telling us all this, you're not addressing us, you're competing with each other. The name of the competition: who will be the strongest opposition party? [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: It's not that!]] I understand this is a serious competition. I have to say that we have also run in this race, but such a thing as sinking the house of the Hungarian parliament and constitutional tradition to such subpar standards, we have never allowed ourselves to do so. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP, among them: Oh! Oh, no. Ágnes Kunhalmi: * Shut the fuck up! * that's the quality!]] Ladies and Gentlemen, About the specifics, perhaps, that as far as corruption is concerned, I suggest that everyone obey the laws, and then we will be all right - right, Honourable Jobbik? [[Dr. László Kács: If not, we will change the law...]] As far as St. Laszlo is concerned, as the dimensions of the debate have expanded, it is not my place to make up for high school history lessons. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: They teach it in primary school, not only in high school.]] He is a historian of the MSZP faction, better than any of us on this side, perhaps he will, but if we are talking about St. László and the unilateral Western orientation, then some correction should be made, and perhaps the historian of your faction with international reputation and respect for Hungary will tell you that St. László has given his daughter to Byzantine Empress by chance, and not by chance. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] And he also had the sense that there is not only a German-Romanian Empire, and that the border of Hungary and the globe and Europe do not end there, in the South, but behind it there are powers that are sometimes called Islam, or Byzantine, or Russian Empire, when they call it what. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Szent István's...]] And there has never been a serious Hungarian king in this country who suffered from western blindness. [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: That's right!]] I don't think I have to tell you all this. I think the faction of the MSZP may be able to correct this distorted history and faulty St. László interpretation from its own power. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Szent István's letter? Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] As regards the issue of corruption on the part of the MSZP, I agree with my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa. I think that the party who feels Sukoro's case belongs to him could speak with more modesty about corruption. [[Intercom from the benches of the MSZP.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Several people spoke about the issue of EU aid. I may not be in a position to correct factual errors, but perhaps it is worth mentioning the hurtful attitude that the LMP people have given several times here in this House. So, that's -- I wrote it down so I wouldn't say it too harshly. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] - a servantly, beggarly, and pious pace, as you speak of European money, is not compatible with our thinking, and I do not think that, since we are talking about St. Laszlo, it is not compatible with Hungary's self-esteem. [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: That's right! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Butcher...]] The fact is, we do not receive a single penny as a gift from the European Union. The thing seems to be just to make them feel the scale of things, because I think they may be talking about this issue without knowing the scale, that the total Hungarian national product can be estimated at about EUR 35 thousand in GDP and the European Union's support is about 2 thousand - just to detect the scale, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out to you that the European Union is put together in such a way that we, who entered later, enjoy no advantage. The Union is assembled with the Westerners looking for us. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: All we need is our money...]] It's true, if we do it right, we'll make money on them, and the two things can balance out. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Commissioner Ripper and his friends.]] That is what we are trying to do, and I think that we are broadly balanced. Our government does not want to protect the current division of competences between Brussels and Budapest by accident, because, in addition to the current division of powers, there is a possible European Union policy on Budapest that can balance the money they make on us with what we make on them. But if they change the powers, if they take us to Brussels and there is less left, then we will not be able to maintain this balance policy, and we will get to the point that they are the only ones who will be looking for us in the end. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: And the Butcher Lawrence! The balance is not here!]] This must be prevented and this is why Brussels should be prevented. This is a way of thinking, where I think that, based on real funds, we can establish relations with the European Union with sufficient national self-esteem. Koldustempo, koldusztempo, pauper culture - it is not worthy of this House and it is also unworthy of Hungary. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Stealing... Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, [[István Gábor Bellozó: I think you are unworthy!]] As far as the Wages Union is concerned, I repeat what I said earlier, that we are not initiating a Wages Union, we are raising wages. From the initiative of the Bérunion, Hungarians did not make any more money with a HUF. On the other hand, the government policies of the Fidesz and the Christian Democratic People's Party have the potential to make more money as a result of significant wage increases. Forgive us, we want to rely on the Hungarian government's wage increase of its own strength instead of the onion-based pay union. Ladies and Gentlemen, Mr President, The Socialist Party told us what really should have been consulted about, why we didn't ask people about this or that. I'll keep it quiet here that while you've been on the government for eight years, you've never launched a consultation. [[Dr. László Varga: You've been steering for seven years! Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: How much did this consultation cost?]] There you could have been smart about how and what to do, and it's worth asking people. So, since they haven't been asked once in eight years, giving advice in hindsight, it's a little bit shabby - isn't it, ladies and gentlemen? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: spending 4.5 billion for unnecessary consultation...Dr. László Varga: Former referendum, then allowed...]] As regards the downgrading of the number of participants in the consultation, I would be more careful here than the socialists. I would just like to remind you that more people have participated in the consultation than have voted for the Hungarian Socialist Party. [[Dr. László Varga: Very good! Dr. Bence Rétvári: Or they will ever... Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] As for safety, let's talk straight. The Hungarian Socialist Party has not hidden or hidden its ideas on the issue of security. [[11.30]] He made it clear that if it was up to him, he'd break down the fence. They said that if the left came to power, he would try to break down the fence as quickly as possible. You have also told the public that you would not have built the fence, I quote, because it is considered completely useless. In fact, they also said that, in my view, this has affected the feelings of millions of Hungarians, and I quote you: "I'm sure a man of good sense doesn't want to be a fence in the middle of Europe, regardless of his party position. Yes, you can. We want it to be a fence as long as there's a migrant threat. Ladies and Gentlemen, We also know that the Hungarian Socialist Party accepts the compulsory resettlement quota imposed on us from Brussels [[Zoltán Gőgös: We did not vote for him in Brussels, but you did. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What about the settlement obligation?]] is willing to negotiate this with Brussels and is also willing to support resettlement solutions without a cap. I don't want to interfere with any international... [[István Gábor Bellozó: Why are you lying? You're Prime Minister! Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-06-12-16	Congressman, don't be nervous. You need to control yourself, please. Here you go.
u2017-06-12-17	...in any international, socialist, internationalist cases, I would just like to remind and inform the Hungarian public that even the Czech socialists do not ask for the quota, they clearly stated that the quota system is wrong, the quotas are not working. Dear Socialists, It's hard not to wish we had such socialists. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But I'd like to reassure you that we're not going to push for a political exchange, we're going to live with what we've got - if that's what we've got, well, with this. However, I would also like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that there is an unprecedented incident here in front of us. We got to a terrorist who was convicted of a terrorist act in Hungary. [[What about the ax killer?]] Not only George Soros' mafia, he was also protected by the MSZP. So far, they've been apologizing to this terrorist, and then they've been fighting for him politically, and now they're legally defending him. I do not dispute the right of any former Minister of Justice to take on matters after his political career, but I think that there is a message that the lawyer of this particular Ahmed H. is none other than your former Minister of Justice, who is simply trying to get him out of prison, and wants to let the Hungarian people in on the subject of a terrorist act. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Where did you let the axe out? How much did you get for it? Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, We are talking about the terrorist who encouraged migrants to break the Hungarian border; this fact was recorded by the Hungarian court. They want to bring the terrorist out of prison and let him be among the Hungarians, who threw stones at the Hungarian police. They want to bring out a terrorist with the help of your former Minister of Justice and let him come to the Hungarians with seven passports found by the Hungarian authorities. [[Lajos Kósa: Seven, seven.]] Seven, seven pieces. They want to get a terrorist out of prison and let him in with the Hungarian people, who, by the way, lives and has a villa in Cyprus. Is this all right, Socialists? Ladies and Gentlemen, Perhaps you should allow me to make one more comment, because we have come to the point that Jobbik is trying to teach the Hungarian Parliament a lesson from the European idea, European integration and European emotions. Therefore, from 2013 I quote the sentence of the President, then and today's President of Jobbik, which was published in the public domain. Quote: "We would be very happy, and I very much hope that Hungary will leave the European Union as soon as possible and join forces with its true brothers. This sentence is not saved by the fact that it was said in Istanbul. Ladies and Gentlemen, In conclusion, I can tell you that I cannot draw any other lessons from the debate than that Hungarian people expect more seriousness, more respect and more responsibility from you, and I think they are right. Thank you for your attention. [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-12-18	Dear Parliament, We are now moving on to the speeches before the provisional agenda. First, I give the floor to Mr. Bertalan Tóth, leader of the group, on behalf of the MSZP; he will say what he has to say about the Great King and the Little Kings. Here you go. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] I would like to ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber quickly and quietly if they feel that they need to rest, and until then I would ask for the patience of Mr Group leader to restore the clock.
u2017-06-12-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue where I left off, and I would like to confirm my thanks again, although I rarely say this in the walls of the House, because we can remember the proposal of László Kövér and Zsolt Semjén, because the reign and legacy of St. Laszlo is exemplary for all of us. St. László was a strong man of great stature, as the sources say, he took on from among the other people, kept his great physical strength even at the age of 50, and, as I mentioned earlier, it was László who, perhaps for the first time 940 years ago, told us to do justice, that the thief should be punished. Here, let me respond to some of the sentences of my fellow group leader and Prime Minister. They mentioned cases in which criminal proceedings were initiated, but it is very interesting that there are no proceedings against Lőrinc Mészáros, Árpád Habony, Antal Rogán, András Tombor, or István Tiborcz in Hungary today, neither in MET cases nor in MNB cases. The Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office rejects every such initiative, in fact hinders the administration of justice in Hungary on political order. As I said, more than half of St. Laszlo's laws are about protecting property. We do remember that by law, it was either a hand-slaughter or a hanging for stealing. Back then, there was a strong need to protect property and stop theft. This demand still exists in Hungarian society today. As in 1077 theft was done by handcuts, so in 2010 your vice president, Zoltán Pokorni, suggested against the thieves, but my fellow Members, the problem is that the Prime Minister, the Soros Scholar Viktor, would not protect common property, but he himself is the leader of the thieves. Pokorni was set aside, Szilárd Németh came instead, and the oligarchs have been robbing Hungary for seven years now. Let's play with the idea of what would happen if these laws were still in force. Where would the Lőrinc Mészáros be, where would Rogans, Habonyok, Garanchik, Tombors, Vajnák, where would those who were rich from the theft of our tax forints and the hundreds of billions of EU? And the laws of Tiborcz, St. Laszlo, would apply to him. But, my fellow Members, László, 940 years ago, felt and knew exactly where the alliance should be sought. I do not wish to go into history class here, Prime Minister, but this foreign policy was a bit more complicated at the time, but the end was to look for the ally in the West, as our great kings generally did, and as the Soros Scholar Viktor does not now absolutely do, as he builds a nuclear power plant serving Russian interests, transmits data to Russian secret services and limits Hungarian civil society organisations to a Russian model. Ladies and gentlemen, King Laszlo was also a king of knights, a prince rich in virtues, protecting the poor, protecting the women. On the other hand, we see today that the Soros Scholar Viktor refuses to act in the case of violence against women, and casts out the poor, the fallen, and leaves him alone; blind comondo and community service, which is due to the millions of Hungarian women and the poor. Ladies and gentlemen, Next year, a Soros scholar named Viktor will be replaced by a Laszlo named László, and justice will come with the strong-armed László. The prosecution will be cleared of politics, every thief will be punished, we will restore the rule of law, we will make women equal citizens and equal workers, we will introduce minimum living standards, we will raise the wages of public workers, civil servants and we will exempt the minimum wage again. We strengthen workers' rights, doctors, nurses and nurses will finally get a decent salary again, we will restore the school's obligation to 18 years, and we will give back to schools the right to free education, and to universities the autonomy and the fidesz chancellors will be expelled. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Good!]] [[11.40]] Renewable energy will be preferred. We are launching a comprehensive rental program. We double the minimum pension and return the 13th month's pensions. I am convinced that St. László would do the same today, for our common future, for Hungary. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-06-12-20	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, has come to answer. Here you go.
u2017-06-12-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, However, the conclusion of the regime change is that the MSZP refers to saints in Parliament. We regret that, in their political activities, Christian principles are not applied elsewhere. We have listened to you many times, listened to you in this House, and every time we listen to your speeches, it confirms that it is not worth entrusting the country's leadership to the Hungarian Socialist Party under any circumstances. There are three fundamental reasons for this. On the one hand, in terms of their economic policy, they would continue in the same place where they had already left off. On the other hand, they are completely insensitive to the question of country security. Finally, what is just as important: while they refer to St. Laszlo in their speeches, their attic is full of corruption cases. In economic policy, they are making plans that have already been implemented, and the country has almost gone to waste. Once again, they wonder how to raise the key, how to hand out free money without work, and how to cancel the family support system. We already know what that means in reality, in practice, because when you left the government, you had 36 percent of the key, not to mention half-superbrutto. In 2010, the foreign exchange credit crisis began to roar, which started in Hungary. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Kósa broke down the forint!]] Because you've eliminated a well-functioning home-building program. Not least, this was the time when it was much, much better to sit at home and wait for aid than to go to work. That's why when you put down the lute, 500,000 people checked in for aid in Hungary. It's down to 200,000. Then there's the question of security. It is incomprehensible to me and, by the way, to many, how the MSZP can be so insensitive to safety. They rejected the migration crisis first. Since then, it has been debated that there is a link between the increasing number of terrorist attacks and the emergence of illegal immigration. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's why you let so many people in, isn't it?!]] They wanted to stop the quota vote the whole time. It is no coincidence, because even a few days ago, the president of the MSZP said on ATV that sometimes it is necessary to accept negative decisions for us. He said that about the quota. László Botka sent a message through a large international news agency to break down the border seal, which is currently the most important guarantee of Hungary's security. And to make it all more serious [[Dr. Laszlo Varga: You're lying!]] The MSZP voted in favour of the European Parliament - I ask you to check the protocol - a resolution attacking Hungary that protects a terrorist convicted in Hungary, who otherwise attacked Hungarian policemen with stones. Next thing I know, this convicted criminal Ahmed H. is being protected by a former MSZP minister. He's protecting her! [[Attila Mesterházy: This is unbelievable!]] You know very well. Tell me, why do you want to weaken the country's defence capabilities, especially by knowing that you're defying millions of opinions? I would like to say one more thing, because a ghost walks through Hungary, a ghost of the most corrupt left-wing government of all time. The MSZP has not been on the wheel for a long time, yet the corrupt mammoth skeletons are still falling out of the closet. A symbolic example of this is the Seviép case. [[Dr. László Varga: You lie about that too!]] 11 billion forints disappeared here, with more than 300 subcontractors being damaged. The threads can lead to László Botka and István Ujhelyi. [[Noise in opposition benches. Dr. László Varga: Do you have any papers? Z. Carpathian Daniel: And have you been able to make them count?]] So if St. Laszlo's warnings Somewhere I'd like to enforce it, I suggest you do it here. In addition, instead of clarifying the whole issue, the MSZP also fascistizes journalists interested in the case and advertises a media boycott. By the way, this is the relationship between the left and freedom of the press, freedom of opinion and transparency. In any case, we hope that the authorities will act on this matter as soon as possible. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What about the ax murderer, Mr. Secretary of State?]] Dear House, It is clear from all of this that what you are offering Hungary is just like what Ferenc Gyurcsány or Gordon Bajnai suggested: the burden on people from work, the reduction of the family support system [[Nándor Gúr: You do this!]] Break the middle class [[Dr. László Varga: You're a terrible liar!]] spilled on the debt of the country and a great deal of corruption; in addition, the removal of the border seal and the launch of resettlement programmes. It also follows that László Botka is just like any other socialist, who would put an extreme burden on the Hungarians living from work, and otherwise does not deal with security aspects at all. [[Nándor Gúr: Stop talking nonsense! There's a lot of noise from the benches of the MSZP.]] Dear Chief of Staff, The voters will decide eventually, but I believe that the country will not once again enter the dead end on which it is written: the Hungarian Socialist Party. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-12-22	The fence-breaking coalition has come together. Mr Hollik, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, will now address his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. [[Moraj on the opposition side. Dr. Wind Bernadett: Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] Not MSZP, sorry, KDNP! If I said the wrong thing, I'm sorry, because I think there's been a misunderstanding. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-12-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We want to be a fair parliamentary faction. [[Dr. László Kács: Something tells me you won't be fair!]] So, for the first time in seven years, we have to thank the socialists for something. Because if Bertalan Tóth's speech didn't have so many roofs, it did make so much sense that he pointed our attention and the public's attention to St. Laszlo's year. Thank you very much. The problem is that several socialists have spoken in the last week. But they've already said something else. The MSZP Prime Minister's candidate, the president of the MSZP, spoke last week on migration, and after that, it is clear that the fence-breaking coalition has now come together. We are not surprised that György Soros said his speech last week in Berlin and the opinion of the left is very similar. First, László Botka, who is now the official candidate for Prime Minister of Socialists, admitted that if the socialists came to power, they would try to break down the fence as soon as possible. In fact, he added that he would not have built it in the first place. Then Péter Niedermüller, representative of the Democratic Coalition in Brussels, made it clear that they wanted to tear down the fence. I would quote him literally, "I would tear down the fence, let the refugees come to us." That's what Ferenc Gyurcsány's party partner said. Then it turned out that it was not only about breaking down the fence that would open the way for migrants, but also that they were ready to support the resettlement quota. The president of the MSZP, Gyula Molnár, suggested in a TV interview a few days ago that Hungary should accept the EU quota and that everyone should play their part in solving the migration crisis, and if this means accepting the compulsory resettlement quota, then the compulsory resettlement quota should be accepted. In fact, after these speeches, it was only a foam on the cake that it turned out that Ahmed H., who had been convicted of terrorism in the first degree, had now changed counsel and - that he was not - the former Socialist Minister of Justice, Péter Bárándy, took on his legal representation; he defended a terrorist against his own country. László Botka, Gyula Molnár and Péter Niedermüller also show that the Hungarian left is preparing to implement the Soros plan, that is, to break down the fence and allow migrants into the country. Last week, a single offensive against the Hungarian border protection started, and it became clear that the parties of the left, MSZP and DK, are on the same page on immigration issues. [[Anita Beringes: Lying is a sin, my fellow Member.]] Since they support quota and immigration, we must say that the left is a specific threat to the daily security of Hungarian people. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Do you talk about the safety of Hungarian people?]] And this is what left-wing people do, despite the fact that 3.3 million Hungarians in the referendum clearly said no to others who we want to live with and who we don't want to live with last year. It is amazing that the Hungarian left still denies the link between terrorism and immigration. Péter Niedermüller talked about this last Thursday after three terrorist attacks in the last three weeks in Europe: Manchester, London and Paris. In addition, the Italian prosecutor's office has announced that there are also trafficking networks specifically specialised in the supply of terrorists and criminals. All of this does not seem to be a reason enough for Brussels to change its pro-migrant policy. In fact, it turns out that the Paris terrorist who attacked the police last week with a hammer before Notre-Dame received a medal from the European Commission years ago for a study on immigration. [[11.50]] But to mention the positive of last week's events: Germany's leader, Angela Merkel, praised the protection of borders in Bulgaria. This is also a message to us Hungarians that we must protect ourselves, protect our borders, and because we are a Member State of the European Union and we respect what we have committed, we must also protect the Schengen borders. After all, we have something to lose: in the last seven years, the Hungarian people have achieved significant results, which is what the Prime Minister has already talked about. Therefore, if we go on this path on which we started, Hungary can finally be a strong and proud European country. But to do that, we need to protect our results. As we've seen, we can't count on the left. However, Fidesz and KDNP will continue to do their best to protect the country and the people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-24	I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, to reply from the government.
u2017-06-12-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Mass illegal immigration can be protected by physical and legal barriers, lively protection and action against compulsory resettlement quotas. The Socialists have blocked action by all means. On the one hand, the situation is that László Botka made it clear with several sentences: he does not want a fence on the southern border. Although some socialists later tried to explain Botka's sentences, their true position is always revealed. Agnes Kunhalmi called the fence unnecessary here in Parliament last week. It's an old socialist position. We also remember when Congresswoman Kunhalmi and Csaba Horváth called immigration a fake problem in the summer of 2015 and criticized the building of the fence. The position of the socialists is also incomprehensible, because now hardly anyone disputes that the physical border closure has contributed significantly to the security of Hungary, the Hungarian people. Therefore, we believe that László Botka's fence-breaking statement is not an accident but a conscious political act. This can also be seen from the fact that the MSZP did not support the legal border closure in Parliament. And it is also part of this chain that the MSZP tried to prevent the quota referendum and then did not vote for the constitutional amendment protecting the country, and even their President, Gyula Molnár, spoke about the need to accept compulsory resettlement. It is also apparent from the words of the party president that he would be willing to negotiate a version of this without a ceiling. Finally, their representatives recently supported a decision in the European Parliament that would speed up the resettlement programme, facilitate family reunification, extend the concept of refugees to a wide range of people, thereby making Hungary completely vulnerable. In fact, at the latest last autumn, we also know that Jobbik can't count on illegal immigration, that they didn't campaign fully in the quota referendum, because they didn't even have a campaign leader, and then they didn't vote for the anti-quota constitutional amendment from internal political calculations. In fact, their president has even slowed down the acceptance of the resettlement quota on one of the televisions. On top of that, last week it was also proven that the European Commission could not be expected to defend borders, for example, the Commissioner for Immigration Avramopoulos has threatened Hungary with several procedures, and he has now said that it is not a good solution for European border protection if EU Member States are to put up fences at the external borders. Unfortunately, Commissioner Avramopoulos' opinion has changed: as Minister of Defence of his country, he has supported a fence to protect the borders of his country at the Greek-Turkish border, and he now thinks the same way as the Hungarian socialists. It is hard not to think that Commissioner Avramopoulos has recently met György Soros. It seems that an international coalition has been established, led by György Soros, and his pro-immigration scenario is being implemented. In the implementation, besides the Soros Banderies and certain Brussels bureaucrats, the MSZP and the Gyurcsány Party are also important partners, and Jobbik is a silent partner. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We note that the Hungarian left, László Botka, the Gyurcsány Party and Jobbik do not want to protect Hungary's borders, they do not want to protect Hungarian people. They recommend this to the Hungarian voters. And we, the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP, ensure that we protect Hungary's borders and protect Hungarian people. In this way, it is clear and clear what we can decide in the 2018 elections. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-26	Next up is Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpát, member of Jobbik's faction:, What kind of Hungary would Jobbik like? It's an address. Here you go.
u2017-06-12-27	Mr President, Dear House, Today's parliamentary standards also show that not only emotions are getting loose in the House, but also professional programme-based debates are being lost, and perhaps we can say that they have been lost, because during the debate on the most important bill of the year, during the debate on the budget, we were not really faced with professional arguments, and this was also woven through by the government with a variety ofisms. And what we see is that a short year before the elections, we should be talking about who has the vision for Hungary, who has the vision for the future, because we have a picture of a country from which not only hundreds of thousands of Hungarians migrated, but over three hundred thousand people, based on research, are planning to do so in the coming years; a country suffering from a housing crisis. Today's news is that luxurious apartments are already sold out in seconds, as active, productive Hungarian people in the productive sphere simply cannot solve their housing problems. We have many problems - including our population crisis - on which this government does not have modern answers. This was also the case in the previous election period, Fidesz-KDNP's program was to continue, so he didn't dare put his commitments on the table. This is the case right now, we are not really seeing clearly about the government's intentions, but in terms of so-called left-wing or other opposition forces, we do not even see what kind of standing they want to be in, which shows their perfect incompetence a year before the elections. On the other hand, Jobbik is already in the process of programming and, on the weekend, unanimously accepted the statement of principle that puts this vision on the table, a vision of a positive, liveable, free and safe Hungary that has been missing for the past 27 years, and on which I have to say that the attitude towards politicians must also be changed, since the Hungarian political, I do not say that it is elite, but let us say that a group has done a great deal to make Hungarian voters hate them, not to trust them, and it has emerged that they do not consider MEPs, politicians, whose mandate and task is to make the country better, but rather a distant alien, oligarch, governor. And indeed, the prominents of the current government have done everything in their power to prevent this very dark image from being resolved, so to speak. Clearly, for Jobbik public life cannot be the right to rule, but it must be the duty of service. Weeding corruption and arrogance out of public life, the elimination of this plague, may be the key to achieving meaningful progress. Jobbik has put concrete commitments on the table for this purpose, and has set out in particular what kind of Hungary you want. Obviously, I am not in a position to highlight all our important points in view of the shortness of time, but it is certain that we will be ruthless in the fight against anti-corruption, since corruption has been tolerated first in recent government cycles and is now placed in the supported category by you. But with the Betterman's administration, stealing the country's money will go back to the forbidden category, you can be sure of that. Obviously, the idea of an ecosocial national economy can be part of catching up on Hungarian wages in terms of purchasing power, which you simply sabotaged. If we now look in euro at how Hungarian wages have changed in the previous years, then we can say that they have increased much less than in other countries of Europe or even in a regional comparison. We can say that the amendment of the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, supported by me, but still in a cosmetic way, continues to keep away, so we are not approaching Austria, but not to other countries in the region in this respect. So here is the opportunity to support Jobbik's EU Wage Initiative, which does not involve the transfer of tax or other powers, but rather prevents the guaranteed and sure state of destiny that leads to the elimination of Central and Eastern Europe from ageing and the drastic acceleration of population loss here. Jobbik wants to prevent, effectively and with modern answers, the catastrophic processes in which this government's only meaningful reaction is to boost its own propaganda machine. And we can also see that until a tax system in support of production, a Hungarian economy on its own feet, it is not possible to maintain support for young people's start-ups, decent working conditions, care for those in need and the maintenance of a decent pension for the elderly. Jobbik therefore put the challenge of providing modern answers to Hungary's resurrection on the table - in quotes. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If you have your own vision, it is up to the government to finally share it with the Hungarian public. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[12.00]]
u2017-06-12-28	Once again, I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2017-06-12-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am aware, too, honourable Member, that Jobbik organised a convention this weekend - I have been shallowly monitoring the news - and there they promised all kinds of things, including safe Hungary, clean hands, and they also said, perhaps the party president, that government in all circumstances requires love. And if they have said so, then it is worth seeing how Jobbik can promise such things with such a history behind his back. Let's start with security. The question arises as to how you can rely on security when, for more than a year, the government has been constantly undermining its action against illegal immigration. They ran the quota vote, they didn't vote for the anti-quota amendment. Gábor Vona also said in the RTL this January that it is okay to think about distributing a few thousand immigrants. That's what he said. And there's more about security. In your 2014 programme, you said that more transparency should be made of the activist groups funded from abroad; they said that they would put an end to the fraudulent activities of the defenders. Now they do not support the transparency bill, and if I understand it correctly, they argue with the same argument as left-wing parties, and they will vote with them this week in the final vote. At your convention, you also spoke of clean hands. There are people here who promise cleanliness who, by the way, run to the sternum in corruption cases. Those who have some illusions about how Jobbik manages public funds will look at the example in Ozd: here is the suspicion that the mayor has entered a public procurement, which has led to a significant increase in costs, and all they say is that there has been a risk analysis, so even the cynicism tree is well shaken. So what I can tell you is that if you really want to be ruthless in anti-corruption matters, you should spend the summer months first and foremost in Ozdon or in the residence of Béla Kovács. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You also spoke about the tone of Hungarian public life, the quality of public life, and your party president said these days that governance requires love; this is partly related to what you say. By the way, we would agree, because we cannot govern without loving the country in which we live. But I think Jobbik's path is bordered by a lot of things except love. Because, honourable Member, how can you talk about love in such a way that you have reached the physical threat here in this House? How can you rely on love if you still have a representative who spit in the Holocaust Monument here on the Danube Bank and was proud of it? What is the value of love to you if we know that another of your representatives would have listed Jewish representatives? But if you look at the last few days, how can a party president who had a member of Parliament, according to press reports, have threatened a publicist, a musician, with a brutality he has never seen in the last few days? According to reports, he not only referred to his supposed origin, but also brutally threatened his family members. The party who asks for love in Hungary with a Coelhon pátos can squeeze out so much that the person is not a member of Jobbik. It's like he didn't sit here among you for years as a Member of Parliament. The point is, therefore, honourable Member, that even though the right-handers are flying heart-shaped balloons into the air, the tiny tempo is still at a slight pace, the aggressiveness remains, and the voters are very well aware of the types of figures marching in cutely fashioned costumes. And a great riddle to me is that the MSZP, which had previously fascistized half the country and imagined brown uniforms everywhere, now in the hearing of serial threats, lies like a slug under a leaf. Where are the petitions now, where are the Brussels submissions, and how does it feel to cooperate with this party, Jobbik, on more and more issues? Dear House, At the better-looking convention, it was also said that the curse must be broken that anyone who is Hungarian feels like a loser. With all due respect, I would like to ask the better Members - on behalf of many of us - not to project their own tormented position on the Hungarians. The Hungarian people are not a loser because if necessary, they always stand up for the interests of the country and for their own right. Well, that's what Jobbik hasn't been for a long time. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-30	Szilárd Németh, on behalf of the Fidesz Group, also spoke before the agenda. The security of the Hungarian people is now threatened by the corruption of Simicska-Jobs. It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2017-06-12-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We've heard Gábor Vona here before, the newly elected Prime Minister candidate for Jobbik, vice-president of the faction, vice-president. I wonder why these people think everything's okay. Why do you think that here in the House, on the street, at the convention you can constantly talk about corruption, that if they arrive, then all crimes will be eliminated in Hungary? This is the party, we can safely say, which drinks wine and preaches water; if you will, Jobbik is the hotbed of political corruption. Well, let's look at Gyula Zagyva, the poster face of Jobbik, and his campaign face, who a few days ago in a movie with an extreme liberal mind, perhaps we could say that in the organization of an anarchist-minded man - called Márton Gulyás - they openly and clearly attacked the constitutional, fundamental order of the country with many of their companions, and encouraged people to tear up the entire electoral system, the whole constitutional system together, together, from far left to right. We've heard this before from far-left politicians a few years ago. Then what the good Lord gives us is not 48 hours, the same man runs out to the far right, where he has always been - he was a real hard swordsman of Jobbik's parliamentary group; we remember the stunt he performed with a great sword, and then he repeated with a whip later - and he practically threatened a musician journalist and his whole family in an alparic, streetside voice, Jewish voice. I think that these acts are crimes in themselves, and it is obvious that the authority will also do its job on these issues, but if we continue to think about it, it is clear that this whole constitutional arrangement, the whole democratic system, the democratic functioning of the whole country, puts people in an emergency, endangering the safety of people in order to gain power, and, after gaining power, promising all kinds of acts of violence. So, basically, they're threatening the safety of the citizens of this country. On the other hand, when we look at it, they prepare the way that, if the democratic order and security of the country are threatened, others will say, as has already been the case in this country, what we can do, who we live with, when we have to open borders, how many people we have to let into this country. And then we didn't talk about how a billionaire practically bought the leaders and politicians of Jobbik by milligram. Yes, it's about Lajos Simicska. The Simicska-Vona clan also joined forces on the question of flooding the country with a poster forest. Now let's not talk about the contents of this poster forest, but let's talk about its circumstances, how much it cost, how much it costs, how long it takes, whether there's a contract, where they got the money. They're gonna tell me 150 million they got it from some bank. It would also be an interesting question how the bank gives Jobbik, and in return what it asks Jobbik to do for it, but let's leave it now; let's see that a party with 476 million subsidies - because last year that was the state's support for this party - is able to pay HUF 2.5 billion for this poster forest, which is two posters forests in total, if you look at the numbers, represented between 7 and 9,000 posters. They will announce that the bill of poster law that we would like to reduce the type of political corruption that Jobbik has implemented and the black funding of the parties will certainly not contribute to this, they will not support it. We believe that those who do not vote in favour of the bill of posters supporting the black funding of parties are, in fact, the party's spear against corruption, that is corruption itself. Hungary is a strong and proud European country, which cannot be in such corruption. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[12.10]]
u2017-06-12-32	I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary.
u2017-06-12-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As Mr President pointed out at the beginning of his speech, in cases where acts have been committed, as in the case of György Zagyva, or in the case of the former Hungarian Guardian, the Hungarian police, prosecutors and courts know what they are doing and make appropriate decisions. As far as the other half of the agenda is concerned, I am thinking of posters, we know that we are on the verge of an election campaign, and there is a particular suspicion that there are billionaires and financial groups who want to influence the election results, they want to make the chances of the electoral candidates unequal, whether we are talking about the right or the left. There is a clear link between Jobbik and Simicska companies in the poster business. These attempts threaten the cleanliness of the elections, raise concerns about the covert party funding, the suspicion of corruption and other crimes. It is also clear from the press that the NAV has launched an investigation into the suspicion of budget fraud at Lajos Simicska's posters, which have provided a platform for Jobbik's continuous poster campaign. It is suspected that two companies have deceived the authority by declaring significantly fewer advertising platforms, and that the time limits may not be as set out in the contracts or in the invoices. These will be checked by the NAV. The Jobbik himself is constantly confused about the number of posters. You can read in the press that the actual surface number for months can be greater than what they actually admit. This means that the costs would also be much higher than what Jobbik is talking about. It is also possible that benefits will reach a much higher rate than market conditions. Hopefully the investigation will find out. Jobbik claims that it took credit for the poster campaign, but Gábor Vona wrote a letter to the Banking Association that he could not get the Jobbik loan. This also means a controversial statement. However, it is clear to everyone that such a poster campaign cannot be financed from HUF 150 million. Posters are constantly being renewed in the public area, so those who travel the country do not need to be informed from the press, you can see that the content changes, they are being re-glued, so practically they require continuous funding. Jobbik, on the other hand, should account for where its money comes from and why it is linked to this group of companies, and how they will be repaid and what requests they will have to make if they receive discounts. In Hungary, however, a series of such abuses cannot remain without consequences, the Criminal Code clearly provides for the facts of fiscal fraud, and states that everyone who errs, makes false statements, or conceals the true fact in relation to their obligation to pay into the budget or funds from the budget causes a budgetary disadvantage. The facts make it clear that the deception committed in the course of the fulfilment of the tax return or reporting obligation in electronic form is also considered to be such an act. The sentence may be from 2 to 10 years, depending on the extent to which they have caused damage to the budget. To prevent this situation and to conclude these debates, the bill before this House on the prevention of covert party financing and the provision of transparent campaign funding can be an excellent opportunity. It can be seen that the position of Jobbik and the majority of governments is shared in this matter, but it is also possible that the other opposition parties do not wish to accept this proposal out of a false sense of solidarity. It is also due to the fact that, even if this proposal does not prevent all abuse, a visible surface, a visible method, could be removed from existing abuses. This vote will certainly show tomorrow who are really interested in eliminating corruption and who continue to support these suspicious back-to-back influences. This is a matter for this House to decide. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-12-34	In the list of speeches before the agenda, I give the final floor to the Head of the Group, Mr Bernadett Szél, who will address his speech with the title "Another wasted semester." Here you go.
u2017-06-12-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I was once again fortunate to be able to listen to your speeches, which, in mid-June, could be considered a cycle summation. Well, I'm sad to see that Hungarian citizens are absolutely right when they talk about politicians and tell them to go to hell. Because the thing is, they talked about everything here, but they didn't talk about what would happen to Hungarian people. They scorned each other, they hurt each other, they hit each other, they said everything to each other, but they didn't talk about how your performance on government, for example, has been for the past six months. I have been strengthened by the belief and determination that a full exchange of lines is needed in this Hungarian policy, and we simply need new politicians and new forces. Because you've already shown us what you're capable of, and thank you very much, we won't be asking for this for a long time. And the other is that you care about everything but people. They take on every conflict in the world, they walk into each other, they keep saying theirs, but the truth is, they see the splinters in each other's eyes, and they don't even see the beams in their own eyes. That's the truth! Because if one corrupt talks to the other corrupt, which one is the bigger corrupt, it's a joke in the country where most people can't buy their kids a shoe at the end of the month if they grow out and save months to finally have something to go to school in. I don't know what kind of world you live in, but something completely different in parallel. What I can tell you is that this six-month period has wasted many more months of Hungarian people's lives, that the Hungarian people have practically strengthened the fact that the majority in the government can no longer expect anything from this country. The Hungarian people see, and that is why the number of people who want to change government is increasing, that Fidesz-KDNP is far from us. We have seen this before, by the way, in the months prior to the 2006 election, when practically the then party of the government was just playing to make it through to the campaign. Now you can see that at Fidesz-KDNP. It's gonna end badly, I'd like to say. If Viktor Orbán wants to play the sheet music of Vladimir Putin and Ferenc Gyurcsány for a long time, then I really think that you can cut the inch, because the Hungarian people will not tolerate it for a long time, you can be sure of that. It was quite obvious from your speeches that there was no responsibility in the pro-government benches. No driving, no exampleing, no real work performance. And in this country, we finally need politicians who are able to put political performance on the table. You were not elected to use the Hungarian taxpayers' money to make a very expensive government propaganda under the direction of your Minister of Propaganda. I am sick of Szilárd Németh becoming the chief ideologist of Fidesz, who reads from Hungarian women to everyone, and feels entitled to read to more than half of the country. Who does this man think he is, please? ! Despite the will of the people, it is not possible to govern for a long time. On the issue of the Paks referendum, you have proved that you are infinitely cowardly and govern against the Hungarian people. If you are not looking at referendum research on Hungarian taxpayers' money, it is clear that the majority of Hungarian people want a referendum on Paks II. because the Hungarian people do not want to waste their tax dollars on lining up your oligarchs. There's the top 4 oligarch, I can see how much of the Hungarian taxpayers' money they've already received, and there hasn't been a single cut on Paks. If you remain in power and this is a very important issue in 2018, you will practically steal people's eyes in relation to Paks. We can't afford that. What I can tell you is that what you're doing here is wrong for representation, and it's pathetic for performance. It's not a government performance, it's not a political achievement, what you're doing. The May Other The Politics believes that the Hungarian Parliament should have had enough to do, on the one hand we should have talked about recalling Hungarians going abroad, fleeing and leaving, on the other hand, and we should have taken the last six months to do so. We should have talked about how this country will have an excellent education system, a functioning health care system, and a strong anti-corruption policy so that wages in this country are good. But we can't hope for this from discredited politicians. Those who have stolen this country during the last 27 years will not bring you anything new, will not make it easier for honourable voters. They will continue this dirty business as long as voters are given confidence in it. What I can tell you is that one of Fidesz's greatest achievements is that it divided this country in two, and has dumbed down politics and political communication at all. [[12.20]] The LMP has a clear message: enough of discredited politicians, and this country must live in peace and quiet again, at last we need to work for normal wages, we need an excellent education system, and what we need is that if we get sick, then there are those who care for us, and we need all the help we can get, our tax dollars are also suitable for us not to get sick at all. This is the vision of renewable Hungary, which is why we will work. Thank you.
u2017-06-12-36	Mr. Csaba Dömötör has the floor again.
u2017-06-12-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Who sits here in Parliament is the electorate's choice, no matter how much you raise the volume. Allow me to briefly describe the period that you called a wasted time in your speech, in its title. I understand that the elections are coming and that we must say tough things, but the fact is that this country is now experiencing a growing period, and I do not recommend that you take this away because it has the work of millions of Hungarians. I'd like to tell you that the first priority for us is the appreciation of people from work. And if you can hang up your phone, I'll also tell you that compared to 2010... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What does it have to do with what I do? Uproar, interruptions from the ranks of the governing parties, including: Answer! What manners is that?]] - I'll answer you. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett's intervention.]] - more than 700,000 people work in Hungary than in 2010, and less than 200,000 people apply for aid instead of 500,000. We are also aware, honourable Member, that the existence of a job is necessary, but in itself it is not enough for the stable growth of families, and wage increases are also necessary. That's why I think it's strange that you're not listening to ongoing wage-raise programmes. During this period, I would like to tell you that teachers, academic researchers, specialists, nurses, workers in the cultural sector, government officials, law enforcement workers, firefighters have received or received a wage increase. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Don't lie, please.]] Soldiers, police and public companies, and wage increases are also taking place in the market. I would like to tell you that the minimum wage and the minimum wage for skilled workers will increase by 24 per cent between 2016 and 18 per cent in two years and 40 per cent when it comes to skilled workers. I understand your harsh words, but it remains a fact that wages in Hungary have increased by an average of 10 percent over a year, and that does not, of course, mean that we do not have any more to raise to, but we are talking about an increase. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett's intervention.]] And this rise, if you'll allow me to tell you, is more than a month's salary. I do not know whether LMP supports next year's budget [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: No.]] But if you do, you can do it with a good heart, because there will be more money in each area. If we put everything into it, we'll have 217 billion more for health care and 97 billion for education. I mention these questions because you referred to them. There'll be 30 billion more for road renovations. Taxes are falling further, tax relief for families with two children is increasing, VAT on the Internet is falling, more resources will be available for home creation, more than HUF 200 billion, thus stimulating childbearing, economic growth and construction. As a framework for all this, honourable Member, there will be a 4 percent growing economy, a growing economy. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You are here bashing the government day by day, it is ultimately the job of an opposition party, that is right, but we know very little about what LMP offers to Hungarian families. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Read the program.]] Very little. We know two things, in any case, that you would introduce the resettlement quota. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Ouch!]] We can derive this from their votes in the European Parliament. [[Noise, interruptions on both sides.]] Before you are surprised or surprised, I would like to tell you what he said in the European Parliament. He said that the LMP could not imagine the solution, the solution to the crisis, other than the introduction of a compulsory quota system. [[Noise on both sides.]] So before you deny it, look at what your representative is doing in the European Parliament. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett's intervention.]] Then we also know that they would touch the key, and this means nothing but drastic tax increases for left-wing governments. So you're part of that left-wing coalition. [[Sallai R. Benedict's intervention.]] which would further burden the middle class. [[Interviews from the lines of the LMP, including Dr. Wind Bernadett: You will also pay more taxes.]] If you're really interested in the fate of families, I'm asking you not to raise taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You qualified us, so allow me to say a few words about the LMP. I'm very sorry that a once better fateful couple [[Sallai R. Benedict's intervention.]] He went down the path he was going through, because a year before the election, you can see how they're drifting into the big left-wing collusion to mix with those who've already ruined this country. They are also increasingly open to the hug of billionaires, because what other reason could there be that you do not want to support the bill of posters on the House's agenda. If we are curious about the reasons for this, then the words of Congressman Hadházy, who said that, unlike many others, he already values Lajos Simicska. He said, "I'm telling you, Simicska must be appreciated in this world." I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would not be happy to see the number of parties held up in Parliament increase by one more. That's another reason for double strength [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Let's fight covert party funding. If politics can be different if there are more surviving parties in Parliament, then let it be no different! Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-38	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2017-06-12-39	Dear Parliament, No one came forward to speak after today's agenda. On Tuesday, the following were asked to speak before the agenda: Péter Szijjártó Minister for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs; Tamás Harangozó, MSZP; János Volner, Jobbik; László Szászfalvi, KDNP; Richárd Hörcsik, Fidesz; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP. On Tuesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Péter Hoppál, Fidesz; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; György László Lukács, Jobbik. On Wednesday, he applied for a speech after the agenda: János Pócs, Fidesz. On Thursday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; István Szávay, Jobbik.
u2017-06-12-40	Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent a transcript to Parliament on the termination of the office of State Secretary. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain this.
u2017-06-12-41	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 54. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I concluded that the mandate of Dr. Balázs Sonkodi, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office, will be terminated with effect from 3 June 2017. Budapest, 2 June 2017 Sincerely: János Áder
u2017-06-12-42	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear House, We are now deciding on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. The House Committee, in derogation from the house rules, initiates the National Assembly to declare the year 2017 the Memorial Year of St. László H/16032. In the course of the negotiations on the number 1 submission, you should depart from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can be held on Thursday's sitting. Proposal for a derogation from house rules H/16032/1. You can get to know him on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote. István Szilárd Németh: Everyone vote right-handed! György Balla: MSZPs can vote with their noses!]] I find that the House has contributed by 144 votes in favour, two against, without abstention, to a derogation from the house rules. In accordance with our adopted decision, amendments can be tabled until today at 15:29 a.m.; the consolidated debate of the bill will take place on Wednesday's sitting, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on Thursday's meeting. Dear House, The author initiated, by submitting the necessary number of supporting signatures, that Parliament would discuss in an exceptional procedure the 2003 III. on the exploration of the secret service activities of the last system and the establishment of the Historical Archives of the State Security Services. Act T/15844 amending Act T/1584 and certain related laws. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Member initiated the possibility of submitting amendments within three hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure, the consolidated debate on Wednesday and the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on Thursday's meeting. [[12.30]] The motion for an exception is T/1584.3. can be found on the website. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members, i.e. a hundred Members, need the vote 'yes' in order to proceed with the exceptional procedure. Now it's time for decision-making. So I'm asking you if T/15844 is accepted. Submitted in exceptional proceedings, according to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 131 votes in favour, 21 against and 1 abstention. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted at 15.30 a.m. today. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on amendments to the agenda. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the 2003 III. on the exploration of the secret service activities of the past system and the establishment of the Historical Archives of the State Security Services Act T/15844 amending Act T/1584 and certain related laws. The agenda for today's meeting, as set out in the proposal for an exception, should be added to the discussion on the CXCIX of 2011 on public service officials until the end of the joint debate on Wednesday's meeting. T/15592 on the amendment of law and other related laws After the general debate on the legislative proposal No 1 has been concluded. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group proposed that decisions on the summary amendments be taken on Monday at not earlier than 15.00 instead of 14:00. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Also, the Fidesz Group suggested that T/155557 amending Act C of 2003 on electronic communications. On Tuesday, following the decisions of the meeting, the 2015 CCXI on chimney sweeping activities discussed the Commission reports and the summarised amendment proposal. T/1577. Before the debate on the Commission's reports and the summary amendment proposal for the draft legislative act, the final vote and the final vote shall take place on Thursday's meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The LMP and MSZP Group have proposed that T/14967 on transparency for organisations supported from abroad This meeting shall not be subject to the decision of the Bill No 1. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of Parliament has not accepted the proposal. [[For signal:]] Do you have anything to say? Here you go.
u2017-06-12-43	Thank you, Mr. President. House rules are 25. With a vote counting machine, please repeat the vote.
u2017-06-12-44	Thank you. Dear House, Then I ask again whether the Parliament agrees with what the LMP and the MSZP Group are proposing, i.e. T/14967 on transparency of organisations supported from abroad. Is there no law to be taken at this meeting? Please vote by machine. [[Vote.]] I note that the House did not accept the proposal by 35 votes in favour, 119 against, without abstention. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of proposals. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated Economic Committee to invite B/13830 on the activities of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority in relation to electronic communications in 2016. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the Committee to take a decision by 120 votes in favour, 37 against and without abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the designated Economic Committee is invited by the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office Parliamentary Report 2016, B/14665. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the designated committee to take a decision by 120 votes in favour, 38 against and no abstentions. I ask the House whether the designated National Defence and Police Committee is invited by the report of the Independent Police Complaints Board on its experiences in 2014-2016, B/15762. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House asked the Committee to take a decision by 120 votes in favour, 38 against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Next up is the 2016 XC on Hungary's central budget for 2017. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/15427. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I am now ordering a one-minute recess and asking my fellow Members to leave the Chamber quickly and quietly if they feel better outside. [[Several Members are leaving the meeting room. It's a short break.]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2017-06-12-45	Welcome to my fellow Members. We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Committee on Budgets and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 60-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-06-12-46	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, As usual in the draft budget law, the legislative committee is responsible for the Committee on Budgets, and I would therefore like to present this opinion. In addition to the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary joined the discussion of the draft law amending the central budget for 2017. The detailed debate was held by our committee, where there was no significant debate. Opinion delivered by the Committee T/15427/12. I would like to point out that the amendment of the 2017 Act is necessary because, thanks to the good performance of the economy, there is more resources available in public finances than expected. [[12.40]] Therefore, the government intends to spend the additional resources at its disposal on various development programmes, including the development of the road network, the implementation of the Irinyi Plan, the support of the Ecumenical Assistance Organisation, the Hungarian Defence Service and the restoration of the First World War war tombs, the joint development of Bethesda Children's Hospital and the Buda Irghalismrendi Hospital. It is important to point out that the implementation of these developments does not affect the cash flow deficit and does not increase public debt as a result of the balance-neutrality of the changes. Coverage is provided by higher excise duty and personal income tax revenues than expected and by levies. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the above positive measures in the proposal, which have important public objectives, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the motion in the votes and in the final vote on Thursday. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-47	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Three speakers presented the minority opinion in the committee, with a total duration of 30 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the MSZP Group.
u2017-06-12-48	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A budget is not just a set of numbers, but it is always a mirror, a mirror of how a community thinks about redistributing jointly produced goods, how it wants to create redistributable goods, how it wants to distribute them, what it considers important, what it considers to be supported, what it wants to save money, who it puts a greater burden on, and who it wants to help. At Hungary's central budget in 2018, Fidesz also showed what it wants, showed how it thinks about Hungarian society, and how it intends to acquire the state goods produced jointly for its own moonyard. During the debate on the budget, it has proved repeatedly that this is a budget of injustice and corruption. It's unfair, because Fidesz rewards the rich, punishes the poor. It's unfair for Fidesz to have the rich pay their taxes to low-income workers. It is unfair that Fidesz leaves a tax reduction of HUF 400 billion per year for the rich, while eliminating the minimum wage tax exemption and increasing VAT to 27 percent. It is unfair that the tax burden on wage earners, and especially those with lower incomes, will be among the highest in Europe in 2018, but it is also unfair to share a cake, because Fidesz is more concerned that public funds will remain among friends, Matolcsy, Habony, Garancsi, Mészáros, Tiborczs, Ádám Balog, lose public money than enough money for health, education and social services. In addition, despite the fact that the money that can be distributed has become more, there is still less money for the real tasks of the state compared to 2010, because Fidesz needs stadiums and propaganda and a nuclear power plant that never returns. This is what we call a budget for corruption, because this is how hundreds of billions of people in this area lose their public money to Rogan, Orbán and other close acquaintances of government members. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2018 budget will therefore give no hope to the majority of people, and the government, based on the country's robbing, will continue providing serious billions of dollars to Fidesz entrepreneurs and family members. The seven-year government of Fidesz has increased poverty, and the risk of slippage is increasing. Today, more than one third of the entire population - much more than ever before 2010, even in the years of crisis - lives below the minimum level, and you leave these people on the side of the road, you do not help them. As a result of Fidesz's seven-year governance, Hungary's competitiveness has also deteriorated brutally: in one year Hungary has been ranked 69th in the World Economic Forum's ranking of competitiveness. We are separated not only from the core of the EU, but also from the Visegrád countries, and one of the main reasons for this is government operation and corruption, while it can be seen that if Hungary does not receive additional EU funds after 2020, Hungary will be subject to austerity, stagnation and serious fallback from neighbouring countries. It can also be said that Fidesz's seven-year governance results in the destruction of the education system. Not only is there a problem with the country's competitiveness in the present, but it will also be in the future, because according to the latest PISA report from the 2015 survey, one in four children is functionally illiterate and the school system preserves social differences. That's what the Urizing Fidesz elite's education policy brought. That is why it is incomprehensible and unacceptable that Fidesz is spending less and less money on education and that a child's fate can be sealed by being born into a rich or poor family; this is unacceptable to us. We believe that all Hungarians are equal and must have equal opportunities so that the development of talent is not prevented by the poverty of the family. The result of Fidesz' seven-year governance is that there are systemic problems in health care, for example, how there are billions of propaganda, but there are no regular hospital cleaning; how there are up to four thousand people on a general practitioner because there are no practitioners loaded; how there are not enough money for drug subsidies; how there are only promises of raising wages for health workers, but they do not want to keep it. We would expect the budget to provide the state with decent health care from the Hungarian people's tax forints, which includes the respectable financial recognition of the work of healthcare workers. So we would have expected you to set up next year's budget on such principles, but that is not what happened, because you have brought the budget of injustice and corruption to Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, Thus, during the debate on the bill, it became clear, as we said in advance, that they want nothing to do with poverty, education and health, leaving those in need behind, and dealing with systemic problems. In this way, the budget for injustice and corruption cannot be adopted, which is why the MSZP Group has tabled amendments that recognise problems and are indeed able to solve them. In this context, we proposed a total budget transfer of HUF 750 billion in order to make more money for health, education and social affairs. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, We had to regret that our proposals were rejected both in the eyes of the Budgetary and Welfare Committees and all the other committees, thus preventing the 13th month's pension for social assistance, family support, holidays, social housing, equity pensions and exceptional invalidity benefits from being returned to pensioners now that the crisis has passed away, economic growth due to EU funds has created the opportunity to give it back to the National Assembly. The amendments clearly show that this would not increase the budget deficit, and Fidesz' unnecessary investments would provide sufficient coverage for this purpose. Let us not forget that Mr Dömötör, State Secretary, here, said that no Fidesz Member has voted for the termination of the 13th month pension due to the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, During today, they can prove this consistency when we decide on the re-introduction of the 13th month pension in reservations. My fellow members of the Government, they should also remember that they also prevented Parliament from transferring HUF 250 billion to the area of education, the increase in the wages of teachers, the greater support of universities and colleges, and programmes to promote equal opportunities for people with disabilities. In one of the most unsuccessful areas of our government, the health sector, it is not allowed to solve any of the problems, even though the extra 240 billion forints proposed by us would have expanded the wages of health workers, the benefits promised to rescue workers and the drug register. But no, you also prevented this, just when it turned out that a single resident had to take care of an entire night shift, because Hungarian doctors and workers are simply forced abroad. What surprises me most is that even from where the proposal was submitted, the additional resources will be lost. [[12.50]] As Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, I received a letter from President Tünde Handó that the numbers submitted would allow for a 15 percent increase in the salary of the judge, while you only want to give 5 percent. What was their solution to that? We need to withdraw the money quickly. The press interpreted this as, I would quote, hugging the courts, and all of this was very bad for those involved. In my amending proposal, we have tried to remedy this situation; this, of course, has also been rejected. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all of our proposals are covered by the budget of injustice and corruption. You would only use it for propaganda, nuclear power plants, public media, stadiums and prestige investments, instead of pensioners, socially deprived people, our children, teachers, doctors, nurses or paramedics. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up what has been said so far: in the budget for injustice and corruption, hundreds of billions will be spent on completely unnecessary and failed luxury investments next year, while money should be in the social field, in the education and health sector. Therefore, the MSZP, with its proposed amendments, would ensure the legitimate expectations of those in need, teachers, doctors, nurses and judicial staff. The MSZP maintains its view that the 2018 budget is therefore, in this form, unacceptable. I would ask you to support the amendments that we have maintained in the decisions, otherwise this will remain the budget for injustice and corruption. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2017-06-12-49	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As part of our current agenda, the 2016 XC on the 2017 central budget. The Commission's reports and a summary amendment proposal for the amendment of the Act are under discussion. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik Group, please.
u2017-06-12-50	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It is undoubtedly a fact that my fellow Member has also said a lot of truth about the draft budget law for 2018, and we should not discuss it with him. However, I would insist, as the President said, on the agenda, and I would like to speak about the amendment of the budget law No 17. In contrast to what my fellow Member Szűcs has said, I would like to start by saying, that there would not have been a major debate on this issue in the committee; I feel that opposition representatives have, however, given a very, very many points to this bill. I regret the fact that I regretted the fact that, unfortunately, the pro-government representatives were all the more silent. I would therefore like to quote from my comment at the time as one of the minority speakers. Government communication, in particular Minister of State Banai, is about disciplined fiscal policy on the bill. This is true in that the government is indeed extremely disciplined and consistently creating the reserve for next year's elections. Thus, it increases significantly to extraordinary government measures - we know that plus 30 billion - and to the National Security Fund - by 35 billion - which, as we know, is the pocket money of the governing party. We consider it an amazing arrogance to raise the propaganda industry's framework for another $5 billion. By the way, we have proposed not only to raise it by 5 billion, but simply to eliminate this completely unnecessary salt office. Of course, it is possible to support the development of educational and health institutions, which has long been necessary. We always say this about the bill, so the Jobbik faction can support this budget in this respect. At the same time, it is regrettable that the government plans to support certain mandatory municipal tasks only to a very modest extent. Thus, the crèches, the envelope for the establishment of the mini-cradle and the maximum amount that can be applied for by each municipality are also low. We propose a substantial increase in this. It is a question of the government's intention to give 800 million forints to the municipalities for the development of daycare facilities, of which the government can claim up to 10 million by way of the application, but still only a narrower number of municipalities. This, we feel, is in fact an incomprehensible amount of money. In this connection, we tabled an amendment. I am very sorry that the government has shown an extraordinary narrowness compared to the Rogán Ministry. In addition, we have proposed to increase support for the creation of image manuals and to expand the scope of municipalities to be supported. Because if the government doesn't do it, then the municipal regulations and the image manuals associated with it will consist only of a series of photos made with a smartphone; it will have no merit, except obviously, which is the part of the poster law, which, as we know, is also the dictatorial step of the government before the election next year. In recent years, the development needs of small municipalities have far exceeded the amount of the appropriations included in the draft. That's 2 billion forints. It's a new budget that the government is putting in here, but we've suggested that it be increased. I also said in the debate that, in connection with rural development applications, we know that five to six times the total amount originally planned came to the Prime Minister's Office, so this HUF 2 billion seems to be almost incomprehensible. Again, I could say - but I am not saying the Rogán Ministry, but let's say the extra 2.4 billion of the National Film Fund - I think that if at least some of the money from its casinos were to be released to an offshore company in Liechtenstein, Andy Vajna would put it in this National Film Fund, because we know that it has a fundraising register, then it would be possible to finance even meaningful films, large Hungarian historical feature films. So there would be a framework for this, and this 2.4 billion could be given calmly by the government, say, to support the development needs of small municipalities. It is also admittedly a fact that the number of people under 2000 of the 3200 Hungarian local authorities is 2000 and since the change of regime these municipalities have been the stepchildren of the development policy of the governments at the time, even though there is no country to live without a living countryside. Therefore, if and if the 2017 Budget Act should be amended, it should probably be a modern rural programme. So now, besides the program of modern cities, not playing the countryside and the big cities against each other again, but also giving substantial support to small settlements. We can also support an extra HUF 50 billion for the development of the road network. I have a feeling - that's why my mouth tastes bad - that maybe this extra HUF 50 billion is going to be raised from the original 10 billion to 60 billion now, and it's going to be campaigning again. I must add that the pension premium is HUF 24 billion, which is also reflected in this budget amendment, I think it is not a significant amount. Once again, if I compare it with other envelopes provided by the government as an additional source in the 2017 Finance Act, let us just think about raising the National Defence Fund or raising the framework for extraordinary government measures, yes, this amount could be multiplied. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-12-51	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter has applied for a speech, an independent Member, but the congresswoman is not in the room, so we continue our work. I will ask Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, if he wishes to comment at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, Mr. Secretary of State. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-06-12-52	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On the basis of the latest macroeconomic indicators, the performance of the Hungarian economy has increased by 4.2 percent in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the same period of the previous year. The positives of this are also reflected in the budget, as the increase in employment and consumption results in a steady increase in tax revenues, which contributes to the stability of public finances. [[13.00]] This also means that an economic growth of 4.1 per cent is expected to be expected for the whole year, instead of 3.1 per cent in the middle of last year, while maintaining a 2.4 per cent deficit target according to the EU methodology. All these positive real economic figures are largely due to the six-year wage and contribution reduction agreement of November last year. The bill before the Honourable Parliament will guide the effects of the agreement through this year's budget, while at the same time offering the opportunity to provide additional support for a number of fields of expertise. In addition to maintaining budgetary balance, the government has proposed to ensure the competitiveness of the country and the additional source of development in the health, education and social field, to finance developments to strengthen the defence capacity of Hungary and the security of Hungarian people, and indeed, to increase reserves, which are not solely dependent on the decision of a ministry, but can be used by a public government decision, and, as Mrs Hegedűs Loránt said, the municipalities will also receive additional resources, including nursery funding and the implementation of local town photo manuals. What I can therefore report to the Honourable Parliament is that, thanks to economic growth, the number of people employed and the increase in real wages, the Parliament can now debate on what additional revenue can be used for extra expenditure purposes. The government has made a clear proposal on the table: basically, the government proposes extra investment, which is reflected in the draft budget law before you. Compared to the original version of the bill, the Committee on Budgets, as the Legislative Committee of the Parliament, submitted a summary amendment containing an increase in both expenditure and revenue of approximately HUF 16 billion. The context of this amendment is the latest set of data, which is known both for economic growth and for the first five months of public finances. The first five-month budget figures again confirm the stability of the budget. Thus, according to the motion submitted by the Legislative Committee, local development of local interest can obtain additional resources in the amount of HUF 4.7 billion, the Csoóri Sándor Fund for the financing of folk culture and the Investment Preparation Fund can also manage additional resources. Dear Parliament, Please allow me to thank Parliament's committees and all Members for their work on the adoption of the bill amending the 2017 budget. Once again, I would like to emphasise that the amendment preserves the values of predictability and stability. It is clear from the proposal: the background to the fiscal change is the increasing economic performance of our country. On this basis, I would like to ask you to support and adopt a summary amendment to the amendment to the 2017 Budget Act submitted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-53	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to say to Mr Secretary of State that 6 minutes 7 seconds remain in the time frame for further discussion and closing, so please take this into account, Mr Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by Members within the time-frame on the agenda. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Vantara, Fidesz Group.
u2017-06-12-54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As stated in the introduction, we are discussing the debate on the 2017 budget and its agenda is today's topic. Mr President, you appear to have drawn up the wrong paper, as has happened at the committee meeting; so the arguments will then be moved to the 2018 budget discussion. As we got used to during socialist governance, when it comes to touching a budget year and a budget during the year, it always meant austerity. The experience of civil governance in recent years is that the mid-term amendments to the budget have not been abstracted from somewhere and abstracted from somewhere, but provide additional resources where demand has arisen during the year. Now we have a bill like this before us. Of course, I do not want to have the general debate again in May, so I would like to highlight the most important amendments, to which Mr State Secretary has referred. At its meeting on 24 May, the Committee on Budgets presented the following Commission amendments. As is known, the so-called social contribution tax, commonly known as the employer's contribution, decreased from 27 per cent to 22 per cent, and therefore justified that the central budget bodies pay their savings to the central budget on a monthly basis by 15 per month following the month concerned. I believe that this was a wise decision on the part of the government, since it would avoid unfairness between the various public bodies, as this would normally result in unjustified savings and would not have covered the necessary expenditure elsewhere. In addition, the professional rules for personal care in domestic assistance have changed, according to which the number of hours of care is the basis for administration. As a result, it was necessary to clarify the annual budget law in order to adapt this funding to the number of beneficiaries calculated on the basis of the new care hours. As the Budget Act, as has already been said, the Committee on Budgets also acts as Legislative Committee, in the so-called TAB section, it has made further amendments and submitted a summary amendment proposal, which can be found on the network in T/15427/14. It's a paper number. Allow me to highlight only the most important of these. Points 8 and 11 of the amendment address the need to meet and manage the need to strengthen the immigration and asylum system. Points 12 and 14 provide a surplus in the proposal to prepare the investment of the new Budapest Ice Hall in the Sports Facility Development Program of Ferenc Kemény. The 16th, 18th and 20th points provide funding to support events and developments in the framework of the 900th anniversary of the establishment of the Premontre Order and to support the events and developments to be carried out in the framework of the 900th anniversary of the publication of the Cistercian Statute. Points 21 and 26 will be higher than expected corporate income and personal income tax revenue for the budget due to the good performance of the economy and the whitening of the economy, and will be transferred to the amending budget. In its 30th point, as has already been mentioned, it provides additional support for municipal development for high-quality public service tasks worth HUF 4.7 billion. I ask this House to vote in favour of these positive changes in the budget both today and Thursday. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-06-12-55	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Schmuck Erzsébet, the LMP Group, has made a statement. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-06-12-56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We ask again and again why it is important for the government to adopt the budget during the spring period. Obviously, spring adoption is one of the reasons why it needs to be modified later, as it is now. However, it should not be excluded that the government, referring to predictability and stability, offers itself the opportunity to transfer funds later. A very good example of this is the transfer of HUF 20 billion from the National Defence Fund under the heading of extraordinary government measures in the Commission's overall amendment proposal. This amendment also confirms that the government does not know what amount to calculate. In addition to amending the additional revenue, there are also changes and transfers that, according to the LMP, are not eligible. The amendment includes an increase of HUF 5 billion for the communication tasks of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office. [[13.10]] We also opposed this in the previous debate, because we believe that this is nothing more than a Ministry money sink for Antal Rogán. These funds also finance completely unnecessary poster campaigns, such as the "Stop Brussels"! The country is a strong and proud country. They say we don't need them at all. I would like to stress that the entire Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister would not be needed, so we could use the amount thus increased to HUF 27 billion to support the municipalities. Although local government subsidies are raised by HUF 5 billion in the summary proposal, which is very right, but it is not enough because municipalities lack resources. Instead of spending extra money, you could still put resources here. It is also important to note that the previously created Investment Preparatory Fund, to which HUF 25 billion is transferred, and what is raised by HUF 1.6 billion in the summary amendment, is still in question. In conclusion, the LMP considers that the additional revenue generated should not be accumulated under the heading of the Cabinet Office and extraordinary government measures, but should be devoted to investments that promote housing, energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy, as well as re-establishing the resources of education and health care, but we see that it always finds deaf ears from the government side - not to mention the issue of real wage increases. Finally, I would also like to add that the government could devote greater resources to helping pensioners to live, should not be linked to a 3.5 per cent increase in GDP, pensioners could benefit from lower GDP growth. The LMP cannot support the amendment of Law No 15427. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-06-12-57	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group has applied for a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2017-06-12-58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pick up where my colleague Erzsébet Schmuck left off. It wasn't like that before, it was the same last year. We also amended last year's budget while we adopted the budget for next year; sorry, we changed the budget for that year when we adopted the budget for the following year, obviously without any facts available, because the closing date will come to Parliament sometime in the second half of the autumn session, and then we will really know whether we are making the right decision or not. This is what we always argue with the government about whether this is the right thing to do. One thing is certain: there is a system that will be changed now - I will talk about it a little bit - that we will not have to do this again next year, that we will always have to move the residual amounts to the list of extraordinary government measures, because next year the amendment of the implementation of the budget law will be in place, and it will be possible to do so by way of a decree, the regulation itself will be implemented, and the government will not have to create a room for manoeuvre here itself, but this year it is still the case. So we always argue about this, and last year we had a good debate about whether the reserve was correctly designed, why should the government itself, the government which can at any time turn certain spheres out of its corner in two days with new laws, new proposals in an emergency procedure, anything here in Parliament, and only so much in the budget - how should I put it? - they're mysterious, and there's always cases here at the budget where they don't want to bring this to the House for some reason. This is also a series of extraordinary government expenditures, such as government decisions that will affect the budget next year, and we will see what the NGM will receive as its task, which tasks it will have to solve, obviously without the approval of the majority of Parliament or with its ex post approval. But this year's the last such year, when we need to bring in a budget change, and we need the government to create a room for manoeuvre for itself. At times like this, of course, we always wonder why. Last year, they said that it was necessary to spend money on border protection, the construction of the fence, additional expenditure on the police force; the same politicians, who did not support the Hungarian Socialist Party's proposal to amend the budget that would give the police and the military 60 billion forints, and then returned their own proposal in September, but not labeled. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] It was brought back here as an extraordinary government measure. The reason we didn't support him then was because you and I have had a lot more experience than we had any illusions left, and we were still afraid he'd turn out to be a wet world again and become an Olympic preparation, and I don't know what it's gonna be. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] It's just not used for the community purposes that we would consider appropriate, let's face it, what many Members in your benches would find appropriate if they weren't so bound by faction discipline. It'll be 5 billion more for communication. We have said it a thousand times: no one has recovered in stadium or communication. A hospital in Budapest could be renovated with 5 billion forints. Why didn't you come to that, fellow Members? Why is he gonna get another poster? Why don't you find yourself renovating a hospital in Budapest, a country hospital or two, so that you can heal, cure, care for people in a more normal setting? You can't say that because that's all you've got, please, you could get five billion forints more. This is your concept: education and health in Hungary does not have a ministry, environmental protection does not have a ministry, but communication, it has a ministry, with a budget of 27 billion for the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister... - just so everyone understands: this is about the ten-year budget of a Hungarian midtown, which the Rogán Ministry spattered on posters in one year. We see the investment preparations here, we saw them last year, and we also saw what became of them: virtually nothing. Money runs away, money goes into the pockets of people who make a dirty living out of it, and Hungarians, and I think, especially if they come down to the Southlands, they might be able to look at it there, and Hungarians are getting less and less of these money, and they've already got enough posters, so thank you very much, they don't want any more. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2017-06-12-59	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Szűcs, Fidesz Group, has submitted a speech. I give you the floor.
u2017-06-12-60	Mr President, Dear House, Mr Szakács, of course, it is not certain to be disturbed by a series of facts, but it must be said and stated at this stage of debate, as the Secretary of State said, that the state budget, the 2017 budget, has stood on its feet in itself, not because it had to be changed in your time, because it was about a day in their bill adopted at the end of the year, let us say, in 2008 or 2009, when the mid-year amendments first reported cuts, they reported that there was still less progress. Remember the cancellations, the institutional restrictions of 3-5 percent and the municipal withdrawals, which, for example, in your time, the Szeged municipality was able to show a deficit of HUF 27 billion. If that had not been the case, you would probably not be able to report this or report that the second Orbán government abolished the municipal debts, for example in the case of the Szeged municipality. And to give good examples: the point of this amending budget is precisely that more revenue can be spent, so that the balance of the state budget will not change. Not the deficit will be increased by this budget change, but will make a null adjustment for objectives that are of common interest. [[13.20]] Of course, the case of money spent on communication is a constant debate. If you look at the spending of the Orbán government and the Gyurcsány governments [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Stop pointing back!]] then you'll see that they're close to balance. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That is not true! That's not true, Congressman.]] Obviously that is why - dear Congresswoman, if you would like to argue, ask for the floor [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Parliamentary genre!]] "We are very happy to be available, press the button - because most of these spending was hidden at the ministries. The exact meaning of this package of proposals is that it creates clear, clear relations, which are spent on government communication, is visible in one place and can be traced every year. I think, therefore, that we can calmly propose support for this amending budget, understanding, of course, that you are also in favour of it as in the '18 budget, that if I had made this budget, then how would I spend it. Ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, you did not have to prepare this, because then the country would still be at the level of Greece. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Especially if Kósa is in Parliament!]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-12-61	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if there is an opportunity to press a button. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2017-06-12-62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We'll talk about it this year, not next year. Next year, when regulation will be implemented on this issue, there is no need to talk about where they are packing, tell Mihály Varga, and then Mihály Varga will do all he has to do. The problem is, you know, my fellow Members, with this story of how it actually works right now, there is no regulation yet. The problem is that the practicality behind these thoughts is not in the interests of the Hungarian people, they are not spending resources in the direction they should, they are not doing for the people, they are doing for themselves and for the friends. Simply when there is a Minister of Propaganda in this country, in this government, but let us say that there is no Minister of Health and Minister of Education, this clearly shows what is important to you: to fool people, to put a multitude of injustices on posters, to do a multitude of national consultations that are not worth talking about, so that is, and to spend billions of resources in this direction that, in effect, should necessarily be for the benefit of people. But how the hell would you see that? ! Where the hell would they see health services being used through VIP services, not going to John's Hospital, not trying to protect their own health in conditions that are natural and acceptable to people living their daily lives, although it is like postwar conditions. You don't know that. VIP services aren't like that, and that's what you're using. One word, like a hundred, should first learn to use resources and to do so in the direction of amending the budget that serves people, in health, education and other directions, not where they can be fooled. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-06-12-63	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give the floor to the time frame available.
u2017-06-12-64	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Lajos Szűcs has pointed out that we should press a button calmly if we want to argue with him. And I'm not arguing with him because I agree with him. He said that this budget amendment is before us because they want to finance more expenditure on more revenue. You're right, Congressman, they want to finance more expenditure, even in areas you consider important, where they want to rub a few billion more for the Fidesz's next campaign, you're going to provide more expenses. You're right, they want to create clear, clear relationships. It is clear and clear that the Ministry of Rogán, the propaganda industry, will receive a few billions again, there will be more to scatter, there will be more to deliver to the Pasha Park, there will be more to deliver to the Csabas of Chetényi; of course, we now know that they are not the most beneficiary. This amendment before us is about the fact that during the year you have discovered that there is still a bit of a problem, that our popularity figures are not the best now, they are constantly falling, and you thought, for example, that the propaganda industry should quickly finance how this can be done even more. That's what this is all about, everybody sees it. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-06-12-65	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak within the time frame available. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Independent Members shall not participate in the debate, nor shall they be present in the Chamber. It is now taking place in a five-minute time frame, the voice of the voice invited by the nationality committee. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, a German ethnic advocate, who presents the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translates it into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2017-06-12-66	Thank you. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nummer T/15427. über die Änderung des Gesetz Nummer XC. Aus Jahr 2016, des ungarischen Haushalts für Jahr 2017 im Zusammenhang mit den Nationalitäten übergreifende Teilen erörtere. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position at T/15427. XC 2016 on Hungary's central budget for 2017 amending law on budgetary aspects affecting nationalities. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary as a committee for the debate, the Rules of Procedure of the Decision 44-45. It held a detailed discussion of the bill on the basis of Article 5 of the Act. Our committee for the bill is the HSZ 32. In examining the provisions of the notification referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 44 of the HSZ, it concluded that they were in conformity with Article 44 of the HSZ. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. Our Commission did not take a position on the amendments tabled to the bill, did not intend to make any further amendments, did not submit a proposal to close a detailed debate, and closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 23 May 2017. At the same time, allow me to draw your attention to some of the budgetary problems that are already visible from the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, which have a significant impact on national minority public education institutions in the maintenance of minority self-governments. One of our problems is that the normative provision for free children's meals does not cover the actual, total cost of free children's meals, and this, depending on the size of the institution, can result in a deficit of up to HUF 10 million per institution. The other similar difficulty is the lack of resources due to the otherwise welcome increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in 2017, as the reduction in public burdens in most places only partly offsets the additional costs resulting from the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. I would like to stress that national authorities do not have any substantial own revenue, so the additional costs resulting from certain legislative amendments are not financed or compensated. On the basis of the facts of the first half of 2017 and the expected calculated data for the second half of 2017, the compensation claim for the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage will be developed for all institutions by September 2017 and, on the basis of the specific figures, we will initiate the amendment of the 2017 Central Budget Act in autumn 2017. [[13.30]] It is not a question of budget coverage, but it is also a serious liquidity problem for public education institutions maintained by national authorities, because the current system of financing the quasi-free nationality textbook supply is the current system, since nationality public education institutions must first pay the textbook provider the price of the national minority textbooks, which they may subsequently request from EMMI, and this textbook cost compensation is compensated by a very high delay each year. I would like to point out that the reimbursement of the books of nationality ordered and paid a year ago for the 2016-17 academic year has not yet been received by our ethnic public education institutions. I think that there should be a general change in the current system, namely that the EMMI should pay the ethnic textbooks directly to the textbook publisher, so that the Calvary of the national minority public education institutions would be in short supply and solved. We would like to draw the attention of the legislators and the legislators to these shortcomings and the tasks to be solved, but despite this, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities is the 2016 XC on Hungary's central budget for 2017. T/15427 concerning the amendment of Act No. It supports and proposes to the Parliament for adoption. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-67	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if any of the factions wish to speak in the remaining timeframe. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Benő Banai, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-12-68	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, After the debate that took place, I think it is safe to say that the representatives of opposition groups did not question the fact that this year the Hungarian economy could expand more than previously assumed. No one questioned that this expansion meant additional revenue for the budget and did not call into question the possibility of additional resources being provided under cover of additional revenues while preserving the stability of public finances. This is a key factor, because I think that with a index line of around 4 per cent - according to the government, slightly above 4 per cent - this is an increase this year, which means a substantial increase in the number of people employed and a substantial increase in real earnings, and with a substantial deficit of less than 3 per cent, each EU country can always be proud of the national and international public opinion. So what we are talking about is that this year, with additional revenues covered, additional expenditure can be made. It is, of course, possible to discuss the purpose for which these extra expenditures can be used. However, I would like to point out to Parliament that the government intends to use the most criticized HUF 5 billion of national consultation and communication expenditure at a time when we are after the most successful national consultation; and I would also like to point out that the additional spending of more than 10 times 5 billion is possible for road investments. So when we look at the character of the budget amendment, I would like to draw the honourable Members' attention to the fact that, according to the amendment, there is an extra HUF 50 billion available for road development. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as has been said, the investment of Bethesda Hospital and the Mercy Hospital has a significant surplus of billions if the Parliament accepts the amendment. I would like to point out that additional resources are also available to improve nursery funding; and I would like to draw attention to the fact that, thanks to an economic expansion of more than 3.5 per cent, it will be possible to pay the pension premium for the first time in November this year, if the honourable Parliament, as appropriate, accepts the Government's amendment proposal. Finally, I would like to stress that the government is implementing the annual budget within the legislative framework, within the framework of the Finance Act, in the manner set out in the Public Finance Act. The opposition's proposals on a regulation budget that could rewrite the government's budget are therefore incomprehensible. The government can only manage within the framework of the Finance Act, carry out transfers only if it sees savings while respecting the budgetary frameworks, and these savings can be used for other public tasks by the framework scheme provided for by that Finance Act or by the Public Finance Act. I therefore believe that I can wholeheartedly recommend to the Honourable Parliament the adoption of an amendment to the budget, as it will allow significant additional resources for these development purposes, while preserving the value of stability. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-69	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Today's decisions will be decided on the summary amendment proposal. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on Hungary's budget for 2018 and the final amendment proposal follow up. The submission was made in T/15381. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I inform the Parliament that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. The detailed discussion of the draft budget law was conducted by the sectoral committees. Report by the Committee on Budgets on the detailed debate T/15381/1231. The reports of the committees relating to the debate are available on the IT network on numbers T/15381/114, 1216, 1217, 1219, 1221, 1223, 1225, 1225, 1228, 1229, 1231 and 1233. Dear Parliament, T/15381/1235. The summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate was T/15381/1236. Available on the website. The rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets shall be the first to take the floor in the debate. The rapporteur of the committee, including the opinions of the negotiating committees, and the description of the minority opinion, in summary of the minority opinions drafted in writing, may speak within a total 60-minute time frame, with 30 minutes to present the minority opinion. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-06-12-70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, We have just arrived at the item on the agenda to which the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Attila Mesterházy, has already given his opinion. This has, of course, been the case, and it has also been said at the committee meeting. You know, it's a genre where it's not very appropriate to deviate from the subject, I don't want to either. At this item, I will present the opinions expressed by the other committees in addition to the Committee on Budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, We have a bill on the central budget for 2018, the general debate of which took place in Parliament between 17 and 19 May. Of course, in addition to the Committee on Budgets, all the Standing Committees of Parliament and the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary also discussed the motion and held a detailed debate on it. As rapporteur for the designated committee, I will therefore present their views. It is important to note that all the negotiating committees have found that the bill complies with the resolution house rule 44. § (1) of the Act meets the requirements of the Fundamental Law, so the bill complies with the substantive and formal requirements of the Fundamental Law and is compatible with the unity of the legal system, it complies with our obligations arising from international law and European Union law. Opinions of the negotiating committees. Budget committee. The Hungarian economy can grow unbroken by the sixth year of 2018, and the expansion will hopefully exceed the EU average. [[13.40]] The bill complies with the requirements of paragraph 1 of this Article, so that it complies with the substantive and formal requirements of the Fundamental Law and is compatible with the legal system and complies with our obligations under international law and European Union law. Opinions of the negotiating committees. Budget committee. The Hungarian economy can grow unbroken by the sixth year of 2018, and the expansion will hopefully exceed the EU average. (13.40) It should be noted here that those countries, such as Greece, which have chosen a different path, or which have been designated by international financial institutions, are where they are today. They're in one spot, and they live from one restriction to another. On the other hand, Hungarian economic policy is successful, we are out of the overdeficit procedure and we need to talk about how Hungarian people can move a little further every year. The Committee also noted that Hungarian economic growth is showing an increasingly balanced structure. Today, exports are not only driving the economy, but also rising investment and dynamically increasing consumption. Investment dynamics are expected to be strong because the corporate tax rate will continue to decrease, the central bank policy will lead to a low interest rate environment, real incomes will increase, EU payments will also accelerate by 2018. As with this year's budget, next year's budget will be zero in terms of operation. The financial deficit is nothing more than investment and investment in the future. The stability of the budget is strengthened by a system of reserves, worth more than HUF 200 billion, to manage unforeseen risks and to source government measures during the year. On the basis of the above, we see that the economy has a stable foundation, and the draft budget presents a sound and sustainable growth trend. I would like to say here, as I did at the committee meeting, that the expectations of independent, moderate analysts in recent years have never reflected the actual figures. However, since then, these analysts have never once apologized for the fact that their analyses were not good, and the performance of Hungarian economic policy and thus of all Hungarian people was better than what they predicted. Opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The dynamic increase in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade observed in recent years will continue in 2018. The budget for the chapter will increase by HUF 43 billion to HUF 220 billion next year. One of the main elements of this growth is that Hungary appreciates its diplomats financially, in line with their work and knowledge. At foreign representations, the amount that can be spent on personal benefits amounts to HUF 50 billion. The second half of the growth is due to the increase in the investment promotion target from 30 to 50 billion forints, the increase in tied aid loans from 580 million to 7.9 billion, and the increase in foreign economic development appropriations from 3.7 to 7.5 billion. The external economic activity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has contributed significantly to the Hungarian economy breaking records in 2015 and 2016. Export, external trade and trade surplus have never been so high. Opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development. The 2018 budget strengthens the family-friendly system, the monthly tax relief for families with two children increases to HUF 35,000 per month. First married couples can still expect tax relief. The source of the home creation programme is growing significantly. More resources will be allocated to each budget subsystem in 2018 than in the previous year. Opinion of the Economic Committee. One of the main objectives of economic policy is to continuously reduce public debt, keep the budget deficit below 3 per cent, increase employment, improve competitiveness and ensure balanced economic growth. To this end, since 2010, the government has made significant structural changes in the labour market, pension systems, tax systems, education and public administration. This is the way in which the proposed budget law for 2018. The fiscal and financial balance has been restored, public debt is on a downward trend and economic growth is accelerating. Hungary has fully repaid the loan from the IMF and the European Union. The joint efforts after the market were also recognised by credit rating agencies by bringing our country back to the investment recommendation category last year. The government has decided to devote 60% of the EU's funds available in this budget cycle to economic development, which was welcomed by the Committee. The budget for road renovations exceeds the amount planned for this purpose by more than HUF 30 billion in 2017. Overall, it can therefore be concluded that next year's budget meets the legal requirements, serves the growth of the national economy well, and that the data contained therein are reliable. Opinion of the National Security Committee. The 2018 budget of the Civil Secret Service and the Military National Security Service guarantees a framework for safe operation in compliance with legal regulations. In addition to the financing of staff, services will continue to be able to finance their specific operational and development expenditure. We will also strengthen the protection of our borders and counter-terrorism due to permanent and uncontrollable illegal migration and the continuing threat of terrorism. In 2018, the government provides an adequate financial background for the protection of borders, which is the only effective instrument for combating illegal migration. In 2018, the increase in wages of soldiers and law enforcement workers is expected to be further strengthened within the framework of the career model and in the number and resources of the police. In order to ensure the greatest possible security for Hungarian people, almost all law enforcement bodies can expect additional resources next year. Due to mass immigration, the Ministry of the Interior has to expect an extra HUF 50 billion. The government wishes to provide all necessary technical and personal conditions for border protection, since there is no deal on the safety of Hungarian people. According to the majority opinion of the National Security Committee of the National Assembly, the budget bill's appropriations for civil and military services ensure the full fulfilment of the duties of the secret services laid down by law. The figures clearly show that the 2018 budget is also a budget for the security of Hungarian people. Opinion of the Defence and Police Committee. The Defence Committee concluded that the bill complies with HSZ 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 25 May 2017. Opinion of the People's Welfare Committee. Since 2010, the budget has spent HUF 410 billion more on curative-preventive benefits than in the previous ones, which meant a 29-percent increase in real terms compared to previous periods when there was no real increase in resources. At the same time, the general medical register is significantly expanding from HUF 79 billion to HUF 124 billion, which was a 32 percent increase in real terms, compared to the period 2002-2010, where only 14 percent real value growth was achieved. Over the past eight years, the funding of the protective service has increased from HUF 18 billion to HUF 27 billion, with 27 percent growth in real terms. Saving funds increased by 50 percent in real terms, and the budgetary positions of specialist care also improved significantly by 47 percent. Compared to the country's capacity, the government has made every effort to provide as much resources as possible for health care as the wages of healthcare workers, doctors, nurses, paramedics and nurses have increased steadily, step by step, in recognition of their work. [[13.50]] the requirements set out in paragraph 1 of this Article. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 25 May 2017. Opinion of the People's Welfare Committee. Since 2010, the budget has spent HUF 410 billion more on curative-preventive benefits than in the previous ones, which meant a 29-percent increase in real terms compared to previous periods when there was no real increase in resources. At the same time, the general medical register is significantly expanding from HUF 79 billion to HUF 124 billion, which was a 32 percent increase in real terms, compared to the period 2002-2010, where only 14 percent real value growth was achieved. Over the past eight years, the funding of the protective service has increased from HUF 18 billion to HUF 27 billion, with 27 percent growth in real terms. Saving funds increased by 50 percent in real terms, and the budgetary positions of specialist care also improved significantly by 47 percent. Compared to the country's capacity, the government has made every effort to provide as much resources as possible for health care as the wages of healthcare workers, doctors, nurses, paramedics and nurses have increased steadily, step by step, in recognition of their work.(13.50) It is also necessary to highlight the residency scholarship programmes, which also cover deficit schemes. Opinion of the Cultural Committee. The committee examined the bill and established its compliance with the decision-making house rule. Opinion of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. It was also established to comply with the resolution house rule, and the committee closed the detailed debate on the bill on 23 May. The Judicial Committee also did so, and they also found that the debate was closed on 23 May. Opinion of the Committee on Agriculture. In recent years, the agricultural budget has shown adequate stability and will continue in 2018. It is largely the result of this continuous stability that agriculture is the backbone of the country's economic performance. On the one hand, agricultural subsidies effectively improve the financial and income situation of farmers and encourage their investments. On the other hand, they contribute to the supply of healthy food to the population, sustainable, environmentally sound management of natural resources. National agricultural subsidies show an increase of HUF 35.8 billion compared to 2010. Support for the pig and poultry sector not specifically supported by the Union has tripled the payments made in 2010. In addition to national agricultural subsidies, the various animal and animal welfare aids, the farm development programme, the programme for the eradication of undivided common land and the budgetary background to the actions of the pig strategy launched in 2012. The stability of the sector is also supported by another important instrument, the national agricultural compensation scheme. The resources available in 2018 will continue to allow the claims for compensation to be paid in full. It should be pointed out in particular that the agricultural marketing forecast is once again part of the agricultural budget and that, despite the restructuring of the payment bodies for grants, all the resources needed for further good functioning are available from the budgetary side. The draft budget for 2018 provides significant additional resources for the actors in Hungarian agriculture compared to previous years, but mostly to the budgets before 2010. Opinion of the Committee on National Inclusion. There is no more proof that the Hungarians from abroad have become a full member of the Hungarian nation than the fact that, for seven years now, the budget lines relating to Hungarians beyond the borders have been constantly increasing in Hungary's central budget. Thanks to the resources, in recent years the mother country has made a significant contribution to the maintenance of Hungarian educational and cultural institutions abroad, but significant improvements have also been made. Among other things, the support provided last year was the Mezőségi Kemény Zsigmond Szórvány Education Centre, the Bratislava Hungarian College and the Novi Sad European College, the Reformed Transcarpathian and Greek Catholic Lyceums, the II. Ferenc Rákóczi's Hungarian College of Transcarpathia and Institute of Vocational Training. In addition to the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme, which has been successful for years, the Petőfi Sándor programme for Sporadic Hungary has fulfilled its expectations. Thanks to the social programmes of the State Secretariat and the programmes of the Government Commissioner responsible for the government coordination of cooperation and coordinated development tasks of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County and Transcarpathia, we managed to provide effective assistance to the Hungarian communities in Transcarpathia. In 2018, the so-called Unbiased Synthesis between the Hungarians in the motherland and abroad continues! program. Supporting economic development plans for the development of certain Hungarian regions in the Carpathian Basin has begun in recent years with the supervision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. The 2018 draft includes an additional HUF 15.8 billion for the continuation of the programmes started and the launch of new ones. So from a national political point of view, we see a very encouraging budget, which will further strengthen the Hungarian communities abroad in maintaining their identity and in their prosperity in the homeland. Opinion of the Enterprise Development Committee. As every year since 2010, the government's main objective is to increase employment and to improve the competitiveness of Hungarian businesses and to promote their presence in international markets. Achieving full employment remains a priority, since the civilian government has been working to replace aid from the outset. In order to achieve this goal, the direction is right, as there are 700 thousand more people working than in 2010. However, the ultimate goal must be full employment. To achieve this, labour taxes will continue to decrease, wage increases will continue in the public sector and the minimum wage increase will continue, as after this 15 percent increase, the minimum wage will increase by 8 percent in 2018. After 25 percent this year, the minimum wage for skilled workers will increase by another 12 percent in 2018. Tax reductions in line with government targets in 2018 continue, as restaurant meals and internet, as well as fish VAT, are reduced to 5 percent. Overall, we can say that the 2018 budget presented by the Government presents us with a stable and growing economy. In 2018, the current calculations show that for the sixth year we can expect an increase of more than the EU average, which is estimated to be 4.3 per cent. The Committee on European Affairs delivered the following opinion during the detailed debate. With regard to the examination of the obligations arising from EU law, the Committee concluded that the bill meets the main criteria of Maastricht, i.e. the general government deficit below 3 per cent of the total national product and the government debt falling in proportion to the total national product. Dear House, Mr President, The 2018 budget is the budget of the people from work, with which all Hungarians can take a step forward. On the basis of the summarised opinions expressed, I would ask this House to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-71	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented, which will be presented by four Members within a total timeframe of 30 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2017-06-12-72	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The haste and the haste lead to error, and I make this mistake in a consistent manner, as Vice-President Szűcs said, once at the committee meeting, so I apologize. However, in the political content of the speech, by replacing some of the numbers, I think it could have been the case then, so I would refrain from saying the full speech, and I have attached this to the minutes, and thank you for the criticism of the representatives of the government, and you are right. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-12-73	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs. You have the floor.
u2017-06-12-74	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Our minority opinion, which was said at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, is this: the present presentation of the bill does not comply with the most fundamental budgetary principles. Thus, the principles of transparency, transparency and comparability, as well as reasonable detail, are substantially violated as regards the structure, method and time of submission of the bill. In no way can we support the practice of having the government negotiate and adopt next year's budget law before the adoption of the previous budget report and discharge law for the second year. [[14.00]] In this regard, the Secretary of State pointed out to me that since all the previous year's figures are already known, in fact, there would be no obstacle to a closing act. But I'll ask you with respect now, I mean, why don't you just submit it? Let's discuss the closing accounting law first, according to the corresponding order, even in March-April, when you are ready with the numbers. So, overall, we have to say that this is a completely unprofessional procedure that serves only the government's political communication goals and is part of the public spectacle. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In particular, we cannot accept the fact that the 2018 budget is a budget for those living in work. Unfortunately, the opposite is true, because on the basis of the draft, the biggest losers of next year will be the early and hardworking small people, such as those employed in the public sector. For the tenth year, the civil servant's basic salary will not increase next year, the civil servant's wage bill remains unchanged, and I must add, the minimum retirement pension. In doing so, the government will continue to implement the requirements of the shameful IMF pact, despite the fact that the loan from it has long been repaid by the country. Thus, the wages of public sector workers are now only a quarter, a fifth, or perhaps even less than those with similar employment in Western countries. In this form, the civil servant pay table has lost its meaning, as about 80 percent of all pay classes and grades - at least 80 percent next year - will receive the minimum wage - class 1 - or a guaranteed minimum wage, which will cause a significant wage tension, while only strengthening employee poverty and career abandonment. I know that this has also been said that a large number of civil servants are also receiving a bonus, but, Mr State Secretary, the system of allowances is not a solution. If we want to help people, we should change the pay sign itself now. I add this despite the fact that there are indeed civil servants who receive their salary on the basis of a certain type of career model. To do this, I can give you the example that a 55-year-old, 33-year-old teacher who has worked for 33 years will now receive HUF 1528 more than last year if we correct his salary compared to the increase in the number of hours required. So, so much for career models, not to mention the life model of paramedics: what we promise, we take away from them. And this is definitely an unworthy situation, I think. Back to what I said about the civil servant payroll, the system of allowances is not the answer. A bonus isn't a salary, it's a charity, it's a small supplement, but a pension, it's not going to make a living. At the same time, we see that in the draft budget, there would be scope for so much wage increases. We propose the elimination of unnecessary and harmful visual investment; the elimination and significant reduction of general and stability reserves in the government and sector ministries; the withdrawal of support from Eximbank, which finances friendly ruts, and the rethinking of the role of the financial institution. Let's just say this comes up in connection with another law on the basis of the law establishing the budget. We also propose a substantial reduction in the public service contribution, i.e. the financing of government slave media and the abolition of the Rogan propagandaistery. The hundreds of billions of forints thus saved - in our understanding it would be HUF 640 billion - should be spent on rural development, among other things. In this respect, we have tabled hundreds of amendments. And I would add that these are all well-founded proposals, because we have formulated them on the basis of local needs, and we really need them. We have asked Mayors and Members what are the very important, very necessary and years and decades behind developments, which they are asking for in vain, but they do not receive any money. So all of our amendments tabled were based on this concept. It is also our view that health funding, education money should be increased; a housing programme should be launched and the VAT on child-rearing goods should be reduced. I would also like to add that there should also be a significant increase in support for Community transport companies. The question is that the compulsory loss compensation that the municipalities have to bear is part of the fiscal law as an opportunity for the municipalities to apply for. This is 2 billion forints for rural community transport companies, a little more forints for Budapest, but both, however you look at it, are extremely small. A city with larger county rights needs to make up for hundreds of millions of forints in the community transport company in order to maintain the already very low quality of service, even though if there is something necessary to keep the countryside alive, it is to a large extent in addition to creating jobs that people can get to these jobs. That is why this should be helped so that there should not be an insufferable burden for individual municipalities to provide these services with an adequate level of quality. I really don't like it when we play Budapest against the countryside and vice versa. It is necessary to support the public transport company in Budapest, in addition to the fact that its development resources, which are also well founded, and now, unfortunately, it is a matter of life and death whether these resources will be found, because we know what the state of the M3 line is, its technical state; so the government should provide these, too, and it is unnecessary to go into silly prestige faces, and to withdraw this otherwise necessary support from the capital because of some totally foggy purpose or foggy idea. That is what I wanted to say in general; and, I'm sorry, let me add that, of course and obviously, we proposed that the basic payment rate be linked to the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, because then it would make sense to talk about a pay table, because then everyone who belongs to a different pay grade or class would get different wages. In addition, we have proposed to increase the civil servant's salary base, and now we need a major increase compared to the 2008 rate. We have now established it in 45,000 forints, and according to some calculations it is now possible to expect 55,000 forints. I think, for example, that the people who are helping us in this House from the background, in an invisible way, deserve it too - for they are very much civil servants - to receive the wages that they deserve for what they are working for, decently, with honor, with industrious and extraordinary devotion. And, of course, we have also proposed to increase cafeteria benefits; as in the social sphere, we have now promised to build a career model for many years, slowly decades. And, Mr Secretary of State, once again, it is clear that local governments are not or are only given a very large share of the wage surplus that they would otherwise be entitled to because of the minimum wage, a guaranteed minimum wage. If you wanted to solve this problem, Annex 2, Annex I, is amended as follows: He would have been included in point 1 of the general operating funding in Hungarian. But that was not the case - certain norms were raised, but they were then reduced, and will also be given to the municipalities in a separate form, but only in part. But if that is not the case, Mr Secretary of State, then do it now, at the last minute, that this motion could be amended in this way. You should put it where it belongs. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-06-12-75	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, notary. Dear Parliament, Two other Members undertook to present the minority opinion, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck and Ms Zsuzsanna Szelényi, 18 minutes and 50 seconds. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. [[14.10]]
u2017-06-12-76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian budget should be for people from work, domestic entrepreneurs and those in need of help, but it is not. There is no real, full-scale wage increase, it does not solve the wage crisis, in some places it only raises. He continues to support only those who can manage themselves and those who need help. Instead of Hungarian small businesses, it primarily favours foreign large companies and supports them, and the families of the Fidesz-neighbors can move forward instead of Hungarian families. The cuts between 2010 and 2013 will continue to be included in the budget. Disabling education and health resources, reducing social spending, environmental protection or other areas of key importance for social health have been reduced. The domestic economy has not been strengthened in recent years, despite all the government's arguments. And the state has a bottomless octopus who smokes, privateises public funds on all channels, and these public funds should strengthen the situation of workers and domestic businesses, so that the budget can actually be made alive from work, not just for some privileged people and groups. The Hungarian economy, and even the public sector, have been dependent on some external sources for many years, and these resources will be exhausted in a foreseeable time. The main source is the inflow of EU funds. The government is speeding up the use of EU funds of 3-5 percent of GDP, even in a short-sighted way. The other main external source is exports of multinational companies that we have established, but this is uncertain and crisis-sensitive - I think you do not dispute that - and it also takes away a lot of public money. The government favours them with strategic partnerships, ten billion investment and so-called job creation grants, tightening the labour code, repression of trade unions and exploited workers, tax cuts. The third external source is the return of Hungarians working abroad. The importance of this resource will increase, but there is nothing to be happy about. The work, creativity and added value of foreign workers are very lacking in Hungary. The HUF 1000 billion returned in 2015 is almost 3 per cent of GDP, and is slowly competing with the importance of EU money. On the basis of the draft budget for 2018, we see that the government does nothing to reduce these dependences, although 2018 is perhaps the last year when something can be done. There would be a source to start positive changes, the first of which would be wage increases, which would make the entire domestic economy and society as a whole more viable and efficient. However, the necessary changes require a substantial re-alignment of the budget. This year, too, the LMP proposes to reschedule by showing everything in the budget, i.e. making responsible proposals. The basis for the changes to the tax system, as we have said many times, but we will say many times before, is the abolition of an unfair, one-key tax. Instead, the LMP would introduce a progressive income tax that would reduce the tax burden in the lower income categories and thus benefit 90% of taxpayers. Progress is necessary to ensure that society does not break up, because we see society breaking up at an accelerated rate every day to fewer and fewer rich and more poor. Progressivity is necessary in order for society to become more fragmented. Everyone's income would be tax-free up to the minimum wage, from there to the average wage, a gross tax of 12 per cent up to HUF 300 thousand, a tax rate of 24 per cent on income above the average wage, accompanied by a reduction of 4 per cent of employees' health contributions. As a result, the net of the minimum wage would increase by HUF 26,000, the net of the average wage would increase by HUF 38,000, and even the double average wage would increase by HUF 23,000. It is necessary to remove harmful and unnecessary costs and to close the money taps. LMP would restore the corporate tax top key, which means we'd make it multi-key again. We would also eliminate the discount for sports purposes, the bank tax, increase the mining fee, the environmental charge, the product fee and the toy tax. We also expect more revenue from VAT by reducing the frauds previously estimated at a thousand billion. We would eliminate the propagandaistery, the investment adventures of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, Eximbank, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Hungaroring Zrt. support. At the public media, we'd just leave as much as they do public tasks. And, of course, we would stop the unnecessary investments; these include Paks II, the project "Liget Budapest II.", the Puskás Stadium, the moving to the Castle, the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, the Ludovika Campus, some of the programme "Modern Cities"; there are plenty. Instead of a part of the excessive CSOK, we would build public apartments, and instead of excessive motorway construction, we would transfer 100 billion HUF to the rural lower road network. Instead of a part of community service, we would develop vocational training and adult education, Paks II. instead of creating a green investment fund that would support public energy efficiency and renewable energy production. All these measures would generate some HUF 2300 billion in funding to achieve much more important public goals, such as social wage increases, HUF 300 billion in wage development and careers in the public sector, higher education scholarships, support for rural colleges, a stagnating family allowance and child increase, regular maintenance of national parks, wage increases for general doctors and paramedics, and more. We trusted or hoped that a number of good proposals would be accepted by the majority of governments, but similar to what has happened in recent years: the majority of governments have not adopted one proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2017-06-12-77	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi.
u2017-06-12-78	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, In the framework of this budget debate, we have examined in recent weeks whether Hungary's budget for 2018 can anticipate a perspective that makes young people, future workers and resources want to live here, in this country, to start a family, not abroad. This is one of the most important frameworks to determine whether this budget is good or not. According to our experience and debate, we have come to the conclusion that, no, this budget cannot outline these future prospects for the people of Hungary. It's basically about communicating that the government is in power, and everyone should automatically trust that they will solve their lives. It is a deeply paternalist idea that this budget is implementing. In short, it can also be said that the budget offers bread and circuses in the hope that next year it will receive voters' votes. This budget was made for the election year. It outlined the hope of an economic growth that even the Fiscal Council did not consider justified. It is not based on the better productivity of the Hungarian economy, but on the European Union's strong call for money that it envisages. In our view, this is a forced march, a socialist type of investment dumping, and this is what the government bases Hungary's growth on. [[14.20]] However, this cannot work well, since it is not possible to plan properly and carefully when something is happening at such a pace and in procession. In fact, there are no truly substantial free investments in Hungary. Not only do foreigners not invest in Hungary, but also Hungarian large entrepreneurs, oligarchs, who are constantly filled with liquid money by the government. That is the essence of the Orbán government's economic policy. There is no real domestic-based growth, no continuously improving productivity, no added value for export activity, only at a basic low level of suppliers. This is not real added value. Such investments and long-term plans are not reflected in this budget. No market investments, just EU money. On the other hand, the government offers you very generously, quickly spending all the money, with bad planning, high risk of corruption, huge waste and massive earning. The school system, health care and social systems are under way, because compared to other developments in these sectors, which are basically designed to invest in the future, the government is far from spending as much money as is necessary. There is no lending in Hungary, ownership is not stable, it is a non-inspiring and motivating system for entrepreneurs. What the government has spent today is not a reliable and reassuring future investment. This is the biggest problem with this budget. In fact, we eat Hungary's future bread in advance, we don't plant wheat, we don't train bakers. It also shows how huge the government is spending on large investments. How true this is: Forint 106 billion to Paks Power Plant, only to Puskás Stadium 64 billion to modern cities 150 billion, to Budapest-Belgrád's never-return railway line 4 billion, to manage mass immigration 75 billion - twice as much as the rescue service receives - to the Liget project, to the 30 billion to the Rogan campaign ministry 20 billion. We can only compare this with the fact that next year's election campaign will bring 6 billion forints to the entire country. No, it's not a budget for security and soothing, it's a budget for stealing and a traditional country with no inspiration and no incentive. We, together, have tabled proposals for amendments that basically served the general purpose of ensuring that the government is not able to steal people's money in the form of large investments, but rather to invest in the future, that Hungary's economic competitiveness should grow; ultimately, young people, the indicators of the future and its signalling system do not want to leave Hungary. We proposed a transfer of HUF 600 billion. None of our proposals were supported by the government. We were suggesting that the government increase school support, that the kids don't drop out of school, that everyone learns until they're 18, and that everyone gets what they need in person. Some of our proposals were to increase the number of graduates, since today, those who have a degree and who can quickly learn new professions will surely find a job in the world. We have suggested that women and men should have the same opportunities in Hungary. We are convinced that it is a perspective country where women and men have equal opportunities and opportunities in the home, in the workplace and in the country. This is what the future refers to; women must also be involved in technology and science. This can increase Hungary's GDP by 2-3 percent in ten years. These are considerations that this government has no idea of. In addition, we have proposed a fairer pension system, social benefits, an increase in family allowances and an increase in pensions for those with the lowest pensions, so that there is no pension poverty in Hungary. You've all swept our proposals off the table. It is regrettable that in Hungary the approach that is basically built in the long term cannot be implemented by the government, and therefore the long-term consequences of this will continue to be met in the future. According to the Joint, the purpose of the budget is not to distribute bread and circuses. We are not trying to maximize the present and leave nothing for the generations after us. We want a country where we equip our young people with knowledge and abilities, with intellectual and financial resources, so that Hungary is not a third-rate supplier, but a developing, inspiring and motivating environment for all young people. Such a youth will be able to support a growing generation of elderly people. We are preparing to create reserves, and more and more people think that living here in this country is worth living. This budget, the government budget for 2018, cannot guarantee this future for Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-12-79	Thank you, Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author, Peter Benő Banai, if he wishes to speak now. [[Dr. Péter Banai Benő says yes.]] But before I give the floor, I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that he has a time frame of ten minutes to speak in the debate and to present a possible closing phrase. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-06-12-80	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Very briefly, I would like to talk about two things. One of my comments concerns the legality and transparency of the budget. I would like to note that the proposal for a budget law submitted by the Government on 2 May has been classified as sound and transparent by bodies independent of the government, and that not only the government, and not only the State Audit Office and the Fiscal Council, believe that this budget is transparent and well-founded, but also international organisations in their projections for 2018 bring back in practice the budget figures that the government has calculated. Is the 2016 base, so to speak, known or not? We know the numbers. Last year, the Hungarian economy expanded by 2 percent above the EU average. The deficit under the EU methodology developed at a level that was even more favourable than 2 per cent, at 1.8 per cent. This brings us to the issues concerning the content of the budget for next year. I would like to note that the budget contains surpluses in virtually all areas, whether it be education, whether it be health, whether it be safety. As regards the so-called merits and credibility of the opposition proposals, allow me to present some amendments. When the opposition talks about credibility, it should be noted that, for example, the Jobbik fraction proposed a transfer of HUF 1311.6 billion from the reserve forecast for extraordinary government measures of HUF 110 billion. The same is true with regard to the National Defence Fund. The Hungarian Socialist Party proposed a transfer of HUF 152.8 billion out of HUF 71,3 billion of funding for the public media service. For example, as regards the proposals of independent Members, we see more than 200 billion transfers than the 110 billion appropriations for extraordinary government measures, or a large part of the HUF 60 billion allocation of the National Defence Fund would be virtually eliminated. And I could get back to the line. My statement is that it is possible to criticise the government's proposal on the amount of resources to be allocated, but if we look at the submitted bill factually, we can see a number of surpluses in the areas of criticism. And the proposals put forward by opposition representatives, with the exception of LMP, were all proposals that would be virtually unenforceable. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: There is one among the government's proposals!]] Or if the Honourable Parliament were to accept them, we could expect by far a deficit of more than 3 percent and another excessive deficit procedure. This is why the government did not support the opposition's amendments. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-12-81	I thank the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, for his speech. I would like to inform you that at the end of the debate, you will have 7 minutes and 1 second to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now take place in the time frame on the agenda, as shown on the table. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. [[14.30]]
u2017-06-12-82	Mr President, Dear House, It is very difficult, in such a short time frame, to give a meaningful share of all our important comments on the most important bill of the year, and we have already tried to do so during the general debate. To suggest to the Secretary of State that, where appropriate, I would spend several times the burden of emergency reserves or reserve reserves in amendments to the opposition groups, I must make a few comments, and I must respond to this. The Secretary of State understands perfectly this profession and this profession, and he knows very well that many of the hundreds of opposition amendments are alternatives to each other, so one of them does not necessarily need to be implemented. Therefore, simply putting numbers together does not give a true picture of the systemic changes and positive changes that would take place within the Hungarian economy, if at least some of the improving and sensible modifiers had been taken on board. But don't tell me that more than a thousand opposition amendment proposals [[Dr. Vas Imre: He wasn't that oppositional!]] In addition, it was five fidesz amendments that deserve to be accepted professionally, in substance and in form. I would therefore like to raise a number of issues which are attached to a specific amendment proposal which has simply remained unanswered by you, who is still a respected authority in the budgetary profession. We must say that if only the Secretary of State or anyone else is looking at our amendment on home creation, you simply cannot answer typical, simple Hungarian people's typical, existing problems. When, therefore, even in the general debate, people in the upper middle class, or in a more fortunate position, responded to specific facts and figures such as the CSOK, there is the discount system of the CSOK, which only those in the upper middle class or in a more fortunate position can use, then we have known why this formula is incomplete, because it is also seen, and those in the banking sphere know a little bit, and they see that if someone does not earn at least 350 thousand forints net or a little above, then there is essentially no chance of using the full benefit mass of CSOK, because they refuse to enter into a contract with some excuse. We would like to respond to the problems of typical Hungarian obsession, the housing crisis, Mr State Secretary, which affects the majority of Hungarian people, so it is not the full mass of CSOK who are able to use it. Of course, you know that 51 percent of Hungarians who have children are raising their children in a living family, and for these families, housing poverty - it is very difficult to argue with these numbers - is the difficulty for them to not only be able to use CSOK, they are simply struggling with rents, which is why their debts are constantly coming into a loan trap where one is forced to replace the other. The direct result of this is two things: on the one hand, a constant demand for borrowing, which makes these families impossible, and, on the other hand, a catastrophic process that culminates in so-called foreign exchange lending, evicting thousands and tens of thousands of families. Meanwhile, we all read on the news, there are 550,000 vacant properties in Hungary today, obviously on three property legs. No one wants to touch private property, who is sane, but there is also public and municipal property here, and we do not see that the government would at all examine the possibility that if only 10 percent of this property could be used, we would be able to ease the supply shortage of rent apartments. We, unlike you, not only want to support the acquisition of own property, but we do not need to completely destroy the forms of this support, but we see the amazing rent shortage that can be solved with a housing and home creation programme. There is a budget for this, and we have not received a reasonable argument as to why our amendment is being swept down. Similarly, with regard to Hungary's current most serious problem - which is our population loss - we have also tabled an amending proposal, which I am referring to directed reproductive processes, where I say that the Hungarian budget should support those Hungarian people who, even in the current difficult economic conditions, even though they are repelled by health or other problems, but wish to have children. I say that there is not a large enough mass of tools and weapons in their hands and could be given in order to succeed in achieving this commitment, because this must be the most important thing for Hungary. However, what we see is that we are submitting an amendment to this, and you are rejecting it without bone, usually without justification, and when the justification comes, it is completely false, because if you refuse to support the flask baby program, with the words that you are giving family tax incentives, well, it doesn't hold up anywhere. We also support, retain, or even extend, the system of family tax incentives in some respects, but the fact that a flask baby program, the reason why a tenancy program from this budget cannot be supported, cannot explain to us, since Jobbik's experts, which has been said several times, have found hundreds of billions of forints of funds, either vaguely or unnecessarily spent, of which only a part, 20-30 percent of the redirection of these changes and changes could go through the system. I have now directly brought up those that cannot be the object of political parties' debates, as we see that there is no right- or left-wing credit damage, that may be the world vision, but we must all help, in terms of the population crisis, the right- and the left-wings will both die out of this country if we do not find a solution to this problem. So there are points of national strategy where, Mr Secretary of State, we should join together, find answers, not just sweep away from what appears to be a professional, but not necessarily a professional, but rather a political one, along the lines of sensible proposals made here by opposition representatives. It's still not too late, even at the last minute. It can therefore be said that the current opposition forces, just as they did in the Fidesz opposition, spend more than the Orbán government requests for their own pocket money in the emergency reserve, the National Security Fund, anywhere, but we have marked in this system the hundreds of billions that could be transferred could be used. I therefore ask that these recommendations be taken into account. I would like to emphasise once again: 51 percent of families who have children in Hungary must do so under the minimum living standards, so they are in a very difficult, everyday war situation. I'm not sure it's the $10 million discount on the CSOK that brings about a systemic change. We understand that you expect certain social groups to benefit from it, that it will have a spinning effect on the economy, and that will draw all the rest, but the numbers and the facts have not proved this in recent years. Demographic winter is now decades of process, so we must intervene now, not enough in the next budget period. That is why I recommend to you not only our amendments, but also that you finally accept that, on national strategic issues, sometimes there is a need to put aside the arguments that appear to be professional but rather political and that want to destroy the opposition by all means, since these national strategy goals have been being sabotaged in Hungary for 27 years. Let us not necessarily wait for a Jobbik government to start implementing them, it is still possible to make a difference. There should be so much elegance and flexibility from this government that the opposition amendment really makes sense, I can say that it has no policy-free goals, at least until the negotiating phase, but I also miss this, because we simply did not receive any meaningful answers to our questions about the fates of Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-12-83	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I now give the floor to Congressman Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz.
u2017-06-12-84	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of the draft law on the central budget for 2018, I think it is important to emphasise once again the most important objectives and objectives of the budget. As every year, so far, when the 2018 budget was created, this year, the government's aim was to allow everyone to take a step forward, as well as to ensure that economic growth is not only perceived by large companies, but, as far as possible, that the Hungarian families and the Hungarian working people can benefit from it as much as possible. The tax relief system for Hungarian families is unique in Europe too, so it is quite safe to say that, with some response to my colleague who spoke before me. In particular, in the case of families with two, three or more children, we introduced a system of discounts in the previous years, on the basis of which childbearing does not, in fact, mean the commitment of poverty today, as previously observed in Hungary in the years prior to 2010. [[14.40]] From 1 January 2018, we tried to focus again on the families raising the two children, so the tax relief rate will continue to increase for them, and so, together with previous increases, if the amount is calculated on an annual basis, the income of the families raising the two children will actually increase by approximately HUF 420 thousand per year. If we are to look at the system of family support that has been constantly expanding since 2010, we can see that in our country - also in European comparison - unparalleled family and home-building subsidies have been introduced in recent years. We do not see the possibility of solving the demographic turn in front of us in the introduction of migrants, but we want to see and do the future in this respect in a successful direction in the birth of as many Hungarian children as possible. The figures also show the welcome fact that Hungary is now able to spend almost twice the 2.5 per cent average for OECD countries, 4.7 per cent of GDP on family support, which is otherwise the highest value in the European Union. So much for the direction in which family support has been extended in Hungary since 2010, and I think that this should be in the common interest of all of us, and it really must be of greater interest to parties. It should also be pointed out that Hungary is already ranked fourth among those countries where birth numbers are rising in parallel with economic growth. We know that the fertility rate has moved from 1.1 to 1.5 thanks to the measures taken in recent years, but 1.5 is still not the number that we can be satisfied with, so the goal is to achieve a fertility rate of 2-2.1. I think these measures point in this direction every year in each budget. Looking at the budget figures for 2018, it is also clear that, by the way, pensions, family support and the social area will receive HUF 287 billion more funds for the next year. Another positive thing is that you can get HUF 15 billion more for home creation, HUF 83 billion for security, HUF 102 billion for health care, HUF 81 billion for education, HUF 205 billion for economic development, HUF 30 billion for road renovations in 2018 compared to this year's amounts. So in each area, we can see that there is an increase, growth, increase, which, I think, can also be a shared joy for all of us, and we can indeed all be happy about that. In addition, tax reductions and wage increases will continue. Since the general debate has already been held in May, I would like to share with you a few thoughts on the key amendments tabled to the proposal for the remainder of my speech, as a result of which, for example, there have been support for proposals for additional resources for the Carpathian Basin Tour of the Hungarian State Opera House and for the museum garden rehabilitation of the Hungarian National Museum. Or it was submitted with a Commission amendment to the Unlimited! EUR 142 million additional funding for the programme and HUF 188 million additional support for the first successful language exam for young people in the presentation. The Committee on Budgets, acting in the role of the Legislative Committee, submitted a summary amendment. The motion sets out a number of changes, so with your permission, I would like to highlight and draw attention to some of the amendments that I consider to be relevant. According to the summarised amendment proposal, for example, the additional funding for the Paks II project's so-called non-fence investments, such as the relocation of a visitor's centre, the implementation, construction, and construction of a service road, has been provided in accordance with the proposal. In order to strengthen the Office for Immigration and Asylum, this office can also receive additional resources, the daily situation of the Actual Policy, I think, justifies and supports this in any way. The proposal also provides additional resources for organisations of persons with disabilities in order to ensure that their tasks are more effective. The proposal also aims to ensure that support for the genres of folk culture creating a community can be made even more pronounced through the establishment of the Sándor Csoóri Fund. A further change is the extension of the so-called student childcare fee for the childcare fee by one year, so that from 1 January 2018 to the age of two years instead of the child, the amendment proposal also creates the source of this. As part of ensuring the cultural autonomy of Hungarian nationalities, the number of public education and cultural institutions taken over by national authorities is constantly increasing in Hungary, which wants to contribute even more strongly to the institutional, investment, renovation and tender self-financing framework. The amending proposal will separate and provide HUF 10 billion of additional funding in the 2018 budget in order to further increase the funding level of GP services. In addition, I highlighted another amendment here in my speech: the amendment aims to provide cover for the reduction of student credit for young people with children, i.e. student loans, by setting up a top-up appropriation. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, without the need for completeness, the additional resources I have highlighted and allocated for the purposes I have just listed, I think they are justified in any way, serve a good purpose and are therefore eligible. That is why I ask you to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-85	Thank you very much, Congressman Mihály Witzmann. I now give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP Group.
u2017-06-12-86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In the budgetary debate, we sat here together quite a lot in Parliament's Chamber, and we have heard several times that this is a seriously prepared, professionally well-structured budget. This was the week of 17 May, when - as I understand it - the family meeting in Budapest, where Viktor Orbán announced a very large family support system, and it turned out that the measures announced had no budgetary coverage. Minister Mihály Varga said he didn't have to, because there will be a source of this during the year. Then it was only a few days, and we saw that the budget had been amended, because it only had to be planned for the 18 - year budget. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] Secretary, are you serious or not serious? So did they really prepare the budget for 2018, or did Viktor Orbán wake up this morning, thought big ones, should this be planned, said big measures? In the meantime, it turned out that if we dismantled this package of measures, we would see that the expansion of the family tax relief for the two children was announced in 2014 during the elections and started to be introduced for four years from 2016. Viktor Orbán has announced nothing new. Then Viktor Orbán announced that they would provide an unprecedented framework for the nursery. Viktor Orbán announced in 2013 and 14 when the elections were approaching. Then we see that thousands of settlements still lack nursery services to this day. Then Viktor Orbán announced that a family political institute would be set up. The KSH has one, Mr. Secretary of State, and I would like to point out that the Institute for Family, Youth and Population Policy has been closed down by you. Then what are we talking about? They shut down an institution and then announce it as a campaign stunt to reinvent it under a different name. At the time, Viktor Orbán said that they had finally realized that there was a very big problem with the birth number of children, and that the grandchildren of the Ratko era still needed a way to get them to have another child. Just to make it clear to everyone who these people are: we are talking about women born from 73 to 77, especially women. Think about it, they're either approaching 40 years, or these ladies are over 40 years old. I think we should do something else, Mr. Secretary, to figure it out, because I think there are few people over the age of 40 who are thinking about having a baby. And we can also see from the numbers, the statistical figures that exactly after this period, the birth rate in Hungary begins to decrease dramatically. These young people will not be able to increase the birth rate. For years, we have been constantly saying how to encourage young people to have children, and this has already been mentioned before me before, and here is the support for fertility treatments, the flask program. In 2015, they declared that they wanted strong support, even Gábor Zombor, Secretary of State, did not double the 2 billion forints, and now the elections are coming, and they realized that something should be done. Mr. Secretary, this is a frivolous budget, and it's frivolous how it's done. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-06-12-87	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP Group. [[14.50]]
u2017-06-12-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We thank Putin's puppet government for submitting this anti-national budget and for giving us the opportunity to represent the interests of Hungary's society against you. As usual, it is worth saying a few words about this budget that you have said to you in a few billion-dollar pen, in order to create a chance for further enrichment in your own interests, as it has been in the last seven years. Most of the time, they say the word "family budget." Yeah, I agree with that, the only problem is that those few families can be listed as having a budget. Árpád Habony and his family; Viktor Orbán and his dear family and the budget of his Swiss bank accounts; Antal Rogán and his brilliant wife's budget; Lőrinc Mészáros and his family's budget; Sándor Csányi and his family's budget; György Matolcsy and his family's budget; Péter Polt's wife and his children's budget; Andy Vajna and his dear wife's budget - I trust that next year will bring him another Lamborghini, if the budgetary efforts so far have been created - ; Csaba Csetényi and his dear family's budget; Gábor Liszkay and his dear family's budget; and the rural Fidesz Döbödik, Voldemorts, Trafyos and landlords would not obviously miss the opportunity to do so, since you have no other purpose than to combine the budget with the budget with the budget of Gábor Liszkay and its dear family; and the number of Fideszs who are trying to keep together, while giving up eight million Hungarians and eight million people to the Hungarian budgets. Therefore, if we are talking about whose budget this is: the budget of Hungarian billionaires, because obviously in the support system, in the fiscal transfers, even in the modifiers, this is the target group they are trying to target with the budget. It is obvious that the budget of pride and arrogance, because the budget system where we try to identify resources with more than a hundred amendments by our group alone, how to represent the interests of Hungarian voters in this budget, how to improve people's ability to create a central budget and improve their quality of life, you reject everything with the policy of pride and arrogance, as if none of you were worthy to consider it in substance. Obviously, it is the budget of the few hundred families close to the government who have been rich so far, and now with this campaign budget, they will be able to continue to make money in the next period. Accordingly, this is obviously also a budget of stupidity and narrow-mindedness at some level, as you are giving up Hungarian voters, giving up Hungarian families, giving up the Hungarian countryside with this budget, and creating the opportunity to hold on to the last little straw as much money as possible to the narrow interest group who has the 1.8-1.9 voting base that you still have, at least keep it together. Obviously, asking the opposition to support such a budget is not normal, because this budget is actually selling the future once again, and it is a waste of the future. In any case, as we have heard in the minority opinions of the opposition, you have renounced the population of the Hungarian countryside, you have renounced the Hungarian villages. With this budget, it is confirmed that the renovation of the four-digit small roads is not necessary. You don't think there's a need for schools that you've already partially closed, you don't have to reopen them, you don't have to deal with the damaged railway network, you don't have to deal with what you've been doing so far... [[Interviews from Fidesz, among them: What are you talking about? György Balla: What country do you live in? You don't have one sentence that has anything to do with reality.]] I'm talking about the 2018 budget and your government activities, if that's not clear. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I am talking about how all this budget and government effort contribute to the depopulation of the countryside. Your government's budgets to date have helped to emigration, depopulation, and obviously this budget is helping again, and for the few people we've listed, for the families, as you say, that the family budget, and for those who have the opportunity to get richer. Accordingly, after the only amendment that would improve the lives and fate of the Hungarian people has not been supported, the Group of Possibly Other Politics does not want to support this budget, and we want to say, outside of every forum, parliament or parliament, how you play the public wealth for yourself and your interest groups. Unfortunately, this is probably what the next period will be about, and I am truly sorry that there is still a man to accept this budget from your benches. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-12-89	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, An independent Member may now speak for the first time. I do not see an applicant; then we will have the voice of the national minority committee in a five-minute time frame. I give the floor to the German ethnic advocate Ritter Imre, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate it into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2017-06-12-90	Danke Shön. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nr. T/15381. uber den ungarischen Haushalt für Jahr 2018 - im Zusammenhang mit den Nationalitätenbedarf übergreifende Teilen - erörtere. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the T/15381 on Hungary's central budget for 2018. Bill No.2 on the parts of the legislation concerning ethnic needs. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary is the House Rule 44-45. It held a detailed discussion of the bill on the basis of Article 5 of the Act. Our committee for the bill is the resolution house rule 32. Having examined the provisions of the notification referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure, it concluded that they were in conformity with the rules of the House of Decisions. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. [[He replaced the gullible Dezső in the notary seat with Loránt Hegedűs.]] Our Commission has not taken a position on the amendments tabled to the bill, but has expressed an intention to make further amendments. The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities is the 45th Resolution House Rule. On 23 May 2017, he closed the detailed discussion of the bill. On the day following the close of the detailed debate, the government meeting supported a request for an amendment of approximately HUF 1.5 billion for Hungarian nationalities, the internal distribution of which was agreed by the Ministry of National Economy with the representative of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, accepted our requests for internal distribution, and the one and a half billion increase in minority support was incorporated into the draft amending proposal of the Committee on Budgets. The reduction of the HUF 3.5 billion amendment proposal of the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary to HUF 1.5 billion means, on the one hand, that the start of the minority education programme should be postponed by one year, and, on the other hand, that we will be able to make a significant 200 percent increase in national minority education programmes smaller than planned by the national children's educators, and in 2018, as the starting year of the minority kindergarten teacher program, we will be able to start any meaningful changes in the funding page in the national kindergarten teacher training that we planned in the programme. Thirdly, from the reduced amount, we can provide a moderate, but noticeable increase in support compared to the base to the minority civil society sector, local minority self-governments and increased investment and renovation frameworks to national and local authorities, as well as national minority public education institutions that they maintain. In the event of the adoption of the summarised amendment proposal submitted by the Committee on Budgets and the proposed legislation on the 2018 Central Budget, as amended, it can be said that the funding of less than HUF 4 billion to the 13 Hungarian nationalities in the 2014 central budget, together with the 2018 central budget, has already increased to HUF 10 billion to HUF 377.7 million, i.e. more than two and a halffold. On behalf of all 13 Hungarian nationalities, I would like to thank the Hungarian government, but also all parliamentary factions, for this support increased by HUF 6.7 billion over the four years, because the needs of Hungarian nationalities have always been unanimously supported and excluded from the topics of parliamentary daily political battles. [[15.00]] In the last hundred years, there has been no increase in the amount and amount of support for Hungarian ethnicities in one cycle. Thank you again. On this basis, of course, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary agrees with, and supports, the draft central budget bill for 2018, and we ask the House to approve the amendment and the bill. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-91	Thank you very much, Mr Ritter. I ask a little patience from my fellow Members. There are still more than five minutes of the MSZP Group's timeframe. First, I give the floor to the candidate, Mr Nándor Gúr, to the notary.
u2017-06-12-92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This budget, the 2018 budget, whoever you say, is a budget for corruption and injustice, not a budget for the benefit of workers. It's a budget for some families, pereputty and friends. It is very simple, you just have to look at the percentage of budget expenditure, say, between 2010 and 2018. It is necessary to look at what was spent on public operations and welfare functions in 2010 and what they intend to translate in 2018. In 2010, 14,1 percent of the total budget was spent on public operations and 17,1 percent in 2018. Thus, the 2010 figure, plus 20% of the figure, is used for public operation. If you look at what you want to use to ensure welfare functions, while it exceeded 61 percent in 2010 within the budget, it will reach about 7 percent less in 2018, 54 percent. Compared to 2010, there is virtually a 20% reduction in the financing of welfare functions. So it's not random that it's just friends that can only be interpreted as the budget of pereputty in its own catchment area. While interesting comparisons can also be made as to what they did with the forint between 2010 and 2018. They broke down, weakened the forint. Compared to 266 forints, the forint is now around 310 forints in relation to the euro. But it's also interesting that you keep talking about wage increases, minimum wage increases, and you've been stealing from these people for five years, because for five years, you've had less buying money than you did in 2010. It is also interesting that, if we consider, let us say, the scale of the integrated resources in the framework of the European Union in a given year, a figure of over 6 per cent compared to GDP, and it can be seen that even if it is extra, even if GDP shows an increase, it is far from as high as that resulting from the inclusion of additional resources. We can also translate the word into Hungarian: a 6 to 6.5 percent EU resource does not bring GDP growth of 4 to 4.5 percent compared to GDP. In English, without European funds, this budget would be minus. What I'm trying to say is that the tax burden of low incomes is increasing, the tax burden of the rich is falling, and it's reduced, as in the previous period, so it's really not the budget of the working people, it's really for the pretentious, it's for the buddies. Well, be proud of it. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-06-12-93	Thank you, Congressman, notary. I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács, MSZP.
u2017-06-12-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister János Lázár said that the country's public opinion is not talking about the budget. But this, please, does not mean that the budget is good, it means that the Ministry of Rogán works hard, and it costs a lot of taxpayers forints not to talk about the budget. I think we agree here on the opposition side that we thank each and every budget debate, because in this case we can represent real social needs against the budget that you have presented. I took one thought out of what my fellow Member Mihály Witzmann said: organisations that help people with disabilities cost more money and they serve good purposes. Now, the Ministry of Human Resources, the Ministry of Human Resources, has all this money. Let's take a look at some of these, and that's your world view. To support the blind and the weak-sighted, 60 million forints, six football teams in Budapest support 3.5 billion forints, 3500 million forints. The Hungarian Sport House receives 266 million forints, while the Red Cross receives 55 million forints. This is your worldview. And the fact that the development tasks related to the implementation of the sports concepts amount to HUF 11 billion and HUF 58 million for the autistic alliance. I believe that nothing more than these figures illustrates that this is injustice and that this is the budget of corruption, because these are the money that disappears hand in hand, that goes to friends, oligarchs, or even to the hobbies of the oligarchs, where, of course, those who do this, who represent it, do not think about others, or just so much. 75 is the multiplier between civil society organisations and sport. Today, sport receives 75 times more money than civil society organisations with disabilities. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-06-12-95	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the floor in the remaining timeframes from the factions. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I give the floor to the forthcoming Secretary of State, Péter Benő Banai, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate within the remaining seven-minute time frame.
u2017-06-12-96	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The government submitted the draft budget to Parliament on 2 May next year. This is the third year in which Parliament could negotiate and accept the budget during the spring period. This will allow families, businesses, public sector players and all stakeholders to see the planned economic and social policy measures once again six months earlier. The character of the budget for 2018 has not changed substantially during the parliamentary hearing, so it remains fair to call the budget of the people living in the labour force. Next year, every Hungarian can take a step forward in his own life, which is made possible by tax cuts and wage increases. Government policy focuses on strengthening the situation of families, maintaining the country's competitiveness and guaranteeing the country's security. The performance of the Hungarian economy creates the background for achieving these goals. Next year, we can expect an economic expansion of 4.3 percent and inflation of 3 percent, while the public debt-to-GDP ratio continues to decline. It was said in the debate that this increase was too high and heated by the state. I recommend to everyone the investment series of the first quarter, which shows an investment rate of more than 30 per cent and an investment growth, which also includes that this is mainly due to private investments. I think this is a good basis for both this year's growth and next year's growth. Next year, the deficit according to the EU methodology can be 2.4 percent, but it can also be seen from the triple structure of the budget that the State will only spend as much as revenue can cover, thereby achieving a zero balance. Its aim remains that all sectors of society can feel the positives of the performance of the Hungarian economy. Next year, there will be hundreds of billions more resources in the fields of education, health care, family support, home creation, economic development and law enforcement, public security. When the increase in the state's operating expenditure is mentioned as opposition representatives, it should be added that this is happening in areas where we see wage increases for public employees next year. One of the lowest personal income tax and corporate tax rates in Europe remains, while the social contribution tax on employers is being reduced. [[15.10]] The wage increase and wage development programmes that have already started continue in certain areas of the public sector, some 560 thousand of the 700 thousand employees of the main central government have received or will receive a wage increase next year. According to the six-year wage agreement last November, the minimum wage and the minimum wage for skilled workers will increase, the tax relief of families will continue to increase, and pensions will continue to maintain their real value. It is recalled that between 2011 and 2016, pensions increased by more than 23 percent on average, their purchasing power improved by around 10 percent due to persistently low inflation, and, like this year, we are calculating the payment of the so-called pension premium next year. The internet access and the VAT rate for restaurant services will continue to decrease, and the VAT rate for fish will be lower from 2018. The state of public finances will remain stable next year after this year and in the coming years, with the key to the already mentioned dynamic economic expansion. At the same time, next year's budget will contain a reserve of more than HUF 200 billion for unforeseen expenditure. Mr President, Honourable Members, As every year, inside and outside Parliament, we could expect negative overtones, political attacks, that some areas should have more and less resources for others next year. This is natural during the budgetary debate, but I repeat that opposition proposals can be considered decisively irresponsible in this respect, since they have not kept the balance of the budget. They would have provided surpluses that were not covered. On behalf of the political faction, the May Other has also been tabled a proposal that goes against two-thirds of the fundamental law, such as the financing of public media. I therefore think that it is our priority that Parliament vote only on responsible budget amendments. The bill before you, I think, is this, and this is the summation of the amendment that the Parliament's Committee on Budgets has submitted to Parliament as the Legislative Committee. Allow me to highlight some elements of this. There is an additional source of funding for tourism development, support for the community-building genre of folk culture is provided by the Csoóri Sándor Fund, and, yes, the new elements of the demographic programme will also be provided by the next year's draft budget law. I agree with the suggestion that this is a matter of national strategy, so allow me to highlight one or two measures from this series of measures. The state will take over HUF 1-1 million from the debt of the mortgaged families in the event of the birth of third and further children. The total debt of young women with student loans is released in the case of three or more children and 50% in the case of two children. It's gonna push your graduate's term by a year, which means it's basically doubling it. It will launch a cradle development programme, which will be funded from EU and domestic sources, and an institute will be set up to examine international best practices in the area of family policy. I therefore think that, yes, it is worth developing a national consensus on these issues. With regard to guided reproduction procedures, this is also financed by the government, so on the Jobbik side, I think that the proposals made are open to the banging of open doors. Dear Parliament, Finally, allow me to thank the committees of Parliament and all Members for their work. I think that on the basis of the work that has been done, we can trust that the 2018 budget to be adopted will help strengthen Hungarian families. With this hope, I trust that the proposal will be accepted by the honourable Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-12-97	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Peter Banai. Dear Parliament, Today's decisions will be decided on the summary amendment proposal. So we will continue our work by taking decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2016 XC on Hungary's central budget for 2017. T/15427 amending Act No. Decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to bill No 1. Draft amending proposal of the Committee on Budgets T/15427/14. T/15427/15. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Committee on Budgets will accept T/15427/14. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment by 122 votes to 53, with five abstentions. Dear Parliament, Under the provisions of the Stability Act and the House Rules, the Speaker of Parliament is the T/15427/16 submitted by the national Parliament. It shall send the proposal for a single budget law to the President of the Budgetary Council. The Council shall inform the Speaker of Parliament within three days of the 25th Stability Act. § 3 opinion. In line with our adopted agenda, the final vote will take place on Thursday's meeting. Next up is the T/15381 on Hungary's central budget for 2018. Decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to bill No 1. Draft amending proposal of the Committee on Budgets T/15381/1235. T/15381/1236. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decisions. I would remind you that in our previous meeting, we decided, by way of derogation from house rules, that the leader of any political group should not be more than ten, the House Rule 48 of the Resolution. It may submit a request pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 4 of this Article. The leaders of the opposition groups made use of the possibility of requesting a reservation of the amendments. We decide on these by group of representatives according to the order given by the faction leaders. The amendments requested for reservation can be accepted side by side. First, we decide to maintain the amendments proposed by the MSZP Group. Amendment No 1067 tabled by Nándor Gúr and Anita Heringes. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 120 against and without abstentions. Amendment No 1088, tabled by Bertalan Tóth and László Szakács. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstentions. Amendment 1125 is proposed by László Varga. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 119 against and without abstentions. Amendment 1183 tabled by Sándor Szabó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstentions. [[15.20]] Amendment 1189 was proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstentions. Amendment 1190 proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 120 against and without abstentions. Amendment 1191 proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 121 against and without abstentions. Amendment 1192 tabled by Bertalan Tóth. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 30 votes in favour, 122 against and 6 abstentions. Amendment No 400 tabled by Sándor Burány. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 123 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 402 tabled by Csaba Tóth. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 31 votes in favour, 128 against and 23 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding to maintain the amendments tabled by the LMP Group. Amendment 1068 was proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstentions. Amendment 1089 was proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstentions. Amendment 1112 was proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstentions. Amendment 1114 was proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 121 against and without abstentions. Amendment 1117 was proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 124 against and without abstentions. Amendment 1134 was proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 37 votes in favour, 123 against and 22 abstentions. Amendment 1147 was proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 120 against and without abstentions. Amendment 1160 was proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 123 against and without abstention. Amendment 1172, proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 123 against and without abstention. Amendment 1174 was proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 123 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding to maintain the amendments tabled by the Jobbik Group. Amendment 1007 was proposed by István Szávay. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 124 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 1024, tabled by Dániel Kárpát. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 123 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 377 tabled by Gábor Staudt and Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 123 against and without abstentions. Amendment 407 proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs and Mr Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 120 against and without abstentions. [[15.30]] Amendment 408 proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs and Mr Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstentions. Amendment 623 tabled by Zsolt Egyed. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstentions. Amendment 732 tabled by Lajos Rig and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 124 against and without abstentions. Amendment No 74 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 124 against and without abstentions. Amendment 923 is proposed by Dóra Dúró and Gergely Farkas. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstentions. Amendment 978, tabled by Lajos Rig and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 125 against and without abstentions. Since the Parliament has not maintained a proposal for an amendment, Honourable Parliament, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Committee on Budgets will accept T/15381/1235. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 124 votes in favour, 55 against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Under the provisions of the Stability Act and the House Rules, the Speaker of Parliament is T/15381/1237 submitted by the national Parliament. It shall send the proposal for a single budget law to the President of the Budgetary Council. The Council shall inform the Speaker of Parliament within three days of the 25th Stability Act. § 3 opinion. In line with our adopted agenda, the final vote will take place on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Now, at 3:34 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. The country has no interest, the university has no interest, so what good is Lex CEU? It's an address. Congressman István Hiller has the floor. [[Noise, more people talking standing up. Dr. Bence Harrach is talking to Péter Retvári.]]
u2017-06-12-98	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! They used to talk about Hungarian higher education, more precisely, about amending the Hungarian Higher Education Act across borders and borders than they have in recent months. Although it would be good to report at the end of the parliamentary session that this great echo means words of praise and recognition, unfortunately the situation has been reversed: from Oxford to Vilnius and from Melbourne to New York, the news was about [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The outraged opinions, the protests that the Hungarian government wants to make impossible one of the most prestigious higher education institutions in the country for said reasons. Dear Secretary of State, The fact is that I would very much like you to listen to me, because this is the Hungarian Parliament. I'm an opposition representative, I have the right to interpel you, I expect you to listen to me. I know you can read because you have to turn in the interpellation, but it's still outrageous that, as a member of the responsible government, you should be aware that I'm interpelling, you're ignoring me. So much for lex CEU. With all due respect, the three minutes, the other half, that I'm going to have to do as an interpellation, you're going to take care of it. To cut the professional debate short, let us state that the argument that the government has made in relation to accreditation and operating conditions does not justify parliamentary debate and legislative amendment, but who is a little familiar with Hungarian higher education matters, he knows that it can be solved by simply filling the gap, which can be dealt with in the competence of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee or the Education Office. The professional justification of the law, Mr. Secretary of State, is zero, it is a political law, it is no accident that we managed to buy an international scandal far beyond the limits of politics: 15 Nobel laureates, dozens of world-famous universities, research institutes, more than a thousand highly registered professors in their profession expressed their incomprehension, dissatisfaction, outrage, and called lex CEU a violation of academic freedom. There is no doubt that this amendment of the law, the entire approach of the government, will cause serious damage to scientific life, to Hungary as a whole, this law will harm our country. I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, who's okay with this. Do you see that the law is against the interests of our country? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] What is the reason why this particularly harmful law has not yet been withdrawn? Please tell me when to withdraw. Thank you very much for your patience.
u2017-06-12-99	Thank you very much, Congressman Hiller, Vice President. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-06-12-100	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Vice President, Dear House, I tried to study both his text and what he said, but there was nothing new about it. The Hungarian government has a very simple position: Hungarian law must be respected by everyone in Hungary, no one can place itself above the law in Hungary. All higher education institutions, whether Hungarians or the Hungarian education of 28 foreign institutions, must comply with Hungarian laws. [[Dr. László Kács: Even if you change it every two weeks? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Even if there is no such thing?]] As we have seen over the past period, there are institutions in which I would like to abide, some where international negotiations have started: in Thailand, Malaysia, China or in the United States of America, they are seeking to comply with the law in another Maryland context, but there was indeed an institution that did not want to negotiate, but wants to withdraw this legislation by force. He also does this because his rector is a very routine politician, because the Rector was already a secretary-general of the Prime Minister during the administration of a former liberal prime minister, here he can go back to the, the 60s, then he worked in the Liberal Party's campaign staff, then he became a candidate for the Liberal Party in Canada, and in 2009 he became president of the Liberal Party, and served as leader of the largest opposition party. Then, when he was voted down, he retired from political life, more precisely repressed. That's why he did it, in a political routine, as an old-fashioned party politician, and led this administrative amendment to a political level, which is why this is a political debate and not a case-management debate. [[15.40]] The Hungarian Rectors' Conference has already stated in its resolution that the polarity around the submitted bill has gained political dimensions that lead far from its original object. The Rector's Conference itself has stated that the debate as it takes place has nothing to do with the bill itself, not its observance, not its details. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: And the Orban!]] According to the Rector's Conference, there was also a general political debate. Obviously, the rector was also a partner in this, and György Soros tried to bring this to the political level as much as possible compared to what all the other universities are doing, who, on the other hand, are really treating it as a technical amendment, and are really trying to comply with the law. The Rector's Conference also stated that it recognises the government's intention to introduce clear rules - I think we agree on that - that the government expects everyone to follow the law, that the Rector's Conference acknowledged this, and that it is in the interest of Hungarian higher education and young people who want to learn more to have a legally clear situation here, because it can be said that there were many characteristics of this relationship, but that it was not transparent and clear. A lot of people didn't know this wasn't about one university, it was about two. This is the only Hungarian university of which there are two, and behind it there is a network of various KFTs and other organizations, which many still do not see through. Many have also said that it is impossible for the government to ask for an international agreement on this, since there can be no educational agreement between the US federal government, Washington and Budapest. Three of these already exist in Hungary: a Convention on Cultural, Educational, Scientific and Technical Cooperation; a 1998 Convention on American International School in Budapest and a 2007 Convention on Exchange of Education. It also turned out to be false news that it was not legally possible to create such a thing. There really was a lex CEU, and György Soros thanked Bálint Magyar for that, with satisfaction, to quote him: this could not have happened without your help. ; and he is lex CEU - György Soros - the 2004 LXI. law, therefore, the law adopted under the MSZP-SZDSZ government, and here he asks that lex CEU should not be deregulated again. It is therefore clear that, like other countries, it is clear in Hungary, as is the case with Dutch and German rules. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , there has been clear, transparent regulation and we expect everyone to comply with the Hungarian laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-12-101	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the vice-president if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-06-12-102	Mr President, No! The part of the argument where you refer to the Rector as a liberal politician, I understand, because when he was a liberal politician in Canada, your governing party was a member of the Liberal International, and consequently, [[Noise and interruptions in the pro-government benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: in 60? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: In '92!]] there could have been many contact points, several contact points before, below and then with the rector. But this isn't about the liberals. This is about the CEU. The argument, Mr Secretary of State, is that relations are neither transparent nor pure, and they simply do not correspond to reality. Everything is clear and everything is clear; it is a high-quality university. Please, it would have been a much braver answer if you'd said the problem was that Soros founded it. Because they don't have a problem with the university, not the rector, not the university, not the international acceptance, they have a problem with that. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It was founded by Soros. That's why I can't accept the answer. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-12-103	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President did not accept the answer. I'll ask the Parliament if it'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 113 votes in favour, 44 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. The solution to animal protection is still waiting for you. It's an address. It is for Congressman Zsolt Egyed.
u2017-06-12-104	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Last year, there have been countless brutal animal abuse that proves that the current legislation on animal protection is outdated. In recent months, I have spoken on several occasions, and I have tabled legislative proposals in order, for example, to give an actual prison sentence instead of a suspended prison sentence to a person who tortures an animal. For this reason, a civil society initiative was set up, based on which to enforce the Animal Protection Act with sufficient seriousness in all cases of violent, life-threatening animal cruelty. The Justice Committee has voted off my bill for many times in the past few days. Each time Jobbik's animal protection proposals are rejected, they themselves become complicit in the abuse of animals. The other problem that should be addressed urgently is to change the current operation of lawn owners, since there are sites that operate profit-orientedly and not their actual task. My proposal under discussion by the Committee on Agriculture, which would find a solution to more efficient operation, has also been voted out, as has been the case in several initiatives, unfortunately. In order to identify the problems and to get closer to the solution, we will discuss the issues raised at the animal protection round table that we regularly convene, together with civilians experienced in animal protection. In spite of our invitation, however, you have refused to appear, from which I can conclude that you are not least interested in animal protection and are not least interested in the fate of animals. Dear Minister, Rather than being confused with their ideas, pay attention to the fact that animal torturers are actually sentenced to imprisonment for what they have done. In addition, take into account Jobbik's budget amendment proposal, which has unfortunately not been taken into account now, which would ensure that animals are spayed. What is not money, but will, is still to be done: the punishment for animal cruelty must be increased. A suspended prison sentence has no deterrent effect on the perpetrator. This is a fundamental condition for a healthy society to treat animals the way that it treats animals in the 21st century. It's to be expected in the first century. Dear Minister, Why do they turn their heads when it comes to animal cruelty? With all due respect, what level of brutal abuse would there be in order for the amendments of the Btk. to finally get to the finish line? Is a change in the operation of the lawn master system expected to be more effective in performing the tasks? Finally, I would like to ask you, Minister, that if you ignore Zsolt Egyed's amendments, you will not offend me, but here I would not wish to enforce my will, but the will of the hundreds of thousands of people who love animals in the country who are doing practically everything to make it a better fate for animals. Unfortunately, at the moment, you are the only obstacles. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-12-105	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas.
u2017-06-12-106	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to deny the Member's statement that the current animal protection legislation would be obsolete. Animal protection legislation has been continuously expanded and updated over the past 18 years, i.e. since the entry into force of the Animal Protection Act, and is currently being modernised in line with the latest scientific achievements and societal expectations. In answer to the Member's questions, I would first of all like to emphasise that we pay particular attention to ensuring the financial resources necessary to ensure the successful performance of the tasks of animal protection. In this area, it is a significant achievement that support for animal protection is available from this year, a chapter-based appropriation which can be used in 100% for animal protection purposes. Thanks to the appropriations, this year's funding for animal protection tasks increased by HUF 40 million, which will be used to support Nébih's approach-forming work on responsible animal farming and the neutering of shelter dogs. The appropriation is expected to increase by 33 percent to HUF 53.2 million next year. The animal welfare aid for improving the living conditions of the largest number of farm animals, the total amount of which in 2016 was HUF 29.7 billion, is certainly worth mentioning in relation to the financial resources spent on animal welfare purposes. With regard to the proposal to tighten the criminal code, I would like to remind you once again that it is possible to take action against animal torturers on the basis of the current legislation: imprisonment of up to 3 years can be imposed. Of the persons convicted of animal cruelty, 65 per cent in 2013, 66 per cent in 2014 and 61 per cent in the first half of 2015. In addition, it is possible to impose a animal protection penalty and to prohibit livestock farming. [[15.50]] We have not yet expected legislation in the context of animal abuse, which is why we have also tried to amend the Animal Protection Act, but you deliberately misinterpreted the amendment. As has been mentioned several times, we have already created a legal sanction. We are now working to ensure that this applies in the application of the law. Several other programs help to protect animals, so the "Free" program, the "Residential" project, and we published a professional publication together with the "Take Home" Foundation entitled Guide to the legal requirements of dog maintenance. Honourable Congressman, There is also a review of outdated standards governing the operation of lawnsmen's farms and a Government Decree on detailed rules for the performance of tasks related to the capture, transfer and placement of stray animals. This requires the amendment of the powers of the Animal Protection Act, which is delayed due to the unfounded attacks on the bill. Finally, I would like to stress that, given that animal protection is an area of concern to all of us, the government is counting on the opinion and assistance of all animal-loving people in this work. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-12-107	Thank you, Minister Fazekas. I will ask Congressman Zsolt Egyed to accept the ministerial answer.
u2017-06-12-108	Dear Minister, Unfortunately, I can't accept that answer because you've been trying to misinterpret what I'm talking about, because you're talking about the Animal Protection Act, and I wasn't talking about that. On the one hand, I talked about the Criminal Code and on the other, I talked about the budget. Ten minutes ago, my proposal for HUF 1 billion was voted out, with the aim of neutering stray animals and animals living in segregations in the country, as this is the alpha and omega of the problem. Dear Minister, I can't believe that in a country where tens and hundreds of billions go to stadiums, where terrible money disappears, it would be a billion forints for a noble cause that would, on the one hand, facilitate the work of hundreds, thousands of animal shelters, and, on the other hand, be able to put their heads to sleep, because they would have done something good in this country. I don't accept your answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-12-109	Thank you very much. The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Minister's answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 112 votes in favour, 37 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the National Development Minister:. Why hasn't the National Assembly discussed the National Climate Strategy for the third year? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2017-06-12-110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Orbán, hearing about Donald Trump's announcement that the United States is leaving the Paris Climate Convention, said recently that he is still in shock. According to the Prime Minister, Hungary's position is that climate change exists, that it is dangerous and global in nature, and that action against it requires action at global level, and that Donald Trump's decision is contrary to this, and that the consequences of his decision still need to be considered. The LMP shares the opinion of the world's advanced half that Trump's decision to abandon the Earth as a whole in a disaster-threatening situation. But the responsible leader of a nation never has to answer that he is in shock and will think about the consequences, especially since he has been doing nothing about climate change for three years. The US may withdraw from reducing greenhouse gas emissions which are responsible for strengthening climate change, but this makes action even more urgent for us. The Hungarian government needs to know precisely that we are one of the most vulnerable, vulnerable countries in Europe. Why is it not a shock to the Prime Minister that the government does not have any substantive measures relating to energy efficiency, green economy, renewable energy use, but even punishes those who would do something about it? How will the government account for not taking any steps to prepare our country to reduce the adverse effects, including droughts that devastate areas leading to desertification, unattainable reductions in groundwater for plants, the expected destruction of new pests and diseases, the health impact of extreme weather? It would be a solution if the government really paid attention to what is important to the country. We need an agricultural and forest policy, water policy based on water retention, flood and inland water management, viable municipal policy, municipal and civil policy, environmental diplomacy with neighbouring countries. America's leading companies, individual states, cities and civilians declared war on Trump's policy and continue to fulfill what their global and local responsibilities require. This has an economic advantage. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to know why you think that the climate change strategy has not been put on the agenda for the third year. What is the reason why this issue of national strategy should be ignored?
u2017-06-12-111	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. I give the floor to Minister of State Zsolt Szabó.
u2017-06-12-112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Congresswoman, As you know, Hungary has supported the establishment of the Paris agreement from the outset, and we have no better proof of how we think about the climate strategy than that we have been the first within the European Union to ratify the lot with the parliamentary decision. The step has an important message, it also has symbolic value for Hungary, as we are committed to implementing the Paris Agreement. To this end, we presented the second national climate change strategy to the Parliament in June 2015, but it was necessary to revise it, since the Paris Agreement itself formulated items and thesis that completely renewed this process. You know that the climate is not permanent; accordingly, the factors governing this need to be constantly adapted. A new strategy has been prepared, which is both a guidance document and a co-ordination document, and will work together with climate change strategies at both county and local level. It is not at all that the strategy itself is neglected, so much so that NÉS-2 was submitted by the government to the Hungarian Parliament on 28 May 2017; however, its inclusion on the agenda is already the responsibility of this House itself. The objectives set out in the strategy will be met through three-year action plans, including concrete measures. They will enter into force from 1 January 2018 for the period up to 2020 and the first action plan has already been drawn up. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I would also like to draw attention to the fact that for the three basic strategic purposes we have already achieved two, the issue of CO2 emissions and the efficiency of renewable energy in scale. At the moment, we are working to meet the standards in the field of energy efficiency by 2020. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-12-113	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. I will ask Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck if she will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2017-06-12-114	I cannot accept the Secretary of State's reply. If the government had an important national climate change strategy, they would have brought the renewed version of the strategy after Paris at least last spring, and the country would have been working for a year to carry out adaptation tasks. On the other hand, what happened? He's been handed in by the government. He may also withdraw it again, but we have not discussed it in the spring period. It is easy to say to the government that we have already completed two of these tasks, two goals, one of which is CO2 emissions, but we know very well that the reason why we have reduced CO2 emissions in Hungary is because in Hungary the industry collapsed in the 1990s. It can also be denied that we have not met the expectations of renewables, nor have we fulfilled the public's energy efficiency-related tasks. We are waiting for the draft to be presented to Parliament as soon as possible. [[16.00]]
u2017-06-12-115	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As we have heard, the congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply 115 yes, 31 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Member Richárd Hörcsik, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. What progress is expected between the framework for cooperation in Visegrád? It's an address. Congressman Richard Hörcsik has the floor, please.
u2017-06-12-116	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, 682 years ago, in Visegrad in 1335 Róbert Károly met Hungarian, János János Luxembourg Czech and Károly Nagy Polish King, which resulted in an end to the hostility between the Czechs and the Poles, and an extremely close economic and political cooperation between the three parties was also established to counter the increasing German and Austrian pressure. This cooperation was renewed on 15 February after six centuries, at the initiative of József Antall. The four-membered cooperation had its culmination, but also its low points. However, today the V4 brand has become a recognised defence in the EU, which is a symbol of cooperation between the Central European Member States, and which the EU's leaders are obliged to recognise, as there is a commendable cooperation between the four countries in the European Union's government-level bodies and in the decision-making process, for example, in order to protect the Schengen borders. It is therefore appropriate to further deepen the cooperation of the Visegrád Four. In 2014, a memorandum was adopted by the Hungarian Presidency of the V4 to broaden the parliamentary dimension of cooperation, and the Slovak Presidency and then the Polish Presidency dealt with this issue in particular in 14 and 15 and, at the level of the Prime Minister, for example, the establishment of a joint TV channel as an important element of cultural cooperation. Dear Secretary of State, Hungary will take over the Presidency from July 2017. One of the challenges facing the government is to coordinate the interests of the parties involved in cooperation as much as possible, for example in the fight for tomorrow's Europe, where fault lines have already appeared, such as the centralisation of Brussels vs. the Europe of nation states or the compulsory resettlement of migrants. After all, we share a historical fate with the Czech Republic, Poland and Slovakia, so it is important to show that there is a reason not only for serious regional reconciliation between the Western EU Member States, such as the Benelux countries, but also here, in Central Europe. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State what realistic prospects and opportunities for cooperation in Visegrád can be. [[Intruder from the ranks of the MSZP: None!]] I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-117	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State István Mikola. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-06-12-118	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary will take over the Visegrad Group Presidency from Poland on 1 July 2017, as you mentioned. The Presidency's motto is: "V4 connects" or: "The V4 connects." Indeed, cooperation in Visegrád brings countries together in the wider Central European region, including the Western Balkans and the Eastern Partnership countries, and the other Member States of the European Union. The Hungarian V4 Presidency for one year will pay particular attention to the debate on the future of the European Union, with the aim of actively and effectively representing the interests of the Central European region, when decisions on our common future need to be taken. The pursuit of cooperation in Visegrád will continue to be a key element in promoting regional security and stability, including our wider region, the Western Balkans and the Eastern Partnership countries. The Hungarian V4 Presidency will encourage progress in the development of North-South infrastructure, the implementation of concrete projects, discussions at both professional and high political levels. One of the important priorities of our Presidency will be to increase competitiveness, the 21st century. Joint response to the technological challenges of the 20th century and strengthening innovation and R &amp; D activities in the region. On economic policy issues, we will also coordinate our positions closely with V4 partners along the European agenda, such as the European Union social dimension, discussions on this, discussions on the multiannual financial framework after 2020. In the spirit of the Visegrád Group's global responsibility, the Hungarian Presidency is launching a dialogue on current international issues with partners outside Europe, and on issues that affect Europe's stability, such as terrorism or other current issues, migration and so on, despite geographical distances. In recent years, cooperation in Visegrád has expanded with an intensive parliamentary dimension at the initiative of the previous Hungarian Presidency. I consider it particularly important and support the continued consultation of the Speakers and Parliamentary Committees of the four countries in the coming months. Honourable Congressman, Dear Members, gentlemen and ladies, I therefore thank you in advance for the support of this House in the successful conduct of the V4 Presidency of Hungary and in implementing our Presidency priorities. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-119	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Richard Hörcsik if he will accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-12-120	Dear Secretary of State, I believe that, in the two or three years ahead of us, cooperation between the four in Visegrád will be extremely necessary, for example, in the summer of 2018 the European Commission will launch its proposal for a multiannual financial framework for the post-2020 period. Our goal must not be less for the Visegrád Four than to keep the share of cohesion resources at least at a level. Then, for example, we share a common interest on the Brexit issue, which is in the same interest on two serious issues: for example, after the British exit, how the British will be paid into the EU's budget and how the citizens of the Visegrád Four can continue to work in the United Kingdom. I accept your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-12-121	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, the congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Burány, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister with the title "Another hundred million to friends." Congressman Sándor Burány has the floor, please.
u2017-06-12-122	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I see Minister Rogán ran from the question cowardly, but let's do it. Last year, the government approved a $25 billion budget to organise the communication of public companies, and three groups of companies were entitled to carry out the orders. Not surprisingly, two of the company groups, as is customary of you, are close to government, and another company with an American background. They were fairly generous with public funds, they spent 6.3 billion forints on propaganda in 2016 and 80 percent more than in 2015. The only purpose of the money was to fill the pockets of the friends again. This process is well illustrated by the case of the tabloid newspaper Ripost, as state companies and actors have advertised in Ripost for almost 600 million forints, for a multiple market price. MVM for HUF 180 million, the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister under your control for HUF 171 million, Szerencségy Zrt. and bought advertisements for 161 million forints. As far as you're concerned, only here was 100 million forints spent advertising the referendum campaign. By the way, it seems that private companies do not consider Ripost a valuable surface at all, their spending did not even reach HUF 5 million. Dear Secretary of State, The company of Antal Pasa Rogán's neighbor in the park, Csaba Csetényi, made almost 200 million forints out of public ads. [[16.10]] But the company of Tibor Kuna, known as Péter Szijjártó's friend, with its 293 million forints, also broke a nice sum. Secretary of State, you have a pretty big face on government propaganda, taking care of the financial progress of the circle of friends. In view of recent year's budget changes, the world's money is not enough for this purpose: they need more and more billions in their greed. So what I'm asking you to do is just give me a number, how much money would the Cabinet Office use? Still, according to your best dreams, how many billion more would they spend on friends? I look forward to your reply.
u2017-06-12-123	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Tuzson. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-12-124	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You know, I think it's worth going back a bit in time because it was a period of your governance when you spent 84 billion forints on government propaganda. 84 billion forints. A huge amount, and perhaps not the amount, is the most important in this regard, because a lot of money has gone to a lot of places, for example, we could talk about the question of subway 4, which is being examined at the moment; money has gone to a lot of places, but what is most important is what you have spent these money on. Because you, say, spent these money advertising the visitation fee, or you spent these money advertising the hospital's daily allowance or the pannon's cougar. And we have to stop here for a moment because there was only one serious campaign, a very serious campaign that was also spent a lot of money on, and this was the time when there was a referendum in Hungary, on the question of whether we would give Hungarian citizenship to Hungarians across the border. I think that it is far more dangerous than any spending money to campaign against the Hungarian people against the nation, contrary to the interests of the nation, and to spend the money, the taxpayers' money, which campaigned against Hungarian people with money against Hungarian citizenship. And there is one very important thing that if we are talking about starting a campaign in Hungary, starting government information, then we also need to talk about the fact that there are always questions in the life of a country that people should be asked about. From time to time, there are questions that determine the fate of a country for not one year, but for 5-10 years, up to 50 or 200 years. For example, the issue of immigration. In such cases, people must be asked, and if we ask people, they must be informed, informed of the possibility of speaking and expressing their views. This was also the case in the case of the referendum campaign, and so was the case with the current national consultation. It is no coincidence that, thanks to this, in the case of a referendum, 3 million 300 thousand people have expressed their views, and now in the current national consultation - we are talking about the most successful national consultation of all time - 1 million 700 thousand people have been able to express their views on this issue. Because when we talk about historical issues, issues in which people have not yet been able to take sides in the elections, it is worth asking people's opinions. Because a country's policy can only be successful if that policy is based on people's opinions. At this point, a government is able, and politics can represent people's opinions either outside Brussels or in Hungary. You know, these campaigns are always run by the government through agencies with two important expectations. One is to make this information as broad as possible, the other is to reach as many people as possible. And, you know, both of our campaigns, which I just quoted, were a campaign of over 90 percent, so in this respect, these campaigns met this professional requirement. We would like to pursue this further, because when it comes to issues that are important for a nation, we must also inform people. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-125	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr Sándor Burány if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2017-06-12-126	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I expected a fair and direct answer from you, but you are clearly completely incompetent and unable to do so. And by the way, if you've decided to take the wrong turn, instead of answering my question, I suggest next time you talk about, say, Lord Voldemort and sweeping around your own house. And as for your government behavior and communication, you're sitting on the horse completely backwards. Instead of looking at what's good for the country, they'd make the right rules and laws, and then someone would do it, that's not the order at all. The first thing you guys need to do is make good money, fill your pockets, and look at what you need to touch, what laws, what laws you need to change. This governance, this response is simply unacceptable and unfair. I don't accept the answer.
u2017-06-12-127	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 28 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, notary of the National Assembly, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister. It's an address. The Prime Minister has commissioned Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, with responsibility and competence according to the subject, and Minister János Fónagy asked the State Secretary to give his answer. Signora, you have the floor, please.
u2017-06-12-128	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, According to a previous decision of the government, it would support the renewal of metro line 3 with a commitment of EUR 137.5 billion. On this basis, the capital has issued a public procurement procedure for the construction process, now two times. At the first tender, prices were 50 percent higher than expected. Now the reduced technical offers for the second round are much more favourable, but still 37.1 billion higher than the government provides. The reason is clearly that the technical infrastructure, which is in a state of extreme deterioration, also carries a significant risk for the contractors. This is why metro renewal cannot be delayed because it would only increase the already astronomical costs. Metro 3 has a network of about 150 million trips per year, so its safe operation is literally a matter of life, and it is feared that if the government does not help the metropolitans, the renovation could fail - at least partially - and this could have unforeseen consequences. I have already asked a question about the above mentioned additional costs of €37.1 billion, and you have given a very correct answer, which said: I would like to make it clear that the government will provide all the help the capital will need, in the event that actual funds are needed for the implementation of the project. Weeks after the tender opening, there is no doubt that the calculations are valid, so it would be necessary to have a total amount of HUF 174.6 billion. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister said on the question the other day: "The experts examined this work, wrote out the application, and the government made the necessary money available. You can do that, and you'll have to do it with that. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Unfortunately, we know that's not true. The construction price of dozens of government visual investments is increasing many times compared to the originally estimated engineering price. In such cases, the government is always unheard of without exception, not so in this case, on the subway issue. Here, treating their previous decisions as prestige issues, they do not help. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you not to play with the lives, health and safety of Budapesters, and please answer clearly: when will you finally provide the necessary additional resources for your metro investment? And I'd like to ask for a meaningful answer. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[16.20]]
u2017-06-12-129	Thank you very much, notary. The answer, as I said, will be given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-12-130	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I can only repeat: the government has already and will continue to provide all support and assistance to the capital in order for the renovation of the Budapest metro line 3 to begin as soon as possible. At the same time, it has also been said in your interpellation that the European Commission has calculated an engineering price of HUF 137.5 billion, which has so far been oral, when it examined the applications in this regard. The Commission's contribution to funding of HUF 137.5 billion does not yet exist, so any item that changes this amount will require further Commission consultation. Therefore, at last week's meeting of the Government, at which the Mayor was present, he has indeed promised to promote this joint task, which is the joint task of the capital, the government and the European Commission, with every step and with the necessary contribution. The capital and government must, of course, cooperate in order to have this elevated item, mentioned by you, accepted by the European Commission. I have already indicated in my previous reply that the four public procurement procedures for the modernisation of Metro 3 are underway for the reconstruction of the tunnel and the renovation of the stations, so the procedure has started here. The Mayor has announced that the reconstruction of Metro Line 3 will begin this year with the entire tunnel and the northern section. The necessary resources were provided by the Government already in May 2016 by signing a grant agreement allowing EU funding. In order to further assess and possibly reduce the difference, BKV Zrt. to the other two sections, to the central and southern sections of the line. issue a new tender. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and From my answer, I believe it is clear that the capital is determined to start the first phase of the work, that the government and the capital are working together to obtain the necessary EU funds, and that together they are looking for the European Commission. We hope that the stations of the middle and southern sections of the line will receive proposals that can be financed. Here, in front of the public of the Parliament, I would like to stress that the M3 metro line in Budapest really needs to be renovated, but it is not life-threatening. At the moment, if its operators detect the smallest such signal, its plant will, of course, be suspended immediately. So please, in addition to recognising the importance of this matter as well, please consider the current state of affairs to be improved, but do not consider it life-threatening. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Interview from the benches of MSZP: Very nice!]]
u2017-06-12-131	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the notary if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2017-06-12-132	Unfortunately, I can't accept it, because no, the government won't give me all the help, because it's still missing 37 billion forints. [[István Szilárd Németh: Stop talking...]] According to our understanding, the situation is quite clear: some people saw the business in the metro renovation. If Lőrinc Mészáros hasn't built a subway yet, now he's going to build a subway, because the new tender notice means a new business for Lőrinc Mészáros. And, yes, there's nothing dramatic about saying that the M3 line is badly degraded, in all respects, both from the point of view of the infrastructure, the tunnel and the auxiliary equipment. I'm afraid there might still be a big accident here, which is why we need immediate intervention and government assistance. And the real question is, in our view, when are you going to appoint a government commissioner to lead the subway renovation just so you can ensure a safe party? Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-06-12-133	Thank you very much, notary. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, the notary did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 115 votes in favour, 27 against and without abstentions. Thank you. Dear Parliament, Member László Szászfalvi, a representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:, What are the conditions under which our students can work in the summer, and how does the government support the work of students? It's an address. Congressman László Szászfalvi will take the floor.
u2017-06-12-134	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The summer has come and a significant number of students will be finishing the school soon, so it is obvious that we pay particular attention to the opportunities for students to work in the summer. During the year, students can earn some income in the summer, on the one hand, and on the other hand, gain work experience, and on the other hand a success experience through well done work. Since 2010, almost 500 000 new jobs have been created in the competitive sector, but in some regions there is still a serious shortage of labour, which can be a good solution for students' employment. The labour market is open to young workers, and as companies need more and more good professionals, they are willing to employ future workers who learn up-to-date knowledge and practice at a young age for higher wages. Under the current rules, students over 16 can work, and students can contract only with the consent of their legal representative, with the control of the tax authority and with strict rules on equal treatment. Among young people over 16 years of age, this represents the seasonal work of some 200,000 students each year, most of which is carried out in school cooperatives. This form is good because cooperatives take on all part-tasks, making it easier for both the employer and the employee to bear administrative and financial burdens. Among other things, the employer does not have to deal with reporting and payroll, whereas young workers can choose the appropriate seasonal work and do not have to negotiate the wage. Dear Secretary of State, Summer student work under a well-regulated and controlled framework can provide benefits and long-term success for everyone. That is why I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what conditions our students can work in the summer, and how the government supports this. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-12-135	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-12-136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As he said, as he explained, students can establish employment from the age of 16, the contract of employment concluded will be valid with the consent of the legal representative. The employment contract shall include the basic salary, the job, the duration of the employment relationship, which may be fixed or indefinite, as well as the nature of the employment relationship, or the place of full-time or part-time employment or work. The employer must notify the National Tax and Customs Office of the creation of an employment relationship. Students may also work in the form of simplified employment or occasional work. In the case of agricultural and tourism seasonal work, their employment with the same employer may extend up to 120 working days per year, up to 5 consecutive days per casual work, up to 15 days per month and up to 90 days per year. In the case of the employment of a school cooperative, the parties shall conclude agreements on personal participation, including a set of tasks undertaken by the student and a minimum fee for each task. Among the limitations of working, I would point out that underage workers should not be allowed to do night work, they should not be ordered to have extraordinary working hours, and their daily working hours should not exceed 8 hours. [[16.30]] Student workers are also entitled to annual normal leave, and they may use a pro rata part of the annual leave for employment of less than a calendar year. So if the student works for a month, he is entitled to 1/12 of the 20 plus 5 days leave, i.e. two working days' leave. The principle of equal treatment and equal pay for equal work must also apply to students. In the contract of employment, the parties may agree on monthly, weekly, daily or hourly wages or performance wages. However, the employee must receive the minimum wage, which is HUF 127 500 gross for eight hours of employment. The government specifically supports student work, as the Ministry of National Economy announced the Summer Student Work Programme in 2017 with HUF 2.3 billion in support, in which students aged 16-25 can get a job with local authorities or local government institutions. The programme can help young people to get to work as a student, and, as you said, it also provides an opportunity to earn income in addition to early work experience. Last year, more than 26,000 young people gained work experience under the two-month program. From the amount available this year, we expect to provide work for about 25-30 thousand students during the summer period. The program also offers the opportunity to complete the compulsory internship of students. The programme supports wages, the 100% grant may be granted for a maximum period of two months between 1 July and 31 August for a maximum period of six hours per day. The allowance corresponds to the minimum wage and to the pro rata part of the guaranteed minimum wage, so for skilled persons it can be HUF 120 750 per month and HUF 95 625 per person for unskilled persons. Local authorities must submit their labour needs to the district offices. Students can register at the employment department of the competent district office as of 19 June. Please accept my answer, believe us all, but most of all, students have this form of employment. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-137	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr László Szászfalvi if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2017-06-12-138	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I think that the government's employment policy is indeed successful, because over the last seven years, 700 thousand new jobs have been created, of which 500 thousand in the competitive sphere. An important measure in this area was the Action Plan for the Protection of Jobs and the Youth Guarantee Programme, within which young people under the age of 25 can get opportunities in the world of work. I think that we can now face completely new challenges, as we are facing a labour shortage in some areas, where student work can play a significant role in dealing with it. In addition, I think this can be a motivation for students, young people, which will also help them to work in the long term. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply, I naturally accept the answer. [[Applause in the ranks of KDNP.]]
u2017-06-12-139	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Szilárd Németh, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture. The multinationals have already developed a multi-speed Europe! It's an address. Szilárd Németh has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-12-140	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, Nearly 100 million EU citizens can obtain products of lower quality under the same brand in the eastern half of the European Union than in Western markets. This outrageous practice is mainly linked to multinational companies, which seek to maximise profits rather than to treat consumers fairly. Second-class consumers bring second-class foods under the same brand mark to the markets they consider to be second-class. At the EU's Agriculture and Fisheries Council, representatives from eight countries have already protested against this practice of multinational companies, and Hungary and Slovakia have jointly initiated the committee responsible to establish the legal framework for ensuring equal treatment of food. I think that it would have a very negative signal if the Union did not act on this issue and tried not to use legal means to eliminate this intolerable practice, as there must be a guarantee at EU level that European citizens, regardless of their national state and geographical origin, can obtain equally high-quality food, and I stress that wherever they live in the EU. The Hungarian opposition's attitude to the subject is also characteristic: either they are basing or they are apologizing to the multinationals and Brussels, and even the Hungarian government is being accused of the problem. In any case, it says a lot that their representatives do not show much activity on this issue either here in Parliament or in the European Parliament. For them it is more important now to associate with György Soros or to discredit the country before abroad than to deal with the interests of Hungarian consumers. On the other hand, the government is now initiating investigations at home on new topics and further represents at EU level the need to examine at European Commission level the question of how to deal with large companies that sell products of different quality under the same brand as consumers. Dear Minister, What subjects is the government preparing to examine? What steps is the government planning to take to protect consumers? What steps could be taken at EU level? What is the prospect of cooperation with the Eastern Member States concerned? I would be honored to thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-141	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Minister Sándor Fazekas. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-06-12-142	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I thank you, Mr President, for raising this very important issue, because I am convinced that the Hungarian Government cannot tolerate the view of Hungarian people, food buyers, as second-class citizens, as second-class citizens of the EU, who are free to be deceived by food imitations and dual-quality foods. This is a very important question. I fully agree with the opposition's attempt to degrade this, to minimize the efforts, and even counter-suspecting, as in all cases, is more of a supporter of the multinationals here. On the other hand, the government has taken concrete steps in recent times. It is enough to think that a number of controls are under way, and in April the 2008 XLVI on the Food Chain Authority on the labelling of foods with different compositions. We have submitted a proposal for amendment of the Act, the essence of which is that we impose obligations on the manufacturer or distributor to supply the food or feed placed on the market in Hungary with a different composition, or a different proportion of the individual ingredients, with the same brand name and the same appearance, with a different statement of awareness. So in the future, it should be written that, if the quality of the food differs, the packaging will say yes, dear customer, you will buy a product of a lower quality or a different quality if you choose it. I believe that information to consumers is of primary importance here. This draft law has been notified to the European Commission since 19 May. In the European Parliament, ten Members, including György Hölvényi, have tabled a proposal on the dual quality of food, as we also need to achieve an EU-wide standard to address this issue at the European Union's internal decision-making forums. The current legislation needs to be reviewed. On 19 May, in cooperation with the V4 Member States, there was a seminar organised by the permanent representation of Slovakia on this dual quality issue, with delegates from Slovakia, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Croatia providing information on their experiences, investigations conducted in the Member States, and we can conclude that we are experiencing similar phenomena. At the Competitiveness Council meeting on 29 May, the Commission presented the results of the evaluation of EU consumer and market legislation published on 23 May, and the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Bulgaria and Hungary also stressed the need to keep this issue on the agenda and the responsible Commissioner also promised to seek a solution. [[16.40]] In Bratislava, a V4 + 1 conference was held in the Slovak Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, the essence of which is to bring together the Member States whose citizens suffer from double food quality. Last week we dealt with this issue with the Czech agricultural minister Marian Jurečka, where further investigations are carried out, samples are collected from five countries, from two Western countries and three eastern countries. I also recently ordered a check-up, covering another 30-35 pairs of products, beers, soft drinks, ice creams, grill products, sauces, salad dressings, usually in summer. Here it is very important that when it is the season, we especially protect customers, especially protect people from being deceived. Dear Parliament, I'm convinced we can't leave the customers alone. We must eliminate the problem of dual food by legislative or control methods. They'll all be needed in the future. In view of these, I ask for my answer to be accepted. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-12-143	Thank you very much, Minister. I will ask Mr Szilárd Németh if he will accept the Minister's reply. Here you go.
u2017-06-12-144	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. In particular, I thank you for saying in this response that, in relation to the double standards of food, you consider it important to represent the same position at EU level as the government in relation to the reduction of costs or in relation to the migration policy of our country. You have to stand up for yourself clearly. The European Union must be implemented not in Brussels, but in Budapest and all the settlements of Hungary. It is very important that we can only represent our interests at European Union level by gathering allies with us. It is clear that this has also happened on this issue. I wish you further success in your work, and hopefully, the Hungarian shelves will receive healthy food of the same quality in each country of the Union. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-12-145	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the interpellations. Now it's time for immediate questioning. We are taking a minute of a technical break in order to ensure that all my fellow Members who wish to leave the Chamber in order to deal with other official matters do not obstruct the immediate question. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, Members of the MSZP, Tamás Harangozó and László Szakács, wish to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Who was the contact of the Voldemort crime association in your ministry? It's an address. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-12-146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, Minister, welcome to the Parliament building. I guess we don't have to introduce this room again. It's been a long time since we've seen it here. It wouldn't be so bad if he came in here sometimes. In an unprecedented manner, the prosecution in Hungary is now accusing Mengyi Roland, a member of the Fidesz Parliament, of an attempted and bribed crime of fiscal fraud, which is a particularly high financial disadvantage. That's what we knew so far. However, you failed to report, Minister, that in your ministry, the authorities had a search warrant, that the authorities had seized documents and that your immediate environment had been questioned by the authorities. The most serious part of the case is that your Chief of Staff and Deputy Secretary of State have made a disqualifying, persuading statement in this case, in criminal proceedings. One of them lied, Minister. In short, on 3 September 2015, the NAV informed you that there was a problem with the application. Your chief of staff showed this document to his Deputy Secretary of State and instructed him not to win the bid. Your deputy secretary of state in your statement denied that you said you'd never seen this document, and you didn't tell him to do anything. It is a shame of the accomplice's prosecution that neither testimony has been made nor you have been heard of what you gave the order and what you didn't do then. So I will take this opportunity, Minister, to answer these questions here in front of the public of Parliament. Someone lied in criminal proceedings, which is perjury. So Anikó Farkas' chief of staff was right in the D.A.'s office, and did you really instruct him to show the document to Secretary of State Tamás Köpeczi-Bócz? In addition, have you ordered an investigation, Minister, as to how many abuses such as the Voldemort case may have occurred in your wallet recently? What was the result of the case? Did you file a complaint? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-06-12-147	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Zoltán Balog. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-06-12-148	Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You've been trying to hysterize yourself and public opinion for weeks now by getting involved in a corruption case by the Ministry of Human Resources. After it was clearly revealed that this was not true, there was no suspicion of any crime on the side of the Ministry of Human Resources, which you have heard several times in this House. Therefore, they were forced to narrow their accusations to the fact that an associate of the Ministry, someone, might have whispered to the crime planners. You don't have any basis for this, just like you did on the corruption charges. By the way, the Attorney General has told you this several times. What is the Ministry's business in this area, and what we have done, what is expected of us, is to propose, plan and implement the effective use of public funds, and, where appropriate, it is also natural that if we have information that someone would want to endanger this fair and efficient use, we should do everything in our power to prevent this. In this case, as you have been trying to hysterize the public with the opposite for weeks, that is exactly what we have done in this case. In the press, the information was properly published, showing that, when we learned that some organisations were seeking EU support in an irregular way, I immediately warned the Secretary of State responsible for the area to pay particular attention to compliance with the rules in the case of the proposal in question and to any suspicious activity that might occur. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the preparation of the call for proposals on your question has been carried out in accordance with the legislation and in accordance with the procedure laid down there. We, the Ministry, and personally, have fulfilled all my obligations under the law in this matter, working with the authorities, who alone are entitled and obliged to act in this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-12-149	A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Tamás Harangozó. Here you go.
u2017-06-12-150	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Well, Minister, you've given us a fantastic answer, thank you very much. In addition to what the Attorney General said here two weeks ago, he at least made it clear to you what legality is. The Attorney General here in Parliament said that what happened in this case was that Roland Mengyi bounced into the Ministry and ordered an application from your Deputy State Secretary, who instructed his head of department to write this. Is this the legal procedure for you, Minister? ! This? ! [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Shame!]] Can anyone come in here and order applications? Minister, at least you admitted that Tamás Köpeczi-Bócz lied in criminal proceedings before the prosecution. You have just confirmed that you have instructed me to be informed of this issue. But what I don't think is normal, Minister, is that this man has been removed from the Ministry, and that is the case for your part. Because the penal code doesn't provide for a loss of employment, but a prison sentence in this case, and you had a dog's duty to file charges. Mr. Secretary. You can still make sure the D.A. doesn't investigate your ministry and you, but it won't be for long. Thank you.
u2017-06-12-151	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister Zoltán Balog. Here you go. [[16.50]]
u2017-06-12-152	It seems to me, Congressman, that you were involved in a lie or at least some memory loss, and not me, since Tamás Köpeczi-Bócz's acquittal occurred before... [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] What he said or didn't say at the D.A.'s office would have turned out. By the way, you've been briefing me for 168 hours, and you've already had it. I'm glad someone got you this document, and I don't have the right to access it, because... [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó presented a document: We have the official report.]] Yes, in criminal proceedings, the paperwork [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It's given to the people involved. I'm not involved. Maybe you're involved, and that's why you got this paper. [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It's given to the people involved. I'm not involved. Maybe you're involved, and that's why you got this paper. (Influence in the ranks of the MSZP. ) Check this out. Where there isn't, don't look for me. (The President rang.) We don't have any corruption and criminal cases in this case, where there is one, it's worth looking for. For example, you could look for the fate of the 600 million forints recorded by one of your prime ministers in the case of subway 3, subway 4. [[Rumblings, rumbles in the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] I know you don't like this, and you're yelling at me about this, the thing is...
u2017-06-12-153	Congressmen!
u2017-06-12-154	... your other prime minister whose name I don't even want to say is involved in the Sukoro case, and there are a number of other cases that would be worth looking for. [[Uproar, interrogations in the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] I know this party discipline forbids you from speaking on this matter. I gave you a decent piece of information, and I would expect that from you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-155	Thank you very much, Minister. Congressman Lords! [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Mr. Note, at least you, who swore to be responsible for the order of the Parliament, are holding back a little. Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Why are you ruling against the will of the people? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár Prime Minister's head of the Prime Minister's Office to respond to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask you whether you accept Minister János Lázár as a reply or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2017-06-12-156	I'd like an answer in person, I'll wait for Prime Minister, we'll get back to you in the fall. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-06-12-157	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will inform you and the Honourable Parliament, Prime Minister, at the hour of the third immediate question. Member István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, notary of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Like the CÖF, can the Movement for Hungarian Workers count on the Government's help? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár Prime Minister's head of the Prime Minister's Office to respond to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the notary whether he accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2017-06-12-158	Since Minister Lazarus is a little more committed to the transparent spending of public funds than the government average, I am pleased to accept his reply. Thank you.
u2017-06-12-159	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Szávay, notary. Here you go.
u2017-06-12-160	Thank you very much. More than that, because we heard from Minister Lazarus that it would be good for the National University of Public Service to account for its 15 billion-dollar application, and it was also Minister who spoke a few weeks ago at the government info about the fact that the revenue generated by the Hungarian Electricity Works is public money, the taxpayers' money, that it should be accounted for. Nevertheless, the Hungarian Electricity Works informed me, Minister, when I asked the CF the HUF 508 million, which we believe the CÖF spent on posters, please provide me with the details of the HUF 508 million grant, all relevant documents; then MVM wrote to me that its subsidies were not covered by public money, but from its own resources, so the relevant paragraph of the info law does not apply to it. That would be my first question, Minister. You have to wait for me to file a lawsuit on this, or either Minister or the Government will give me instructions on how the CÖF would be pleased to report this HUF 508 million to MVM, all the more so, because we know from the Communications Director of MVM that their support will always be approved by the National Communications Office. My second question follows from this: Csaba Vámos, president of the Hungarian Workers Movement, turned to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs last week with two letters, and the other with MVM. The Hungarian Electricity Company asks that, if social responsibility is so important to them, they should provide support and help this organisation to promote the European Wages Union initiative. What is Minister's position on this? If the government approves these subsidies, can this organisation expect such support from the MVM or the National Communications Office? The other question on this point, which Mr President has asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to help find European trade union partners [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to look for employees' partners for the organisation, also in the interest of cooperation on the Wages Union. I look forward to your answers. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-12-161	Thank you very much, notary, Congressman. I give the floor to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, Mr János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-06-12-162	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for the floor. First of all, I would like to reassure my fellow Member that all state leaders, the Prime Minister, his ministers and his state ministers in this government are equally and equally committed to the use of Hungarian public wealth and public money. [[An uproar in opposition ranks.]] Full transparency and abuse [[The president's ringing the bell.]] There's zero tolerance. My second point is that as far as MVM's answer is concerned, it surprised me, not just you, because I understand that the Hungarian Electricity Works are state-owned and all state-owned companies are public property, and the state-owned companies have public money, because what is public property cannot be anything else. This is my common sense peasant approach from Hódmezővásárhely, and I hope the lawyers of the Hungarian Electricity Works will share it. In my opinion, if the Hungarian Electricity Works have complied with all the laws - otherwise they have the full right to give money to the CF or any other social organisation, as far as I know, the support was completely normal, while complying with the law and the law - I find nothing wrong with the fact that the social movement or civil society organization CÖF was supported by the Hungarian Electricity Works. I believe that, over the last twenty-some years, the Hungarian Electricity Works and its predecessor, if they could do so, have supported a social organisation, movement and community, and they did so correctly. It is possible to override this policy, make no mistake, this policy of business, it is possible to make a proposal that public companies should not support anyone in the future, but pay all profits or all financial results into the state register as dividends. Once again, I would like to confirm that, in my opinion, the University of Public Service, the Hungarian Electricity and all state companies, after it is public property and public property, have to account for and account for their money in front of the entire Hungarian public. As regards the Social Initiative on the Wages Union, not only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also the Secretary of State, Mr Szabolcs Takács, is at the disposal of the organisation, President Csaba Vámos, to find partners. As regards the aid, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Fortunately, it is not the government, but the support organisation that sets its rules. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-163	Thank you very much, Minister. István Szávay, the notary, has a one-minute rejoinder once again.
u2017-06-12-164	Thank you very much. I wanted to highlight Minister from this average, but Minister pulled himself back into this, but thank you very much for having at least answered all three of my questions, which is not always the case. I'm glad we agreed, and I was hoping that we would agree that MVM's money is public money. MVM's lawyers don't see it that way yet, or they wouldn't have given us that answer. In this regard, Minister, I would ask for the Government's action to change your mind on this matter. You're saying there's nothing wrong with the COF's support. In support of the CFF, it is itself the problem, and it itself gives rise to the suspicion that neither the CF is willing to account for this money, nor the MVM is willing to tell us what this money is for and how it was given. This is where we heard about all kinds of fake safe foods that were invented 20 to 30 years ago, about civics and stuff, but we don't see exactly what happened. Our strong suspicion is that out of this money, the public money of the state, was financed by the CÖF clown campaign, which detracted Gábor Vona, which concerns the other half of the answer, I am glad that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is open, and I am sure that President Vámos will be notified back. And the reason I asked you, I say again, is because the communications director of the MVM said that these subsidies are practically approved by the government and by the propaganda industry. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-12-165	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-06-12-166	I am aware that in Hungary there is a practice of data management - not now, but in the last 20 years - for public companies, not for them; these companies have to operate in a market form, so they are trying to comply with market rules. I, however, believe that I have the right to all the information of the company, to any information relating to its operation and its support, even if it concerns personal rights. It's public money, it's public property, it has to be accounted for, and it has to be made public. I'm pretty sure the COF is accounted for and will account for all the support they're getting from whoever it is. And I'm sorry that everything comes to mind about you, Gábor Vona, your president or your president's political affairs. [[17.00]] For me, I think that in Hungary, the COF is an organization. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Decepticon!]] which is able to move and mobilise for the good of the country [[Dr. Wind Bernadett, that's billions.]] half a million people or more. It is a huge thing that Hungarian civil society has so much power. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-12-167	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP and its group leader, wishes to ask the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Is the Minister Busted? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Tuzson Bence Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Head of the Group whether she accepts the person of the responding. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett says yes.]] The head of the faction will tell you to accept it. Mr Bernadett Wind is in charge. Here you go.
u2017-06-12-168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I find it difficult to accept, but rather I acknowledge that Minister does not wish to be here in Parliament and answer embarrassing questions. Because we're going to talk again about exactly how the state-owned MVM came out of more than half a billion forints for the CF as a subsidy. We also know that the reason why MVM is so generous in handing out these subsidies is because in recent years, the company has been pumped up by massive tens of billions in preparation for the Paks expansion. It is no coincidence that even John Lazarus acknowledged that what MVM spends is public money. After this half-billion-dollar grant came to light, the CÖF came up with the very comical defense that the entire aid was spent on promoting complete food and developing the scientific field of civility. However, it seems that this story was not even agreed in-house, because a few days later, Zoltán Lomnici Jr. himself said, and I quote:. Of course, the money received from MVM did not go to the activists, nor did the spokespersons who volunteered to do their job, but used the CÖF itself for the civil campaign that offsets anti-national pressure, so it was CF who acknowledged that they were not competent and civility in this money, but that the public money received from MVM was intended to be used for political purposes. But the self-detection didn't end here. A few weeks ago, I asked Minister Miklós Seszták, who was supervising MVM, whether he had given me permission to pay such support, and he said that it had nothing to do with the story, and that he would look into it in November. Only a few days later, Réka Bentzik, director of communications at MVM, said in an interview, and I quote: "The award of grants is done according to the same rules in each case, and all our support is approved by the National Communications Office. The situation is therefore recognised by stakeholders that MVM supports the CF with hundreds of millions of public funds, with the permission of the Propagandaministérium, and then the fake civil organization is filling the country with fidesz posters. I didn't say that. You said all the elements of these allegations. Who's lying, Mr. Secretary? Miklós Seszták is lying, the communications director of MVM is lying? Who's lying? The National Communications Office is lying, Minister Rogán's Ministry is lying? Who lies in this story?
u2017-06-12-169	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tuzson Bence. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-12-170	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You know, there are laws in Hungary, and the law must also apply. If you are monitoring the legislation, there is indeed an office called the National Communications Office, I stress, an office which takes individual decisions on specific matters. In such cases, when support is provided by organisations falling within its competence, I would like to emphasise, on a legislative basis, that a decision is taken on a legal basis in this respect. These are decisions in individual cases when, on the basis of the authorisation of the legislation, it considers the legality of these aids. This is the type of individual decisions taken by the National Communications Office. Otherwise, the Office will always make its own decisions, and if it also monitors the legislation [[Nándor Gúr: Absolutely!]] This office cannot, of course, be instructed to do so. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-12-171	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It's a one-minute rejoinder for the woman in charge of the faction. Here you go.
u2017-06-12-172	We can dig in awkward places because he hasn't spoken half the time frame, and so many times in one speech I have never heard the word law and legality spoken here in Parliament in my life. Dear Secretary of State, The thing is, the NKH has a communication interface that lists these grants, and there's a need for ministerial approval. Ergo can't pretend that the entire institution isn't under the authority of a minister. Minister Rogán needs to know what's going on in the NKH, or if he doesn't, resign now because he's in charge of this whole story. I'm gonna ask you one more time, who's lying in this story? Be kind and explain to me: the NKH knew about it, Minister Miklós Seszták said that he had nothing to do with it and then looked into it in November. This shows, however, how the Hungarian ministers do not pay attention to where public money goes. In addition, Minister Rogán was either to be held accountable for having been aware of this transaction and for having been involved in the preparation of an election fraud by Fidesz, since civil society will be holding posters... and, I don't know, for political activity, or if he didn't know about it, he would be unfit to perform the task. Which is it? Are you incompetent or did you just ignore him?
u2017-06-12-173	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder for Secretary of State Tuzson Bence. Here you go.
u2017-06-12-174	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Once again, I suggest that you study Hungarian legislation and how an office makes its decisions, including [[Dr. István Józsa: Do you know or not?]] and if you take a decision on an individual matter, you will also study it. But if you are so interested in transparency, I would ask you to take action in other matters to support transparency, such as support for political parties. [[Dóra Dúró: That is not the question!]] in the case of illicit or opaque subsidies. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: We're on!]] For example, the poster law, I ask you to support these questions. Take a look around your own house, see who you're talking to, who you're talking to, or you can ask your co-chair if you're consulting, let's say, with Lajos Simicska, what you're talking about. Thank you very much. [[Noise on the opposition side. Dr. Wind Bernadett: György Szilágyi: Nice answer! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-12-175	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Csizi, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. The Minister's duty as a public servant [[Noise from the opposition benches. István Szávay: There has been one of these today!]] Mr Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State for his reply. I respectfully ask if you'll accept the person of the responder. [[Peter Chizi says yes.]] In the meantime, Mr Péter Csizi indicated that he accepted Mr Károly Kontra as a representative of State Secretary. Congressman Péter Csizi has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-06-12-176	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, While Hungary is under unprecedented pressure on migration, while a united offensive was launched in favour of border protection measures in Hungary, we see that, instead of standing up for the protection and security of the country, the representatives of the left are already putting national security at risk. Over the past few weeks, more and more politicians from the left have stood in different places in favour of breaking down the fence at the southern border. Following László Botka's fence-breaking declaration last week, Péter Niedermüller, DK, also argued that at the expense of the safety of the people, he would indeed break the border lock, remove all protective measures and, I quote, that there is no connection between terrorism and migration, and that he would calmly go through the streets of European cities without fear of any terrorist attack. Would the DK MEP dare to take his opinion in front of the families of the people who have fallen victim in Paris, Brussels, London or Manchester? The president of the MSZP, Gyula Molnár, spoke a few days later about Hungary's obligation to accept the quota. We can see that a nice coalition is developing between MSZP and DK. While there is a debate in the window on the details of cooperation, while there is a debate in the window about Ferenc Gyurcsány and his policy, we see that the MSZP and DK agree on how to break down the fence and how to eliminate the security that we create. That is why, Mr Secretary of State, we would like to make it clear today that Fidesz is at all costs in favour of the safety of Hungarian people, and we are asking the government to do so. [[Anita Beringes: What is the question? A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-12-177	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-12-178	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It seems that an international coalition has been established, the leader of which is György Soros. [[Moraj from the benches of the opposition. Dr. László Varga: Is this before the agenda? Dr. István Józsa: Don't be silly, Karchi.]] and participants implement their pro-immigration scenario [[Constant noise from the opposition benches. Dr. László Varga: You have already responded to the agenda. The president's ringing the bell.]] In addition to the Soros Banderies and certain Brussels bureaucrats, the MSZP and the Gyurcsány Party are also important partners in the implementation and Jobbik is a silent partner. The government stands up for our achievements so far, Hungary does not want to change [[Dr. István Józsa: Nonsense!]] on immigration policy. We want to tell you who we live with and who we don't. [[Dr. István Józsa: You're too old for this, Karchi!]] We don't want to give you that right, and we're not going to hand it over to anyone. Hungary protects its borders and Schengen borders, protecting not only the security of the Hungarian people, but also the security of the European people. The Hungarian government intends to maintain the transit zone and the fence and continues to reject the compulsory introduction of migrants. If, for all these reasons, the European Commission initiates legal proceedings against Hungary [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: One more minute!]] We're ready to have a legal debate. [[17.10]] It is clear that Brussels, the organisations funded by György Soros, and now the MSZP are working to break down the Hungarian fence and to change the laws protecting Hungary and the Schengen borders. They want us to be forced by international pressure to let migrants in after all, to give up our achievements so far. The MSZP did not support the proposal to establish a legal border closure - we remember it - in Parliament. We stand by the interests of Hungary. The national consultation was launched in order to ask the opinion of the Hungarian people again. This gives us the authority to defend our achievements so far. On the basis of an absolute record of 1 million 680 thousand returned questionnaires, which have been processed up to now, almost 1 million 400 thousand questionnaires, those expressing their views have clearly argued that illegal immigration activities, smuggling of people and the promotion of illegal migration must also be rejected. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP: Bravo! Let's give Mr. Secretary another minute.]]
u2017-06-12-179	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. For a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Péter Csizi has the floor. Here you go. [[Interjection in the ranks of the MSZP: Do not accept it!]]
u2017-06-12-180	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your reply to the Secretary of State. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] We heard the yelling from the left-wing representatives about the question. Well, the question, honourable Member, is that when you can see that left-wing politics, Brussels policy, have failed in relation to immigration, when you can see the opinion of nearly 1.7 million people, despite all this why you are going against the Hungarians, why are you going against the security of Hungarian people? [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Can I answer? Mr. President, may I answer?]] and why it is more important for you to know what Brussels is saying about what the Hungarian people are saying. [[Dr. László Varga: I'm sorry, Mr. President.]] Technically, we would like to have an answer for this ourselves, while the reassuring Prime Minister's response today is that as long as he is here as Prime Minister, the dual fence will stand at the southern border. [[Dr. László Varga: I wouldn't let that happen, Mr. President.]] And we can guarantee the safety of Hungary.
u2017-06-12-181	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Károly Kontra is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-12-182	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Last weekend, from Friday to Sunday, 115 border offenders were detained on the territory of the country by the police. Last week, 211 migrants in the country were detained and escorted back by the police. [[Dr. László Varga: What show is this?]] With good weather, therefore, migratory pressure and the activities of smugglers have increased again. In Serbia, migrants are reported to break into boathouses, voluntarily occupying buildings, where they are expected to be carried across the border by smugglers. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, This information, this data, proves that the danger has not passed, the fence is needed. People can only rely on the government, Fidesz-KDNP, to protect them from illegal migrants. The Hungarian Left, László Botka, the Gyurcsány Party and Jobbik do not want to defend Hungary's borders [[Dr. László Varga: This section is the best!]] people in Hungary can rely on the government and Fidesz-KDNP. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. László Varga: Very good! Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP: Nice farewell! There's a man applauding!]]
u2017-06-12-183	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: "Do you have a positive answer? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-06-12-184	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2017-06-12-185	Thank you very much. Everyone has heard that she has accepted Mr János Fónagy State Secretary for reply. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor.
u2017-06-12-186	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, On 23 May, Paks held a meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, initiated by me, at the nuclear power plant. Many important topics were discussed at the meeting, but training of professionals was a priority and a recurring issue. For more than seven years, I have been calling the government's attention to the need to take this issue seriously, the training of the future generation, with my colleague from Tolna County. This is a very important area with high qualifications. If we don't do anything, there'll be a shortage of specialists in the operation of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant in years. There is already a shortage of specialists at the National Atomic Energy Agency as a supervisory body. The issue of labour in this area will be of key importance in the next period. István Hamvas also said that it is not enough to get out of the university at the nuclear power plant, but that it is still necessary to take part in multi-annual training in order for a young person to do serious work there. In other words, it is not enough to get out of the technology, from the university, but it also requires additional training for these professionals to work in a nuclear field. This may mean up to 3-5 years after completing a vocational school. There's too much change in the OAH right now. Even if you have no staff to fill the stock with, you have no qualified professional to do this serious job for your salary, even though they have to watch all the nuclear areas during this period. Both companies and energy matters belong to you. That is why I ask: what do you want to do about training professionals? How do you intend to further operate the Paks Energy High School and College? What do you intend to do to ensure that scholarship programmes have an impact? Or what other scholarships would you like to launch to provide normal training in this area? For seven years, we have been waiting for more serious action, and so far there has not been any serious action, so I look forward to a positive response.
u2017-06-12-187	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer - as I said - will be given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-12-188	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He did raise an important question. The supply of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is based on strong professional foundations and must be ensured in the long term, as we ensure. Only a system of education can provide this, which ensures a high quality and continuous workforce capable of working in a nuclear environment. School-based secondary education takes place on the one hand in the Szekszárd Vocational Training Centre, which is maintained by the Ministry of National Economy, and on the other hand in the Energy Secondary School and College, representing the Paks Nuclear Power Plant's educational base. These educational institutions serve the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and MVM Paks II. Zrt. , e.g. electrical technicians, mechanical engineering technicians, nuclear energetic qualifications. The Nuclear Technical Institute of the Faculty of Natural Sciences of the Budapest University of Technology and Economics is an inter-university educational facility, whose main task is to train students of the Budapest University of Technology and other Hungarian higher education institutions in the field of nuclear technology. In line with this, Paks Nuclear Power Plant Ltd. operates its own training system. Paks Nuclear Power Plant Ltd. the training system recommended by the International Atomic Energy Agency has been adapted as a result of the educational model project between 94 and 98 and has built up a maintenance training centre that is still rare in the world. This work is classified as the model programme, indicating that it agrees with the objectives of the project and considers its results to be a model for other countries. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-189	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2017-06-12-190	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. What you have listed has worked for a long time, but in the next period more than 1100 people will be needed, said István Hamvas, CEO. My question is still: what about the EZI? Will you receive vocational training support? Will he receive your support? And can this school continue to work to ensure the operation of the current nuclear power plant, the professionals? Will the scholarship programmes work? Because right now, they're announced, but they don't work, young people don't show up. Will the OAH be given an extra frame to supervise these organs? There must be money for this, because an office that oversees all nuclear fields in Hungary today must have enough money to pay the professionals, to supervise you, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and all areas where nuclear energy is or where radiation is dealt with. That is why I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply: does the ETUC receive money - the question is very simple - and the scholarship programmes will work? Thank you.
u2017-06-12-191	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr János Fónagy is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2017-06-12-192	In keeping with my fellow Member's proposal, I briefly reply that I do. They've already had one. To allow my fellow Members to understand the question: the point is that they were previously four-year funding cycles, and now Paks II. because of its entry into the European Union, these institutions have temporarily received one-year funding due to institutional organisation and their future design, but I am convinced that we will return to the four-year or longer-term training funding system. [[17.20]] By the way, Atomic Power Plant Ltd. Its educational organisation still has educational facilities that meet all the needs, and its funding will, of course, continue to be provided for the benefit of the country and the profession. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-193	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What political achievement is rewarded and inviolable? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding [[Adam Mirkóczki: El.]] Or the Prime Minister will ask for the answer personally. Congressman Adam Mirkóczki, please.
u2017-06-12-194	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, If a political analyst or a journalist who is susceptible to public life, or anyone else would like to draw a positive picture of the political performance of Flórian Farkas, for example, would be in serious trouble, and I think I have formulated this in the most subtle way possible. If we take the work of Flórian Farkas as Minister for Roma Affairs, then it can be factually established that his parliamentary work, including committees, is zero, or just - I put it mildly - very cleverly. On the other hand, everything that characterizes and follows his activities every day can be found to be a series of fraud, scandals, theft, lies, and various abuses. I could tell you that all the time. I think, and I dare say, that, regardless of party standing, origin or anything else, a good-hearted person would expect such a workmanship to - and I put it in a citation sign - no party in Hungarian public life will tolerate such a man among his ranks any longer, and certainly will not reward him, and certainly not conclude a strategic agreement with him or his organization, and most importantly, there may be serious consequences in the legal sense of these activities. On the other hand, we saw and it shocked the Hungarian public, of course, by the fact that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, on behalf of the government, once again concluded an agreement with Flórian Farkas and his organization, without saying ergo, but indirectly, he also said that he was fully politically inviolable, and that he was once again rewarded as Minister's Commissioner. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] I'm asking you, without deliriousness, how real political you are. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] performance results in such inviolability and such a reward. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-12-195	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-06-12-196	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, When the cooperation between the minority self-government and the Ministry of Human Resources was on the agenda here in Parliament because of questions from other fellow Members, many of us, on behalf of the government, emphasized that in minority matters, the community leading the minority, some leaders, body of representatives, or even social organisations have a huge responsibility for the use of minority funds. In particular, in the case of the Roma community in Hungary, it has been said on a regular basis that the funds provided for catching up have not been used properly and inappropriately in the last 20 years. The same applies to my fellow politicians who regularly apply this string: why give money to gypsies, they cannot use it well. I think that everyone has a great responsibility in this regard, and that a particular problem, deficit, irregularity or abuse is very damaging to the case, as is the fact that out of 44 thousand grant contracts, this one has been brought to Parliament for weeks and months. Because we have 41,000 grant contracts between 2007 and 2013. As far as Fidesz is concerned, there is a rule in Fidesz, a long time ago; the old people knew that, and we had to learn: everyone is primarily responsible for himself. Of course, if our fellow Member Flórian Farkas is being accused or attacked of any kind, he must be able to defend himself himself. The other thing, the question is, are you... [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] - excuse me, fellow Members - would you bring this matter up if Flórian Farkas were not a Fidesz Member. I don't think so. Then you wouldn't be talking about this case. They're talking about it because Flórian Farkas is a fidesz congressman. And don't make a misunderstanding because you've made a mistake, but because for many years, even decades, Lungo Drom has been a political ally of Fidesz. The leaders of Lungo Drom are not elected by the Fidesz Presidency, but by Lungo Drom. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-197	Thank you, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki. Here you go.
u2017-06-12-198	Dear Minister, Unlike you, I say and think that Flórian Farkas enjoys unlimited political protection and inviolability because he is a fidesz politician, and obviously not the 43 999, let us say so far, has not been found an irregularity, and let us say that he or any other member of his organization has made a positive and effective contract, but I think that if we take the integration of gypsy seriously, it has serious measures. One is obviously the degree of taxation and employment, and perhaps even more important measure of social inclusion is education. If we look at these data, we see that not only do we need to take control of your government, but it has almost stagnated and preserved since 90, in fact, only the size of the soul changes in a positive direction. This is a case, we know exactly, and we can now say between politicians: two social groups can decide an election. One is the retirement society, and the other is now a society of Hungarian gypsies. I think and I say that I would have expected a straight answer to what is the achievement that we have been looking for for seven years in the walls of Parliament, which is worth such a stand for the work of such a man. I think it's that you guys are for money. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] expect him to bring you the vote by mass. I wanted an answer to that. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-12-199	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-06-12-200	First of all, I would like to start by saying interesting and exciting things to my fellow Member; I hope that the record is accurate, because both parts of what he has to say can still have political consequences. The first part concerns the conditions under which the Roma community in Hungary lives. Even the sociologist community most opposed to us does not dispute the fact that, for example, child poverty or poverty in Hungary in general has changed significantly and positively since 2010 among the poorest social groups, partly because of a work-based society instead of aid. So the judgement that everything is the same, that nothing changes, that is not the case, because there is a positive change, has been acknowledged by the European Commission itself. Another comment is who decides the election. For Fidesz and KDNP, the election will be decided by the 8 million Hungarian voters with permanent residences and by the nearly one million new Hungarian voters without permanent residence, who are Hungarian citizens. And we Hungarian citizens and citizens do not distinguish between elections and other areas of life, whether young, retired or Roma or not. I must reject this in the strongest possible way. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-201	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, József Attila Móring, representative of the KDNP, notary of the Parliament wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question:. What does the government do to increase security of energy supply? It's an address. Minister János Fónagy has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. [[For signal:]] Mr. Congressman, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. János Fónagy, has indicated his acceptance as a response. Accordingly, Mr Attila Móring has the floor. Here you go, notary.
u2017-06-12-202	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The use of renewable energy sources is also in the interest of sustainable development and of our common future. The Christian Democratic People's Party is committed to integrating and using renewable energy sources. However, it is important to know that the proper integration of renewable energy sources requires significant improvements at technical, regulatory and market planning levels. [[17 .30]] The transition of the European energy system to a low-carbon economy should take account of these and should not forget to increase security of supply, but the adoption of solutions to justified structural changes at European level should always take into account the different economic and social characteristics of Member States. Under no circumstances should the principles of proportionality be allowed to limit national competences and competences guaranteeing security of supply. As stated by the Parliament in its previous decision, Hungary disagrees with the limitation of the law of the Member States on regulated end-user electricity prices and the determination of the energy mix. Dear Secretary of State, Hungary has made significant progress in the use of renewable energy sources. The share of renewable energy in total gross final energy consumption today exceeds our EU commitment for 2020 of 13%, but further steps are needed to further increase and integrate the share of renewable energy sources. However, this can only be achieved if national competences and competences guaranteeing security of supply do not narrow in any way. That is why I am asking the honourable Secretary of State what the Government is doing to increase security of energy supply. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-203	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. The answer will be given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-12-204	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian government's aim is to guarantee affordable and secure energy supply for Hungarian consumers. On the basis of the nuclear-carbon-green scenario contained in the national energy strategy, the government has sought and sought to develop an energy mix that guarantees security of supply in the long term, serves to achieve our CO2 emission targets in an economical way and contributes to safeguarding the results of the reduction of the costs. In addition to infrastructure improvements implemented, regional cooperation needs to be strengthened in order to increase security of supply. We support regional and European Union initiatives in line with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, which do not violate national competences, but we do not agree with the European Commission, otherwise, with a nice name. Clean energy for all Europeans! By limiting end-user electricity prices and Member States' right to determine the energy mix, by transferring decisions on capacity mechanisms to the EU level and by setting up regional operational centres, the package of proposals. Behind these well-capped sentences, if they are removed from national competence, they will necessarily fall into the hands of world and European large multinational service providers, and the results of both security of supply and reduction of overhead costs - and I add their future goals - will be put at risk. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-205	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is due to Mr Attila Móring József, a notary. Here you go.
u2017-06-12-206	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's positive response. It is reassuring that the government is giving priority both to Hungary's energy security and to the preservation of the results of the reduction in electricity so far, and is also doing so by further increasing the share of renewable energy sources. I think that these are all issues which should not be allowed, and that is why the Christian Democratic Group fully supports the government's energy policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-207	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr János Fónagy is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-12-208	Honourable Congressman, Allow me to say, for the sake of completeness, that the ongoing nuclear development will provide roughly half of the energy demand in Hungary in the coming decades, and the other 50 percent we intend to give a very serious role to renewables, reaching the goals that I have indicated in the previous ones. In the national consultation concluded in May, nearly 1.7 million people stood up for low energy prices and clearly took the view that they did not wish to be transferred to the hands of those who did not have any direct or indirect power to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-209	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question: "Programme for nothing? It's an address. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor, please.
u2017-06-12-210	Thank you very much. I was a little surprised to hear you say that we are always talking about one thing, one project, one program, Flórian Farkas' project. There are several, I don't know if you've heard of the state reform programme, the Roma state reform programme, it was worth 1 billion forints, and therefore, in principle, 8,000 people received a 30-hour sensitivity training for approximately 300 thousand forints, but we also presented a lot. Now I've prepared another one. In 2015, KLIK purchased programs for approximately HUF 1 billion, HUF 900 million, and they took over this in very interesting circumstances, because the same person signed a performance certificate on the same day that it could be paid for, and then a very long list of errors that the program did not work, and they were given half a year's delay, but the information came that it still didn't work, so after a year and a half, in May 2017, these programs didn't work, and when I asked to look into it, I had to wait about half a year to allow it. When I went in, we started to line up: HR system, it doesn't work; property register, it doesn't work; single data request program, it doesn't work; procurement programs, it doesn't work; management information system, it doesn't work - well, I tell you, what do they use instead? They use an Excel board instead. The answer to each of them was that it would work, we got permission, and then it started, because of the changeover, which was, say, 1 January 2017 rather than 1 January 2016. It bleeds from a thousand wounds, but the most horrific and incomprehensible item was a teaching system, there is a program that has a teaching system whose main task is to settle enrollments, and the answer to this teaching system was that it was used in 2016, but in 2017 it was already used differently, using the KRÉTA system. My question is, what do you do with a 120 million-dollar program? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] What they don't use anymore, they don't even start, and they're using someone else instead. I believe that this must be repaid to the Union, and that will appear as a deficit in the budget. Thank you.
u2017-06-12-211	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-06-12-212	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm almost flattered. [[It's a rare blur.]] that a fellow Member, who was a fellow party not so long ago, had increased the number of traitors, so that a former fellow party and fellow Member thought that from the past period I knew every proposal in the European Union by heart, and that I could describe any one of the tens of thousands here in two minutes. Fortunately, Secretary of State Csepreghy, who follows the work of colleague Hadházy as an expert [[Defiance.]] , register the cases that our fellow Member is processing and we are trying to reflect on them. I understand from my notes that my colleagues have compiled about the work that you have done so far, so it turns out that the Member, as he said here, has been at the KLIK, and has tried to operate this IT system, and has tried to see how it works, and then my colleagues have informed you of what is already working and what is not working; and what is not working, has also been told to you by the government's staff at KLIK that, after operating in a 59 district system, it will not be a single management system, it will be a district management system, and therefore the IT system needs to be modified, so the software needs to be further developed, and that is why we have been able to get the European Commission to approve the final decision and final result by 31 December 2017. So you are now asking before the deadline for implementation whether this system is already working. It doesn't fully work yet, we're working on meeting the conditions, and it should be ready by 31 December. We are very happy to be at the disposal of the Member when the work is done. Please also leave the slow grinding mills of the executive power the opportunity to fill the gaps and do the work by 31 December. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-213	Thank you very much, Minister. One-minute rejoinder from Congressman Ákos Hadházy. Here you go. [[17.40]]
u2017-06-12-214	Thank you very much. This was a very weak argument, which was said in every program that changed, the system changed, the system changed, but compared to that, they didn't do anything with it for a year, and programmers tell me, and I think it's also realistic that because you have to give less or a few more access to a query, it doesn't have to be such a big task. The point is that the teaching system, one of these nine systems, was 120 million forints. Once again, it should be used to do enrollments or to distribute subjects in schools, but they replied otherwise. Here they replied that this was started to be used, this system was used in the 2016 enrollments, but Mrs Pölöskei came, said this five times, and she asked that they not use this, but the Neptun KRÉTA system. So in this system you can no longer say that you will use this, because there I have been recognised that this 120 million has already been completely thrown out, and in 2017 the KRÉTA system was already used. What about this 120 million forint? Thank you very much.
u2017-06-12-215	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-06-12-216	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I do not have the skills of my fellow Member to keep pace, so I have now been able to prepare professionally only from the cases that have been mentioned so far, where I have ordered an inquiry and the investigations have been completed. I am going to order an investigation in this case, and I have already done so, as I have just found out, I have already been somewhat aware of what you have raised, and the outcome of the inquiry, if Parliament gives me any opportunity, I will inform you in broad publicity, but in any way in writing. In the case of the University of Public Service, I have been informed in detail, and I have to say that the reason for the agreement on the very shocking offer price is that it is a sum of HUF 4.5 billion, which has been written out for 121 items, and since the envelope is HUF 4.5 billion, it must be equal to HUF 4.5 billion at the end of the allocation. By the way, I'll tell you that the irregularity investigation will be over there shortly, and if you don't have a Parliament next week in September, I'm sure I can answer more of your questions. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-217	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: It's an address. Congressman Zsolt Legány has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-06-12-218	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, I also honour the Minister, then, by thinking that he has up-to-date information on virtually all EU funding programmes and that my question concerns such a topic. Hunger is the everyday reality for many children and adults created by Fidesz in Hungary. Among the four million Hungarians living below the minimum living standards, there are those who are starving periodically, and there are those who may have access to food but not quality food. For families living in extreme poverty, the summer period is particularly desperate, as with the closure of schools and kindergartens, many children will be left without a certain daily meal. The European Union's Fund for European Aid to the Most Deprived seeks to change this situation. The name of this programme is precisely: the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived, in short FEAD, complements the activities of the Social Fund by supporting measures by which EU Member States are not financial - and I would like to stress specifically that they are not financial - but provide in-kind assistance to the most deprived social groups, whether in the form of food, clothing or toiletries. For the period 2014-2020, this represents around 93.9 million EU support for Hungary, to which the national supplement could be EUR 16.6 million. This overall means that Hungary could receive EUR 13 million by 2017. I would like to ask where more than EUR 13 million is under this operational programme. Where's the money? How does the government intend to use it? Do children living in poverty and starving in the summer of 2017 see anything from this EU money or source to help them? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-06-12-219	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-06-12-220	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. I hope that I will still be a member of a parliament where there is so much fairness to be expected from the opposing parties, that if such a serious issue is raised here, in Parliament's walls, as a meal for children in the summer, then will not the title be given to the question of the government's reenactment with foreign feathers? Because if the Member had referred to the question of eating children in the summer in one word, then perhaps my colleagues and I would have been smart enough to prepare for this and try to give you a correct answer. Believe me, I strive to ensure that the members of the government, my fellow ministers and colleagues of the State Secretary respond correctly, even if they fail, but with such a title it is difficult to hit it. What I can tell you, however, is that today there are about 140,000 children eating free of charge in the summer, free of charge from taxpayers' money in the organization of the government, which costs HUF 6.6 billion. I would just like to tell you that earlier, under your administration, the government spent a total of HUF 2 billion on this, and left the rest to the municipalities, who, because of lack of resources, often financed the summer meal on credit. The difference between these two governments has also increased radically from a few tens of thousands to 140 thousand children who eat free in summer, just as more than 300 thousand children eat free in daycare and kindergartens today, essentially all kindergarten children can eat free in Hungary, and in total there are about 700,000 or over 700,000 children who receive a free meal along with the elementary school. I would like to reject, in the strongest possible terms, what he did not say in a manner typical of you, and that is that in Hungary a single child would be starving because of the government. The only reason he's starving is if his parents don't show up. If parents apply that they cannot take care of the child, then the Hungarian state will take care of every Hungarian child in the summer months and during school teaching, because the Hungarian taxpayers make it possible. I will inform you about the EU programme in the next minute. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-221	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Zsolt Legény is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2017-06-12-222	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Therefore, the immediate question is a great genre, since question-answer and rejoinder-requite answer is possible. This is the title of my immediate question, that the government is decorated with foreign feathers, because, according to my information, I was hoping that you would deny it, in fact, in Eastern Hungary they are preparing for the package, for this kind of benefits in kind, not leaflets, but covers, which say that this particular source is being supplied by the government to poor people, people in need. That is why I gave this title to my comment or question whether the government is embellishing with foreign feathers, as it is a European Union funding, but you are trying to set it up in such a way that the Hungarian government and Fidesz give it to those in need. I think it is very false that, on the one hand, you are always busy pointing your finger at the Union, but on the other hand, you are trying to make the use of EU funds look like it was the credit of Fidesz or the credit of the government. Unfortunately, given the shortness of time, I could not explain this further and better. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2017-06-12-223	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-06-12-224	Thank you very much. As with all operational programmes, I think there will be a lot of talk about this here, among the walls of Parliament, my colleague, State Secretary Rétvári, is also at the disposal of our fellow Member. What I can tell you is that, on the proposal of the EMMI, the government has approved a budget of more than 30 billion in EU funding under this operational programme, as you have rightly said. Indeed, packages will be assembled for those living in the most disadvantaged conditions. The content, allocation and method of allocation of the package has a strict EU accounting system, and the fact that it will be financed by the European Union will be formulated in the same size, content and message as the Hungarian Government's support for this package distribution and this benefit, so there will be no difference between the Hungarian Government and the European Commission. We account for this support completely correctly both at home and at the European Commission, but I urge you, as an opposition representative, to follow the fate of this programme. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-225	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, It's 5:49 p.m., and we're done with the immediate questioning hour. Now we move on to oral questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Imre Horváth, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Defence:. When will the civil servants of the Hungarian Defence Office be paid? It's an address. Congressman Imre Horváth has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-12-226	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, One of the weaknesses of the 2018 budget proposal is the salary table determining the salaries of civil servants. At present, the starting fee according to the service table is HUF 69 thousand, which has remained unchanged since 2010, and according to this, according to the proposal of the 18th, will not change next year. This amount is much less than the minimum wage, but let's not talk about the minimum wage. [[17.50]] Regardless of the qualifications and the number of years worked by a large number of civil servants, they only earn a minimum wage or minimum wage. In this terrible picture, only a few sectors have been mitigated by the so-called career models that have been introduced in recent years. The proposal on the 2018 budget shows that the Orbán government has no reason to change this. I'm asking you, what an appreciation this is for the employees involved in the implementation of state and municipal tasks. The Hungarian Defence Office has a very large number of civil servants. A significant proportion of them also carry out military tasks, which should actually be carried out by soldiers. This is only estimated by the Hungarian government with a supplement of HUF 16 900. This is the amount that comes to realize the civil servant's salary, which has been frozen for almost a decade. Moreover, it appears from the budget proposal that even this modest bonus is not planned to be increased next year. That's why I'm asking Mr. Secretary of State if it's acceptable for you to keep the civil servant salary table unchanged. Did the Ministry of Defence propose the payment of civil servants? Or do you consider the 16 900 forints sectoral allowance to be sufficient compensation for decades of leasing? Thank you, I look forward to your reply.
u2017-06-12-227	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-06-12-228	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We believe and believe that defence is a national matter, and in the spirit of this national creed, we thank and appreciate the service of our soldiers, and we also thank and appreciate our non-military civil servants for the cause of defence, so nearly one third of the civil servants of the defence have received or have been constantly raised as a result of decisions in the health and public education sector over the past years, which has been added to the team health beard at the Ministry of Defence, the wallet. The civil servants of culture, arts, public collections and public education also benefit from a sectoral salary increase, and the civil servants of defence not benefiting from sectoral wage developments received a salary increase of 5-5 per cent and 10 per cent in two steps. Together with the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, the civil servants concerned received a 10% wage increase. In addition to the above, we also have an extensive social, non-wage benefit scheme, from which public employees will also benefit: catering contributions, rent payments, voluntary cash contribution, bank account contributions, school year contributions, to mention only a few. And those who did not benefit from sectoral wage developments also received an average of 4 percent salary supplement from 1 January 2017. I can assure the Member that we will do everything we can to recognise and appreciate not only the service of our soldiers, but also the work of our civil servants. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-12-229	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, notary of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Minister without a wallet for national politics:. How long will the settlement of the situation of foreign Hungarian schools wait? It's an address. Congressman István Szávay, notary, please.
u2017-06-12-230	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The number of Hungarians travelling abroad from the country has made negative records every year during your administration. We will, of course, work on government to call as many people home as possible, but at the same time, you should take note and acknowledge that there are very many people who wish to settle permanently abroad. The preservation of the Hungarian consciousness of this new emigration is at least as important as that of people living in foreign areas; the Hungarian state cannot give up on them either. Not only is it because they themselves contribute to public spending through their referrals, but also because it is of national strategic importance how they and their descendants will relate to the motherland, know our language, culture, or return later. In the meantime, however, we see that unfortunately the Hungarian state does not have a well-thought-out strategy on how to keep these people, how to build churches, schools and community spaces for them. Our well-intentioned amendments to the case are being voted out, and this is what has happened today with the proposal that I myself tabled in support of foreign Hungarian schools, which was voted off by the Secretary of State, by the way. After the many times we urged for the Hungarian schools on the weekend, we finally see a kind of work, and we know that, and we welcome that, of course, although we still do not see the concrete results of this. I would also like to bring a specific issue here, and that is the case of the Hungarian school and kindergarten in Dublin, which you, Mr Secretary of State, promised a HUF 3 million grant over a year ago during your visit to Ireland. This amount has been expected since then, and has not been seen a penny of it since, despite the fact that the MTI and the entire steering machine at the time gave quite detailed news about it a year ago. So I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State three things: how is the organisation of the foreign Hungarian institutional network and the school network basically? When will meaningful work begin? When is a complex educational strategy expected to be developed or at least convened by the heads of the institutions concerned? And finally, when will the promised support for the Hungarian school and kindergarten in Dublin be paid? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-12-231	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State János Potápi. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-06-12-232	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for all three questions. I must say, as you know, that you are banging open doors, because we have talked about this issue several times before the two of us and the committee. I'd like to start with the third, the Dublin school. We've contacted them several times. The Hungarian school in Dublin is currently not supported because the institution is not registered. We look forward to the Hungarian organization that we can support, who is registered, and through them we can support the school. Let me say a few words about the educational strategy and the schools in the diaspora at all. Two minutes does not allow me to report on all schools, since 212 schools operate in Hungary and outside the Carpathian Basin: 4720 students are studying in these usually weekend schools in the world. Of these, only 80 students are home-schooled in Hungary, but 37 percent of schoolchildren claim that they would like to prepare for or graduate according to the Hungarian system. Over the weekend, Minister Zoltán Balog visited Toronto, the largest Hungarian school, the St. Elizabeth School. Péter Szilágyi negotiated with representatives of 27 schools in New York. He was traveling on Friday, he's home today, so it was a lightning visit, but we keep in touch with the schools. I expect that this year, we hope that in the autumn we will have an educational strategy that schools and governments can use. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-12-233	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources what kind of wage increase will the non-peducating staff receive next year in education? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, please.
u2017-06-12-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In countries luckier than Hungary, foresight governments have discovered decades ago that there is no quality education without staff directly assisting education and education. Nurses, pedagogical assistants, labs, librarians, IT experts, and I'd say they're doing a very important job, and they haven't gotten a real raise so far. Since 2008, they have received a salary increase for the first time this year, but it was only 7+3 percent. The previous losses were not covered in any way. Moreover, due to the collapse of the civil servant pay table, they have been in an extremely unfair situation, and those who have been on the track for many decades earn the same amount as those with a career starter or a lower education. [[18.00]] It is equally important to talk about staff working in different background institutions. They do education and education, but they don't do teaching jobs. Mostly we're talking about people with pedagogical education who've missed out on the career model. They also work in the agoras created by Fidesz, which are important rural institutions for the dissemination of scientific knowledge. The collapse of the civil servant pay table also hits them, we receive worrying letters that next year the entire staff will earn a minimum wage of skilled workers, regardless of their education and career time, gross HUF 180,000. Dear Secretary of State, These are amazing disproportions, injustices. There are tens of thousands of workers who cannot support their families. Will there be support measures for them, will they receive a wage increase next year? How is it possible that anyone who deals with children and students gets a minimum wage? How is it possible that they do not give priority to these jobs? How can quality education be expected if young teachers and educators are not appreciated? How big a raise do they get in 2018? Thank you very much. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2017-06-12-235	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-06-12-236	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, We have sought to ensure that all workers in education feel that resources are growing within education. We started a series of wage increases with the teachers, because their appreciation and keeping them on the field was the most important thing, so that teachers with good skills would not leave the teaching field. That is why we have increased the salary of teachers by 50 percent overall in several steps. However, it was important that those who work directly in the job of educating and coaching should also feel the increased appreciation, so we tried to provide them with financial progress in several steps. One was that two years ago we extended the teaching career from 1 September to those who had a pedagogue, so they made a very big step forward, as they were paid according to the teacher career. In the meantime, we have tried to make a proposal, in which they received two HUF 35 thousand Erzsébet vouchers - in net terms, of course, the 35 thousand - as an out-of-wage allowance, and as you pointed out, from this year on they received and received a 10% wage increase, 7 percent of it is fixed, and 3 percent of it can be more, according to the head of the institution, because those who provide better performance are over 3 percent plus those who are 7 percent, who, in turn, are not as good as the head of the institution, can obviously be less. But everyone had to get at least 7 percent, and on average, this increase was 10 percent. If we add this result to what was typical before 2010 - the taking of one month's wages or the cessation of operations in more than 180 places, the dismissal of 15,000 teachers - then I think we have finally made progress. But we do not want to stop here, because it is important to acknowledge the special task of school secretaries, and many others - librarians and whom you are directly assisting in educational work - will also have further suggestions from the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-237	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sándor Bodó, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy:. What do the TOP resources mean in the life of the counties? It's an address. Congressman Sándor Bodó has the floor.
u2017-06-12-238	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the government's measures, Hungary has today taken the road to stable economic growth, so that the OECD has already revised the forecast of economic growth in Hungary upwards for this year. Significant improvements have been made in recent years in Hungary thanks to the co-financing of the European Union. These investments have greatly contributed to the return of the Hungarian economy to growth and development after the decade wasted by socialist governments. This is why I think it is a very positive development that, for the 2014-2020 EU financial cycle, 18 counties and 22 county-right cities can receive the pre-specified allocation of aid on the basis of their own integrated territorial programmes. As far as I know, the total budget available for seven years from the so-called TOP programme - an operational programme for territorial and urban development - was fully announced by the end of March 2017, according to government intentions. I am very pleased that the government has decided, for balanced development, that there is no need to fight the counties and county-righted cities for resources, but that they can decide to support local development within the framework at their disposal. Dear Secretary of State, What does this mean for Hungary and Hajdú-Bihar County? Where are the invitations to tender? The effective use of EU funds is vital, and the amounts that can be obtained can make a significant contribution to catching up the Hungarian countryside. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State what the TOP resources mean in the life of the counties. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-239	Thank you very much, Congressman Sándor Bodo. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2017-06-12-240	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you said, the implementation of the operational programme for territorial development has begun. This is a very special programme, because in Hungary there has not been any use of resources, a development framework that only affected the municipalities, and in good case could affect all the municipalities of Hungary. It is also very important to say that it has also changed compared to the previous projects that, as you said, the 18 counties and 22 county-righted cities and the municipalities concerned have been able to tell what their local needs are, and the programme has been drawn up on the basis of it, and the announcements have been planned. The most important novelty and change, perhaps, is that while local governments have been forced to pay or create self-esteem, and this has often been done by credit, and so the municipality has been indebted, this is not the case here, since the TOP provides 100 percent of the resources to the municipalities, so that they can make their development out of HUF 1262 billion. Development means two-way development, both economic development and infrastructure development. 69 calls were made, 35 of which were open and 34 were closed. A total of 2900 urban projects with county and county rights have been supported up to now worth nearly HUF 640 billion, which, I stress once again, will help local economic development, job creation and infrastructure development. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-241	Thank you very much, Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Independent Member Gábor Fodor wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question: what does the government intend to do to compensate the sufferers of the ice damage in the region of Gyöngyös? It's an address. Congressman Gábor Fodor has the floor.
u2017-06-12-242	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The effects of climate change can also be felt by us Hungarians, as in recent times huge storms, combined with a flood, have struck the country. In May, for example, as much rain fell in a day at several points in our country as usual in a month. As former Minister, I consider it a serious mistake that the Orbán Government has abolished the Ministry of Environment and Water, because environmental protection - contrary to Prime Minister's position - is not just the luxury of rich countries. The government does not have a strategy to mitigate the negative effects of climate change. There is no plan to exploit the potential of partially taxed, partly even banned renewable energies. We see that the Secretary of State is not enough to remedy the difficulties caused by climate change. On May 13, a devastating storm struck the city of Gyöngyös and its surroundings. Countless damaged cellars and lofts remained after the price, gardens and houses destroyed by the terrible storm. Hundreds of people who couldn't afford expensive insurance for their homes are still waiting for help from somewhere. We learned from the President of the Mátra Mountain Council that a quarter of the nearly 5,000 hectares of agricultural land were hit by ice in Heves County. Farmers will only be able to obtain compensation from the Compensation Fund, which will be around 40 percent of the actual loss. [[18.10]] I ask you, Secretary of State, to assess the damage caused by the storm in mid-May and to establish a special fund in the region from which the residents and farmers can be compensated. At the same time, I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether the possibility of restoring the Ministry of Environment and Water could be justified by both professional and political arguments, and if so, by when. Thank you for your reply.
u2017-06-12-243	Thank you, Congressman Gábor Fodor. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2017-06-12-244	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, We fully agree that environmental protection is one of the most serious problems of the future. All the climate change we are living in and what we are facing will cause very serious problems, very serious situations. Not only in Hungary, but in the whole world. We can safely say that it is a global problem. If we look at agriculture for this, then I have to say to you that by 2050 there will be 9 billion of us, and 20 years from now, we will have to provide 40 percent more protein on people's tables, while the space where it can be produced narrowed, precisely because of climate change. I must say that the request or the question of whether the environment was damaged or disadvantaged in the work of the government was first understood and adopted by Parliament, ratified the Paris Convention, and Hungary was very constructive in this regard. If you look at those questions as a former minister, you must see that we must give interdisciplinary answers to these serious global issues, that the profession cannot answer only in itself, but also that of co-professionals. I consider that the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture is also responsible for environmental protection strengthens this possibility. On the one hand, more resources are available, more immersion is available, and, on the other hand, the possibility of taking action from a wider perspective helps to protect the environment. Moreover, agriculture and environmental protection cannot be separated, because they are very closely linked. Pearly. The government has surveyed these situations infinitely. It also extended the possibility of insurance, the possibility of self-care. We support 65 percent of people's insurance so that it doesn't get expensive so they can do it. In addition, if you have an urgent problem, you can take out a loan free of interest, at 0 percent, which can be repaid. So we're doing everything we can to make up for that damage. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-06-12-245	Thank you very much, Secretary of State István Nagy. Dear Parliament, László Kiss, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Another sports colony disappears on the coast of Rome? It's an address. At the request of Prime Minister Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent on the subject, State Secretary János Fónagy will answer the question. Mr László Kiss has the floor.
u2017-06-12-246	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I think that what is the underlying purpose of my question is agreed by everyone, that is to say, that on the coast of Rome it should continue to be a vibrant, primarily water sports culture, and that, after the change ban expires in the area, this sport should not be a victim of real estate poo. This is why it is important to have a sports establishment of the kayak-kenu association at 33 Kings Road, which used to be the sports site of KSH. They moved the tenants from here in November, claiming that there would be reconstructions, but these reconstructions didn't happen, and that didn't happen. In fact, I'm told they haven't even filed a request like this. The owner of the property is the Hungarian National Asset Manager, as far as I know; if I do not know, please correct me. As far as I know, the rental of the establishment has since ceased the kayak-kenu association and the other tenant, BMSK, which is no surprise, given that another similar establishment of this association has been unused, so why would it maintain this property? I consider this trend to be very dangerous, and as far as I know, since I submitted the question, there have been developments in this case, which, if you can tell me, I would be very happy to hear. At the same time, I ask the Secretary of State: is it possible that the sports yard will not open at the beginning of the season? Is it true that the landlords have left the colony? What is the intention of the trustee to exploit the property? Is it possible for the trustee to negotiate directly with the cabin tenants and to maintain the function of a sports establishment? Also, a final question: is it expected that the Ministry, the trustee, will recognize that with a single ownership approach, this sport function can usually stay on the coast of Rome and develop such a ownership approach? Thank you for the floor. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-06-12-247	Thank you, Congressman László Kiss. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-06-12-248	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Magyar Nemzeti Vagyonkezelő Zrt. as an entity exercising public ownership rights over the property and the Investment, Technical Development, Sport Management and Public Procurement Zrt., in Hungarian BMSK Zrt. The lease agreement for the holding in question is currently in force. BMSK Zrt. in May. and the previous lease agreement between the Hungarian Kajak-Kenu Association has indeed expired, so the operation of the plant is currently carried out by BMSK. The plant is still operational, according to my information, it's not closed. MNV Zrt. examine the exploitation of the property concerned within the framework of the legislative provisions on the management of national and state assets, where possible by keeping - and I must say, personally, by encouraging it - its original function as a sports establishment. Thank you for the question and for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-12-249	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. The last question is a simple question; though it may not be so smooth, it follows. István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question, "When can we get to the prison on M49?" It's an address. At the request of Prime Minister Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent on the subject, State Secretary János Fónagy will answer the question. Congressman István Apáti has the floor.
u2017-06-12-250	Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about the time-related development of two Prime Minister's promises, as at the end of last autumn, Prime Minister promised to start construction of the M49 road in Szatmárnémeti for the first time in the end of the Romanian election campaign. This promise was repeated on 4 May 2017 at the ceremony of the Csengeri district school, while at the same time promising to build the prison in Beller as soon as possible. Compared to this, the M49 road has been the area's four-way case for 20 years, they've been campaigning for 20 years, they've been promising that nothing will ever happen. However, we know that the lives of people living in the Satmar region are greatly affected by the current traffic on Route 49, in the Csenger-Győrtelek section, in one hundred percent of Kosord's territory and in a large part of Mátészalka. Based on the 2006 traffic count, we know that Kocsordon was at that time 10 324 vehicles, then in 2010 more than 16,000 vehicles passed 24 hours. They promised to build it until 2013 until Oxytophülpös, then to start in 2014. The next promise was in 2017. It never became anything, so you can't take promises seriously. As far as the prison in Bell is concerned, the story is correct that because of unrealistically high bids, the procurement procedure has been declared ineffective and a new procedure has to be launched. At the same time, this is a greater slippage compared to the absolutely necessary slide, we hope it does not mean that, since if the construction is completed by 20 instead of 2019, it is acceptable. After all, in 2015, the municipality of Csenger won this right, since then about 80 people have signed up for education and training, most of them have left their former jobs, and the municipality has invested a lot of money in the preparatory work. It is also important for job creation and is also essential for reducing the overcrowding of Hungarian prisons. That's why I'm asking you, when are you gonna start building the road, physically and physically, and when are we gonna get to that beautiful M49 road to the built prison in Bell? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-12-251	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-06-12-252	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In fact, the preparatory work of the M49 motorway started before 2015 at the National Infrastructure Developer, and the investment feasibility and environmental impact assessment was carried out, for which the environmental authorisation was also granted. [[18.20]] The environmental permit applies to the section up to Ököritófülpös, the planner also proposed the construction of the two-track road twice for this 17-kilometer section. The Government decision on the coordination and implementation of infrastructure investments related to Hungary's short- and medium-term road development by 2022 sets out the development plans for the following years in a uniform, overview concept. In addition, the government will review the progress of each development on a quarterly basis, take action if necessary to make justified changes, and the scope of the investments set out in the Annex will continue to be extended. As regards the case of the prison in Bell, I would like to inform you that the public procurement procedure for prison building, as you said, is underway, is being carried out in a scheduled manner. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-12-253	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will move on to our next item on the agenda. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain tax laws and other related laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/15428. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I therefore give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-06-12-254	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 8 June 2017 shall be subject to the provisions of house rules 46. T/15428 on the amendment of certain tax laws and other related laws. By decision of 9 June, the Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 21 votes in favour against and 2 votes against and no abstentions. The summary report contains, on the one hand, the proposal for an amendment to the Committee on Economic Affairs closing a detailed debate, with the exception of its six points, and the legislative committee's own proposal by oral addition to our fellow Member, György Balla, according to which pig meat offal may be placed within the 5-percent VAT area. The Committee did not support the amendment text of the MSZP or the LMP, as they would result in an unduly high revenue loss of 100 and 170 billion for the budget. At the same time, it should be noted that, as is apparent from the bill before us, the government is constantly examining the range of products and services in which tax reductions can be made subject to the burden-bearing capacity of the Hungarian economy, whether it is basic food or even digital access. That is why I am asking for the support of the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-12-255	Thank you very much, Congressman Sándor Hadházy. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] No. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. I give the floor to the German ethnic advocate Ritter Imre, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, on a six-minute time frame.
u2017-06-12-256	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nummer T/15428. uber die Änderung einiges Steuergesetze und andere zugehöriges Gesetze erörtere. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on bill No 15428 on the amendment of certain tax laws and other related laws. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary is the House Rule 44-45. It held a detailed discussion of the bill on the basis of Article 5 of the Act. Our committee for the bill is the resolution house rule 32. Having examined the provisions of the notification referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure, it concluded that they were in conformity with the rules of the House of Decisions. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. Our Commission did not take a position on the amendments tabled to the bill, nor did it intend to make any further amendments. The Commission did not submit a proposal for an amendment closing the in-depth debate and closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 23 May 2017. On this basis, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary is T/15428 on the amendment of certain tax laws and other related laws. It agrees with, supports, and asks this House to adopt the bill in favour of it. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-12-257	Thank you very much, Mr Imre Ritter. Dear Parliament, The speeches by the representatives are now taking place in the time frame on the agenda and can be seen on the table. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Commission President Erik Bánki, Fidesz.
u2017-06-12-258	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary's tax policy changed fundamentally after 2010. The government's strategic objective was to continuously reduce taxes and contributions in order to broaden the scope of taxpayers and to clearly achieve the whitening of the black and grey economy by reducing the tax burden. Fidesz has always been committed to reducing labour costs and taxes within the tax reduction programme. Thank God, the performance of the economy has given us the opportunity to continuously reduce taxes in Hungary. In the framework of the tax reduction, it was possible not only to reduce wage costs, corporate tax, personal income tax and many other taxes, but also to reduce the VAT on a number of basic foods, which improved the standard of living for tens of thousands of Hungarian families. The tax package in front of you continues this way: next year the VAT rate for fish and pig offal will decrease from 27 percent to 5 percent, and the VAT for the internet will decrease from 18 percent to 5 percent. We believe that the lower tax burden strengthens the whitening of the economy and that it has a significant role to play in increasing the revenue of the budget in line with this. Dear House, According to the bill, from the following year the income from the transfer of medical practice acquired under the right of the subject will be exempt, the amount of housing aid which the employer is exempt from tax and the scope of tax-free scholarships will be increased. All administrative procedures at first instance will be free of charge and the scope of the small-scale brewery will be extended. These are just a few elements of the cuts expected in next year's budget, which clearly show that next year's tax package contains a number of mitigating benefits for Hungarian taxpayers. The MSZP, on the other hand, wants to raise taxes in a way that gives the budget a surplus of HUF 300 billion. While László Botka is running for Prime Minister, let the rich pay! They campaigned with a cancerist slogan, and none of their Members submitted any substantive amendments to the bill defining next year's tax policy, so we failed to find out how they planned the tax revenue surplus that would then be distributed according to another transfer. What we do know, however, is that unemployment has doubled during their governance, a full month's wage has been taken from public sector workers, and other workers have been hit by a series of tax increases. I would add that the pensioners were also affected by the removal of the 13th month pension, making their living conditions virtually impossible. [[18.30]] In contrast, thanks to Fidesz's policy, 700,000 more people have been working in Hungary since 2010, and people from work are helped by tax cuts and wage increases. The minimum wage increases by 15 percent this year and the minimum wage by 25 percent. The salaries of nurses, doctors, teachers, soldiers, police, social, cultural and higher education workers and government officials, postmen, railmen and water workers are also increased. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to a number of text-focusing and legal changes, the summarised amendment also includes a number of additional provisions which are favourable to taxpayers. The amending proposal, inter alia, allows the elimination of land use under the Law on the marketing of agricultural and forestry land to be subject to a duty exemption, in order to achieve a full reduction in administration, and in addition, favourable rules can be applied in pending cases. In order to encourage small investors, the proposal abolishes the previous restriction on the nominal value of ordinary shares to be issued by a regulated real estate investment company. The proposal raises the revenue limit from HUF 125 million to HUF 250 million until professional athletes and coaches can opt for taxation under the simplified public burden-sharing contribution. The automatic monitoring unit for the supply of food shall be provided as from 1 December 2017. The summary amending proposal provides for the designation of the asylum supervisory service provider for the full implementation of this Regulation. According to the amendment, the government is authorised to establish detailed rules on asylum services. Dear House, To sum up, we can therefore conclude that, as in recent years, the bill before you will further reduce taxes, expand the range of products and services covered by the reduced VAT rate, and include a number of forward-looking measures that will contribute to further reducing the grey and black economy and, together with increasing the tax revenues of the budget. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the amendment and the adoption of the whole law in the vote tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-06-12-259	Thank you, Commission President Erik Bánki. The next speaker was Ms Schmuck Erzsébet.
u2017-06-12-260	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As we said in the debate on the law, this year's tax laws will not make any difference in any area where it is needed. They continue to pursue their misguided policies and even strengthen them. One of the best examples of this is that sports preferences can now be described from the bank tax. On several occasions, we have said that the mass channelling of public funds into the top sport you are doing is harmful to the country. Obviously, they think that the Prime Minister's hobby is worth it; we think it is neither small money nor small money. Since its introduction, the sports corporate tax discount has already reduced the joint cash register by more than HUF 400 billion and added 300-400 billion of stadium developments from other sources. The vast majority of the public money poured into sport in this way lands at the top of the sport, professional sports, although we are not sure about the latter, after the match against Andorra. It is certain that Viktor Orbán's famous movement should be applied here: do not look at what we are saying, but what we are doing. Well, with the support of 800 billion in top sports, construction of 3 billion gyms per year and construction of another 3 billion schooles per year - these are the rates, if you look at how much it is devoted to sports in this narrow layer and how much it is to support everyday sports in everyone's interest. The real lack of current tax laws is that it does not try to remedy the process that has already been recognised by their domestic quack László Parragh. Low wages can no longer be kept due to the impossibility of living, on the one hand, and emigration, on the other hand, but much of the small and medium-sized domestic-owned companies are unable to grow suddenly, although there is a very good solution to this, which we have been saying for years. LMP has always been in favour of a significant general wage increase, which can be achieved in the transformation of personal income tax. All it takes to do so is to bring the tax system to the service of many, not the few. The minimum wage must be tax-free and progressive taxation from a low level must be introduced. Based on the proposal of the LMP, the net of the minimum wage would increase by HUF 26 thousand compared to the system of Fidesz 2018. This is an immediate net wage increase of 28.6%. At the average wage, the surplus would be HUF 38,000 at HUF 300,000 gross, which is an 18.8% increase. But even double average wage earners would take 23,000 forints more home. It is true that the 1 million State Secretary's salaries would pay more, but we believe that in this situation, such well-earned earners should contribute more to the common register. This would mean that a general increase in wages at national level would be achieved without increasing the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. You are constantly rejecting this simple and useful change for almost everyone. Of course, they still have the opportunity to make this right, but all they have to do is support the LMP's amendments in the final vote. In the budget, the wage increase that raises everyone is covered, but you support the rich and the multinationals instead of Hungarian workers and small businesses. Common funds have been used to reduce taxes on multinationals, and hundreds of billions are poured into the pockets of their own oligarchs. The workers or people seeking work would also be served by the LMP's amendment that would reduce the VAT on public transport to 5%. Available-price public transport in both rural and large cities is key to finding a job and perhaps taking a job a little further away from being forced to emigration or community service. On the other hand, not only do you not support public transport, but let the lower road network be completely destroyed and leave the Budapest Metro 3, the means of transport of millions, in a life-threatening state. Finally, the livelihood of low-income earners would also be facilitated by the full reduction of VAT on basic foods. This has been partly started with half a heart after many years of urgency, but somehow this literally vital step always has less money. They also have the opportunity to change direction, but they just have to vote for the LMP's amendment. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-06-12-261	Thank you, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining time frame. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I ask the rapporteur, and I do not ask, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary.
u2017-06-12-262	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The government's objective was clear with the presentation and presentation of the spring tax package: on the one hand, the revenue figures for the 2018 budget are based on the tax package and, on the other hand, the government's economic policy and fiscal policy that the government has consistently been pursuing since 2010. What's the point? On the one hand, a further reduction of public burdens and tax burdens. On the other hand, the administration, the reduction of bureaucracy in the area of taxation, the less energy and resources that taxpayers, the private people, have to deal with their tax obligations. Thirdly, further expansion and enlargement of the fight against the black economy. That's basically what the package of laws itself contains. I would like to thank Mr Erik Bánki for presenting this in this brief debate. Allow me to talk about the amendments tabled to the bill after its submission. The proposal for a VAT reduction should be highlighted here, since the VAT on pig offal will be reduced to 5 per cent from 1 January 2018. This will mean that the purchase of liver, kidney, marrow and language is now, unfortunately, 27 percent VAT, but this will also be reduced from 2018. [[18.40]] It is an important change, and I say it as a positive change, unlike the LMP representative, that the corporate tax relief for visual team sports will be extended, and indeed it can be described from the bank tax in the future. But what I have to say is that this concerns banks who, by the way, cannot fulfil this option from their corporate tax. They can't do it because their foreign exchange loan responsibilities have taken their profits and therefore have no obligation to pay corporate tax, but they also want to contribute to the financing of this social community goal. Several facilitations are included by the proposed amendments, such as tax changes, leasing companies or leasing buyers, or the completion of the farmers' tax exemption in the event of the acquisition of assets by the removal of land use, and there is no need to pay a levy. The Tax Act also contains a number of changes that enhance the toolbox for combating the black economy. For example, bank accounts opened abroad for companies registered in Hungary will be subject to notification in the future. We've talked about regulation of vending machines for food and drink. Here, a so-called asylum surveillance service provider can be designated by the government decree. This means that the government's objectives of including food and beverage vending machines directly with the tax authority will be achieved by the appointment of a so-called asylum supervisory service provider. I would also like to mention the introduction of an electronic account system. This was also decided by the Government, its deadline is scheduled for 1 July 2018, and is included in the Government Decision. Accordingly, the introduction and tightening of the so-called online account reporting obligation will also be amended to 1 July 2018. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that, together with the amendments tabled by the Legislative Committee, you support the bill during the vote tomorrow. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-263	Thank you, Mr András Tállai State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the transparency of organisations supported from abroad and the debate on the draft amending proposal. T/14967 submitted by representatives of Gergely Gulyás, Lajos Kósa, István Németh Szilárd, István Vitányi and Róbert Répássy The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as a matter of nationality and EU agenda. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Róbert Répássy, rapporteur of the committee, within a maximum of eight minutes' time frame.
u2017-06-12-264	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is the House Rules 46. T/14967 on the transparency of organisations supported from abroad has been discussed under Section T 144967 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Committee adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 24 votes in favour, 6 against and 1 abstention. The summarised amendment includes the motion of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, on the one hand, and the initiative of the Legislative Committee, on the other, which was now able to be submitted by the Committee in the light of the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Advisory Council of the Council of Europe, the Venice Commission. The commission's motion would extend the scope of organisations not covered by the law to include minority organisations. I am convinced that it is only right that the full membership of Parliament may vote separately to accept this request. There will therefore be a separate vote on this motion. The purpose of the Legislative Committee's own amendment is, on the one hand, to avoid having to disclose the personal data of supporters below HUF 500 000 per sponsor in a tax year to the organisation supported from abroad, and therefore supporters below this limit will not be mentioned by name in the report. However, the amendment leaves the possibility of cancellation as a separate autonomous sanction under this Act. Furthermore, the purpose of the amendment is to ensure that the exclusion from organisations supported from abroad can be achieved even if the entity does not reach the threshold for entry into the scope of this Act in two consecutive tax years, in any of the tax years. The Venetian Commission's preliminary opinion, which has already been cited, also considers the intention of the author of the bill as a legitimate objective, namely to create transparency in the case of foreign support for civil society organisations. I need your support for this. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-265	Thank you very much, Congressman Répássy Róbert. The minority opinion would now be presented, but Gergely Bárándy is not in the room. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy.
u2017-06-12-266	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I asked for the floor because, as I said earlier, the opinion of experts from the so-called Venice Commission was already known at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, which was published as a preliminary opinion, but officially published this preliminary opinion on the Venice Commission's website, which means that in a few days' time the Venice Commission's plenary session could discuss and even accept this preliminary opinion. The opinion contains a very large number of points. I would like to draw your attention to the findings set out in point 62, which clearly regards transparency as a legitimate objective, namely the transparency of social organisations and civil society organisations, and, in the alternative, also regards the disclosure of aid as a legitimate objective in the fight against money laundering and terrorism. A number of criticisms were expressed in the preliminary opinion of the Venice Commission. These criticisms have been followed by the authors and, as I have just explained, the amendment of the Legislative Committee already contains proposals for amendments based on the criticisms of the preliminary opinion of the Venice Commission. The amendment concerning both the amount of aid and the possible cancellation as a sanction is therefore in accordance with the opinion of the Venice Commission. So now the proposal is in line with European standards, as the opinion of the Venice Commission puts it. The European standards therefore meet the objective of making it clear that the support of civil society organisations abroad is being promoted. This is therefore not unconstitutional, it is not contrary to European or domestic legislation. I thought it was only important to say this because from the beginning of the debate, the legislators considered the proposal's intention, the reasons for the proposal to be contrary to the law and to the European ideals. Thus, criticism of the proposal was used which the Venice Commission, I stress, did not consider to be justified by the Constitutional Law Expert Body of the Council of Europe in many cases. [[18.50]] Therefore, the many criticisms that the author of the proposal was exposed to are not the test of truth, especially the criticism that would have found the wording of the proposal to be contrary to the rule of law, to European principles. And in particular, it does not hold up that this is some kind of Russian pattern, because if it were, the Venice Commission would not have accepted the reasons for the proposal, the objectives of the proposal. So, if this criticism could have been confirmed in the opinion of the Venice Commission, then, obviously, these Hungarian counter-opinions could have remained stronger, but I must say that there was rather a turnaround in the legal judgment of the bill, I stress: its legal judgement. The legal judgement of the bill is completely separate from the hystericalism that has emerged against the proposal. Moreover, in its opinion, the Venice Commission draws attention to the fact that the proposal has managed to avoid the mistake of stigmatizing civil society organisations, which are supported from abroad. I think this is only important because a year ago, Jobbik's Member of Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, submitted a proposal for a parliamentary decision in which they believe that the organisation receiving such support should have been declared a foreign agent organisation. At the time, this was not supported by the majority of governments, and it was not supported by the proposal specifically because of its stigmatisation, but the majority of governments agreed with transparency all along. Well, the proposal thus meets the aspects of transparency after the amendment; it is in line with the legal aspects that the Venice Commission called for in the bill. Therefore, on behalf of the authors, I recommend it to your attention and to your adoption without concern. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-12-267	I thank the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to inform you that at the end of the debate you will have 4 minutes 28 seconds to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, I ask whether the Secretary of State wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I now give the floor to the Slovenian ethnic advocate Erika Kissné Köles, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, in a six-minute time frame.
u2017-06-12-268	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Spoštovani Predsednik, spoštovane gospe Poslanke in gospodje Poslanci, cenjeni Zbor! Mr President, Congressman Ladies and Congressman Lords! Dear House, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary by the Government of Hungary T/14967. He discussed the legislative proposal submitted as a minority item. The members of the committee have expressed their views in the detailed debate, as today many national minority organisations, associations and foundations receive support for their activities in Hungary, mainly in the mother country, whose annual level may be up to the limit set in the bill. For this reason, our committee was also sought by national minority authorities and civil society organisations, requesting that the legal scope of the new law not be extended to national minority organisations. At its meeting on 25 April 2017, the Committee held a detailed debate on the bill, during which it expressed an intention to amend it further. The committee is the bill1. § 4 is proposed to add a new point as follows. Paragraph 4 (d) would therefore be read as follows: (d) CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. to a national minority organisation and an association under law, and to a foundation active in the protection of the interests, representation or activities directly related to the cultural autonomy of nationality, as well as to the protection of the interests of the nationalities granted under its statutes. I was pleased to hear from Congressman Répássy Róbert that this amendment was also considered eligible by the authors. The basic activities of civil society organisations and foundations of nationalities living in Hungary are exclusively for the survival of nationalities and for the preservation of the values created by nationalities. We are citizens of the country, and we are also limited to the work carried out in the interests of people belonging to nationalities, together with the majority society, while complying with the laws of the Hungarian State. Thus, our interests cannot be shaped or exercised by foreign forces in this way; they cannot use them for their own political purposes. Support for nationalities should not be suitable for money laundering, but also for money flows of opaque origin in connection with terrorist financing. It is clear that NGOs of nationalities have an important role to play in shaping public opinion, as is the fact that it is true, in particular, for nationalities with a mother country, that they also receive operating costs and other public tasks from foreign sources, funds to support the maintenance of institutions, sports associations, youth or older organisations engaged in media activities or performing public education and cultural tasks. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary requests that the ladies and gentlemen with the right to vote in Parliament agree and support the proposal of the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary. Hvala za posornost! Thank you for your attention.
u2017-06-12-269	Thank you, Mrs Kissné Köles, spokeswoman Erika. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I would like to give the floor first to the speaker, Member István Szávay, Jobbik Group.
u2017-06-12-270	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Congressman Répássy, Then let me start where you left off. We have been through this debate several times, or the various aspects of it. Now one or two new elements have come in, and I'm sure you'll have to respond to them. Allow me once again to say that the proposal by which you are trying to authenticate your own position or discredit our position was born in a different environment, and it was also a little different from what my fellow Member, Gyöngyösi, presented at the time. Since then, our position has also been shaped. But it has to be stated that when we came up with this proposal, it happened when it was just a topic of how the Joint and the former Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai were funded, specifically through an organization linked to the Hillary Clinton, which was, yes, a harsh, open and clear foreign intervention in Hungarian political life. If that was the only problem for you to have wanted to qualify for this proposal, but you agreed with it even then, it would have been safe to support it, Mr Répássy. You didn't support it because you didn't, but you thought otherwise of this question at the time. So in this case, it's not our credibility or our consistency that we need to start, I think, but rather yours. There was a lot to talk about, and then let us say a few words about what this proposal would have been suitable for; what would have been the opportunity to look at the issue of civil society organisations, to make important amendments to civil society organisations or to make a legislative amendment that you have not done. They've been touching the civil law for many times now. We accepted the new one at the end of 2012, if I remember correctly. It's been a few years. If you really needed the views of civil society organisations and the good functioning of the CCSD and not just filled with hundreds of millions to put Jobbik and the opposition out of business, then you could have heard the voice of civilians about what was needed in the context of a comprehensive amendment to a civil law. One element of this could otherwise have been the strengthening of transparency, and this should be an important element, but not only for financing from abroad, but also for domestic financing. [[19.00]] But this is not what you were interested in; you are interested in cheap political gain, alarming, maintaining the image of the enemy, because you are trying to make political capital out of this sense of intimidation, which has been virtually for months now - months? - for more than a long time there has been a war situation in Hungary, and you need to maintain this war situation, and to do so you need an enemy image; these are the civilians, who are financed from abroad, no matter how and for what purpose. By the way, it is immensely irresponsible for you that the word "civic" itself has been discredited, in the eyes of many of our less-informed fellow citizens, the word "civic" now means something evil, foreign, traitorous, I do not know what organization the vast majority of the nearly 60,000 NGOs operating in Hungary do not do such work, in fact do not do any political work at all, but, let's say, preserve traditions, help homeless people, operate citera orchestras, go to motorcycle clubs, and [[Schmuck Erzsébet: Protecting the Environment!]] He deals with environmental protection and social welfare - and I don't want to mention it. I can see exactly what feedback is like, what angry fidesz people are commenting on on Facebook, everywhere. Civil society organisations, for many, appear as enemies thanks to your unscrupulous government propaganda, and we are not talking about, nor are we dealing with, in Parliament, how we are helping the civil society sector in Hungary to operate, for example, by creating a more normal, civil-friendly legislative environment, by not allowing the courts to disable civil society organisations by keeping the dates or deadlines set by law, or, for example, by not taking away billions of forints from civilians, which they have received in connection with offering 1 percent of taxes, and, in general, by not giving half as much money to the civil sphere, dear fellow Members, as the left-wing governments did in the past. It's the shame of a right-wing, conservative, civilian government, I think. So these issues could have been addressed. You have taken out one question, which may be important in itself, but this is also treated in a false way, and this is a matter of transparency. Our main criticism of the proposal was that this transparency is reflected in organisations that also influence politics... - because there are also civil society organisations, and now I want to ride again not only on the CÖF, but those organisations that operate in Hungary that deal directly with politics are manifesting themselves in public matters, I think it doesn't matter who they are and on what basis they are financed. With a vague background, not only is it possible to finance an organization from abroad, or to use them for some purpose, but it can also be done from the home country, and many do so. You were not interested in this, but said that this issue should not be dealt with because it has been resolved, because it is transparent, and now we only need to look at the issue of foreign financing. The extent to which this question has been resolved and how transparent it is, you know exactly how well this MVM Zrt can be seen. 508 million HUF of COF support. This is what we have been talking about in the House today: MVM Zrt. In December 2016, László Csizmadia gave 508 million forints to a fake NGO, led by Csizmadia László, when the Civil Alliance Forum - to this day, no one knows how much money - settled the country with Gábor Vona, Ferenc Gyurcsány and a clown. This money, in our view, or the amount of this poster campaign, is, in our view - and is confirmed by secrecy - made out of public money, the money of the MVM. The MVM then starts keeping secrets and talks about the fact that the info law does not apply to it because it generated the subsidy amount on its own income. This case best shows, Mr Répássy, how not okay, how not transparent the funding of an organisation in Hungary that deals with politics that wants to influence political life. Of course, you are still not willing to deal with this matter. This is one of the most important points that we will otherwise abstain from negotiating this proposal. And the other thing is, they're gonna leave a loophole in it that should've been closed. I am very happy about that, and we ourselves have suggested it, and we have drawn attention to the danger of leaving national minority organisations in it, because this may be a bad precedent in favour of, or in connection with, taking action with Hungarian organisations across the border - this has happened. This kind of irresponsibleness can already be seen, it can be seen in the Highlands, and it can also be seen in Romania, where, in both places, they wish to present a similar law, which they can use against Hungarian organizations there, but this price was not expensive for you in order to create a good domestic atmosphere. But at least we have come to the point where this has been considered, and this has been taken out of it, and we welcome it, as well as the reduction of the register from three years to one year. However, there are two very important points left in it, which, if you are willing to think about by tomorrow, we can also consider our current position as a abstention. One is the treatment of sports and ecclesiastical organizations as an exception. I think that it is possible to carry out Hungary's offensive activity, which wants to influence Hungarian politics, hiding behind them, and we do not see the reason, but we can only guess why they would like to leave these organisations out of this. And the other thing I just said is that it's a question of domestic funding. Now I'm not even talking about how the proposal leaves a lot of loopholes in itself. If György Soros - because then let's talk about György Soros, because this is your obsession to make it easier for György Soros to establish a foundation in Hungary and to influence politics through it, then this law does not apply. Or if George Soros gives it to a stroman organization, say, I don't know, a billion dollars or x billion forints, and that organization distributes it in Hungary, then the funds received from this organization do not need to be shown by the other organizations. I therefore believe that this proposal is not entirely professionally correct, at least it is not in the service of what you would have wanted on this matter. So we believe that this is a clear [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] a politically motivated proposal, not responding to real problems and not addressing the issue in its entirety, therefore we abstain (the president bell rings). But I would ask you to reconsider my two amendments. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-12-271	Thank you very much, Congressman István Szávay. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP.
u2017-06-12-272	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Despite some of the small positive changes made by the summary amendment, the most important problem with the proposal is, of course, still the point of all this beyond the undifferentiated stigma of the rule of law that cannot be justified as a rule of law. The proposal before the final vote does not help transparency at all, and the proposal does not even make the individual foreign aid data otherwise notified to the court public. But even if you did, you wouldn't know as much about the communication as you do at the moment from the annual CSO reports - if an organisation, like the CÖF, is doing it all right. According to the LMP, it is a prerequisite for any new public regulation to include entities receiving State aid, i.e. domestic money. It is a constitutionally acceptable objective to ensure the transparency of the support of civil society organisations, but only if it is implemented together with the publicity of all organisations that receive public funds from public companies and party foundations in whatever title, not only on direct State aid, but also on the millions received from the CÖF Fidesz Party Foundation or MVM, for example. The bill, on the other hand, is an inadequate, unnecessary and disproportionate regulatory attempt along daily political interests, starting with the need to fear the independence of this country not by civilians, but by Russian agents who are sitting here with us in Parliament right now. [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] And who are Paks II. They're working to build it against the obvious will of the people. You are, in line with the logic of your proposal, a foreign-funded government, but worse still, a foreign-funded government, which, in the framework of pointless and unsustainable investment and credit schemes, is seriously irresponsiblely indebting the country to millions of people. Before you come up with the interests of anyone else in this country, please clarify who you are to press the button in the Hungarian Parliament. And one more thing: the publicity of grants can only be imagined in conjunction with the restriction of covert party campaigns. In your national cooperation system, cooperation means that organisations that lie to civil society will be able to top the covert party campaign. [[19.10]] In step zero, it should therefore be prohibited, instead of blacklisting real civilians who do extremely valuable work, to allow organisations that are enriched by our tax forints and disguised as civilians to engage in coordinated political campaign activities with the government parties. The LMP would be a partner of the government, but the unjustified and discriminatory resolution of civil society organisations will be rejected in the strongest possible way.
u2017-06-12-273	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to the rapporteur, who clearly wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have four minutes and 28 seconds, Congressman.
u2017-06-12-274	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First, I would like to say to Mrs Schmuck here, to her last sentences, that we have heard quite a strange logic from you about the labelling of civil society organisations in terms of whether they agree with the government or with the opposition. That's pretty much what you said, but I'm almost quoting the fact that anyone who agrees with the opposition is an independent NGO who agrees with the government, and that's some kind of fake NGO. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Sebestyén Vigó speak loudly to each other. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2017-06-12-275	Congressman, a little quieter.
u2017-06-12-276	So I think you have a bit of a stand-up opinion, and you have a stand-up assessment, when you say that anyone who agrees with the government must be a propagandaist of the government, and that the NGO that agrees with the opposition, and what's more, is organizing anti-government protests, is clearly independent and doing valuable civilian work. In my opinion, this world is not so complicated, it doesn't matter who has what it says on it, what legal category it hides its activities under, in fact, there are clearly opposition and pro-government organisations for the assessment of the government's activities. [[István Szávay: This is your logic.]] It is not worth it separately, and I stress once again that it is not worth maintaining the category of organisations that organise anti-government protests; they are also participants in political life, but operate in a different legal form. By the way, it is an excellent example of this, such as the Momentum movement, which organized a great demonstration and then became a party the next day. So it is clear that there are political organisations that start their operations as civil society organisations and then form a party. Perhaps even the parties sitting here may remember some of the organizations that first started as a movement and then registered themselves as a party. So there's such a thing. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Lungo Drom.]] there is one, except, of course, the MSZP, which was formed by the party of state. So the Hungarian Socialist Party is the only party born in the dictatorship and formed from the dictatorship, all the other parties as civil initiatives. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: More people sit in your benches than we do. The president's ringing the bell.]] For example, President Lezsák is also present, and if someone remembers the foundation of the Hungarian Democratic Forum, it was created from a civil society organisation, it was formed from several civil society organisations, and it was once subject to party law. So it is not such a complicated world, so these political organisations begin to act as civilians and then as political actors; moreover, the rule in Hungary is that civil society organisations can participate in municipal elections, such as the candidate for mayor of Budapest. So the Hungarian electoral system is much more acceptable to civil society organisations than the civil laws of other countries. Dear House, Thank you very much for the opinion of all those who have spoken to the bill, and not for what is not in the bill, because we have also heard such lectures and opinions. And anyone who actually examines this bill with a legal assessment and compares it with, for example, the aforementioned Commission preliminary opinion in Venice, cannot say that this bill is not intended for a rule of law. This bill in its entirety, I am convinced that it will pass a constitutional or even a subsequent human rights test; it is our job, of course, to choose the right means for the right purpose. In my view, the amendments contain these right instruments. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-277	Thank you very much, Congressman Répássy Róbert. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, There is a debate on the Commission's reports for the submission of criminal proceedings and the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/13972. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-06-12-278	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is the House Rule 46. On 11 May 2017, pursuant to §2 of the Act on Criminal Procedure, T/13972. The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 20 votes in favour, with 9 abstentions, without voting against. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, a motion to close a detailed debate by the Judicial Committee and an initiative of the Legislative Committee, which also partially clarifies the committee's proposals for amendment. Among the amendments, I would like to highlight Gábor Staudt and Csaba Gyüre better Members T/13972/23. The worthy objective of Amendment No 1 of the proposal for an amendment is to be recognised. According to the billing committee's motion, pre-emption can preferably be practiced between 7 and 22 hours instead of 6 and 24 hours, according to the bill. Since the provision is an exception rule, its minor amendment is without prejudice to the interest of criminal proceedings, it is more reasonable to establish the interval between 6 and 22 hours in order to be consistent with the other provisions of the bill. It is also important to point out that Congresswoman Bernadett Szél LMP T/13972/11. The aim of the amendment was also to ensure that, in the event of the imposition of a derogation in other cases, the case could only be terminated if it concerned the same victim. The aided amendment is set out in T/13972/11. It is in line with the content of the Amendment No 1 amendment and is also adapted to the new set of conditions for detention and criminal supervision, because it does not only mention the victim and it is clear, as opposed to T/13972/11. Amendment 3 not only the special rule in the case of detention. The amendment is also justified in the sense that the case of the termination of a compulsory measure on personal leave because the defendant is being detained in another case, in the case where a similar coercive measure is imposed in respect of the defendant under detention or criminal supervision, i.e. that is to say, he is free of substance. The hopeful adoption of the bill was preceded by long professional consultation and timely interparty consultation, where opposition factions also showed constructive cooperation. So we have all the hope that the XXI. Let us be richer with a new Code of Criminal Procedure that meets the requirements of the 20th century. I need your support. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-279	Thank you, Congressman Répássy Róbert. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] I guess it'll be the end then. [[Dr. Pál Völner: In the end.]] Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I give the floor to Serbian ethnic advocate Alexov Lyubomir, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. You have the floor. [[19.20]]
u2017-06-12-280	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities is the 44-45 House Rule. It held a detailed discussion of the bill on the basis of Article 5 of the Act. The Committee welcomed the fact that the provision of the use of mother tongue is already included in the bill as a matter of principle and that the general rules on the exercise of the law of persons involved in criminal proceedings set out in Article 78. It also regulates the detailed terms and conditions of language use. The proposal also specifically highlights nationalities in the use of languages when it provides that members of the nationalities living in Hungary, recognised by law, are entitled to the right to use the mother tongue of nationality. We consider it a step forward that, among the detailed rules, the bill highlights the need to provide an interpreter with adequate knowledge of the legal language to those who use their mother tongue. We hope that this will not only be a matter of principle, but also in practice the use of an interpreter with an adequate knowledge of the legal language will be ensured in all cases. We believe that, in the case of judicial, municipal and other authorities, the willingness to accept and use nationality languages in administrative matters must be strengthened and encouraged, and that the ability to use nationality languages must also be created. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary considers that the T/13972. The provisions of the bill on the use of nationality language on the rights of nationalities, CLXXIX, 2011 Act 5. § 1 is in line with the provisions of paragraph 1 concerning the use of mother tongue, and the bill also takes into account the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages ratified in 1999. T/13972. The draft law on criminal proceedings introduces a new legal institution with its provisions on conditional data disclosure, allowing the prosecution or the prosecution to request data from specific data management bodies, such as the local government body, acting in the preparatory proceedings, with the permission of the investigating authority and the police, in the event of the occurrence of a future condition. The practical implementation of conditional communication is therefore not yet exactly seen, but it is reassuring to us that the proposal is 266. According to the rule of paragraph 6 of Section 6 of the Act, it is also possible for the requested national minority self-government or its body to provide an obstacle to the performance of conditional communication of data, or, where appropriate, by cooperating with the authority which conducted the criminal proceedings, the bodies of the national minority self-governments may carry out such requests. Overall, it can be said that T/13972. The bill on criminal proceedings is set out in Article XXIX of the Fundamental Law. It settles the issue of the legitimate exercise of domestic nationalities in accordance with Article 4 of the Act on the Rights of Nationalities and the obligation to use language rights in accordance with the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages. The committee for the bill is the house rule 32. Having examined the provisions of its notification pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 44 of the House Rules, it concluded that they were in conformity with the rules of the House. The requirements set out in paragraph 1 of this Article shall also apply. The Committee did not comment on any amendments or any further amendments, and the Committee therefore did not submit an amendment closing the detailed discussion. The committee discussed the detailed discussion of the bill 2017. CHAPTER III closed on the 28th of the month. On this basis, the committee proposes that the bill be adopted by the Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-12-281	Thank you for Alexov Lyubomir's voice as a ethnic advocate. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak if there is a candidate. [[No one's reporting.]] But I don't see a candidate. So, Honourable Parliament, the debate is closed. I am now giving the floor to the author, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-12-282	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, This House has discussed the bill, which, placing criminal proceedings on a new footing, creates a legal framework for a reasonable, fair, effective and rapid criminal prosecution, subject to the requirement of a fair procedure. It has a number of innovations and forward-looking solutions that meet these goals. This is also confirmed by the recognition and support of the professional aspirations of the bill in the course of the debate in addition to the ruling parties. The professional nature of the draft law on new criminal proceedings was assessed not only by political parties, but also by professional orders and civil society organisations. Both MSZP and Jobbik considered the direction represented by the bill eligible. The Hungarian Bar Association has already stressed at the administrative consultation that they agree with the main aspects of the reform of criminal proceedings. It should be pointed out that the proposal of the Hungarian Bar Association was the basis for the new system of protective secondment. According to the National Court Office, the new bill on criminal proceedings laid the foundations for a modern, effective criminal procedure, which is also consistent with the Fundamental Law and the obligation entered into by international conventions. The Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office has contributed to the development of new rules on criminal proceedings with a number of substantive proposals from the time of administrative consultation. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights expressed the view that the draft would undoubtedly seek to establish legislation in criminal proceedings in a progressive, international and EU-wide way. In addition to the opinions expressed in general terms, it can also be said that the bill has received support in certain details. It is worth pointing out here that civil society organisations welcomed the new law on criminal proceedings in the course of social consultation, and considered it an extremely important and positive innovation that the choice of a protector was separate from the authority that conducted the proceedings. In their view, it is an important change in line with EU law that, as a general rule, the knowledge of case files is replaced by the principle of full knowledge, and the split system of compensation for unjustified restrictions on freedom, as well as the simplified indemnification procedure, has been welcomed. It was assessed as positive that it would be possible to use the telecommunications device at any stage of the procedure. A significant step forward has been considered to strengthen the purpose of training in criminal proceedings against minors. They also supported the new legislation on persons requiring special treatment. It has been an important step forward that the bill extends its scope to collect classified information and thus completes judicial and prosecutorial control in this area. Dear House, From the administrative consultation to the five-party consultation, up to the work of the parliamentary committees, it was noticeable that the parties were constructively involved in the legislative work and supported the legislative process with substantive proposals. I'd like to thank you for that. In the course of the debate, the government has taken a positive stance on any proposal aimed at improving the proposal without breaking the funds. I would like to point out that there have been a number of individual Members' motions which we have agreed with their fundamental aim and whose concrete solutions have been slightly adapted to form part of the new Code in the form of legislative Commission amendments at the government's initiative. For example, the MSZP's proposal to ensure that the investigating judge is able to obtain any information that gives rise to suspicion or otherwise is necessary to examine the specific conditions of the coercive measure in order to decide on the arrest. This therefore supports a more informed decision by the investigating judge. In the interests of victims, the government supports Jobbik's proposal that the jurisdiction of the court may also be established on the basis of the place of residence of the victim, for whom it is a real relief if the proceedings can take place before the court responsible for the place of residence. It was the focus of Jobbik's victim's efforts to satisfy the victim's burdened assets before the state itself with its need for criminal costs. [[19.30]] Therefore, the Government's text in line with Jobbik's proposal is set out in T/15054. He submitted it to the Parliament with a bill No. Jobbik has proposed the wording of the law so that the burdened person is directly informed of the termination of the investigation by indictment. As my fellow Member Répássy mentioned, the rules for forwarding have also been amended during the night hours. The Legislative Committee also supported Jobbik's initiative not to impose a fine on the defender if the circumstances effectively hindering his compulsory presence were subsequently announced. We have accepted Mrs Bernadett Szél's proposal that the arrangement of retention in another matter should only create a title for the removal of the emergency measure in the case of the same victim. This will further strengthen the sense of security and protection of victims. Dear Parliament, The Government accepted comments submitted and eligible by the factions during the technical debate on the bill. In comparison, some of the opposition's corrective proposals were rejected only in cases where, in our view, it was a technical obstacle that the new law on criminal proceedings had already originally ensured the aim of the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, The prepared bill is suitable to replace the current law on criminal proceedings. During the general debate, I express my hope that the support of the parties will remain in the vote. Now, since the opposition could not maintain an essential sense of lack of legislation, I hope and trust that the new law on criminal proceedings will be adopted by Parliament. I consider it particularly important that, together with the bill, the bill amending the sectoral rules for the essentially related collection of confidential information is before the House, and it is necessary to support it, together with the adoption of the new law on criminal proceedings, because the system will be operational. In voting, I ask you to bear in mind that Parliament not only gives an opinion on the government's bill, but also on the new rules on criminal proceedings supported by a wide range of professions and society. Anyone who supports the proposal obviously also supports the proposals of professional organisations. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-06-12-283	Thank you, Secretary of State, Pál Völner. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, the Commission's reports on the amendment of the rules for the collection of confidential information in connection with the new law on criminal proceedings and the provisions on the order in which civil rights claims are satisfied to the victim during judicial enforcement and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal follow. The government referral is T/15054. a serial number and the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-06-12-284	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 25 May 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of the rules on the collection of confidential information in relation to the new criminal law law and the provisions on the order in which civil rights claims are met for the victim in the course of judicial enforcement. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. Under Article 26 of the Rules of Procedure, he supported him by 26 votes in favour, 6 against and without abstentions. The rapporteur stated that the information on the amendment closing the in-depth debate was presented orally at the Committee on Legislative Affairs, which was a technical amendment and which was not contested by the members of the Committee. To sum up, the proposal aims to renew the rules for the collection of classified information in the light of changes in the content of the new Code of Criminal Procedure and to provide victims of criminal offences with a better position in the implementation of the civil rights requirements granted, in order to better enforce such needs. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the new rules is to develop legislation that leads to a more precise procedure by reviewing the legislation currently in conflict, which is also characterised by legal uncertainty in the application of the law. I would ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-06-12-285	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I will ask the author whether he wishes to speak now or later. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Later.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated judicial committee. The speeches will now be held by the Members, if there is a candidate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary.
u2017-06-12-286	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We are asking my fellow Members for the adoption of a bill amending the rules on the collection of confidential information relating to the new law on criminal proceedings and the order in which civil rights claims are satisfied to the victim during judicial enforcement because, as I mentioned in the closing of criminal proceedings, the two legislative proposals are integrally linked, since the rules will be transferred from here to the law on criminal proceedings, and without this law being settled, coherence would not be ensured between the legislative proposals. It is anticipating that these rules will be placed under judicial and prosecutorial supervision in the context of criminal proceedings, and in this amendment we will be able to deal with the better proposal for an amendment to satisfy the victims. I therefore call for the support of my fellow Members, and thank you for your attitude in the debate that has been held so far. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-06-12-287	Thank you, Secretary of State, Pál Völner. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on preventing and securing transparent campaign funding and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. T/15329, submitted by MEPs János Halász, Lajos Kósa, Répássy Róbert and Imre Vas fideszes The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr Répássy, rapporteur of the committee, in a time frame of up to eight minutes.
u2017-06-12-288	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is the House Rules 46. T/15329 on the prevention of covert party financing and the provision of transparent campaign financing The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report containing 21 votes in favour, 9 votes against and no abstentions. The summary amendment includes, on the one hand, Dr. Ákos Hadházy LMP representative T/15329/5. The adoption of Amendment 3 and of the Judicial Committee's proposal with technical specifications and with guarantee provisions ensuring the effect and enforceability of Dr. Ákos Hadházy's representatives. It also clarifies the amendments to the electoral procedure, the concept of political poster, the concept of advertising and the provisions on the placement of the political poster. [[19.40]] It details the terms and conditions of the placement, such as the declaration of acceptance of the price list, the system of distribution of advertising places, the range of users, in line with the electoral rules. In addition to what has been said, the Legislative Committee states that government agencies have the power to control the illegal placement of political posters. The National Media and Infocommunications Authority shall act as an expert on the issues. The amendment also regulates the authority's powers and sanctions in the event of an infringement. The proposal submitted, fulfilling its original objective, prevents attempts to gain influence in the case of parties and increases transparency. In addition, it ensures that some parties do not become obligated to businesses financing their electoral campaigns in a corrupt way. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Wow!]] We are convinced that the objectives expressed and equal opportunities between the parties can be achieved even more fully with the proposed amendments. That is why I am asking for the support of the proposal. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-12-289	Thank you very much, Congressman Répássy Róbert. The minority opinion will now be presented within a seven-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure.
u2017-06-12-290	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary does not support the bill, and there was no opposition politician and faction at the meeting of the Legislative Committee to support it. Not because we would not support transparency in party financing. I think that not only the Jobbik, but also the other opposition parties, are committed to ensuring transparency in party financing so that the budget can be made public. After all, the parties also manage and spend public money on this. Transparency is therefore absolutely important. But we also need to see if we look at elections in 2014, 2010 or before that there are certain parties that have never managed from the budget required by the legislation, but above it; not 50 per cent, more than 80 per cent, but 300 per cent, more than 3000 per cent, or 30 per 50 million forints per constituency. And if the author speaks of the need to ensure equal opportunities for parties, can this be guaranteed by this law? Well, the Fidesz-KDNP has proved that it does not accept and acknowledge the germ of equal opportunities, and if the odds begin to settle, it will work with every means to avoid equal opportunities, so that the Fidesz-KDNP does not have a huge chance of starting the elections. I mean, we've seen him say, "Yeah, rent the posters for the same money." What kind of money? Because we have seen that the last three years have shown very nicely what kind of public funds are being used for purposes that serve only and exclusively the party policy interests of Fidesz-KDNP. For example, in order not to go too far, the poster campaign of CÖF, in which Fidesz and KDNP do not really appear, yes, but CÖF built its poster campaign in Hungary from HUF 500 million. Where did you get this 500 million forint? Well, that's what everyone was looking for. Where did you get this 500 million forint? Then it turned out that it was MVM, which, as a public body, gave this HUF 500 million to the CF instead of revenue from the state budget to carry out this poster campaign. But since then, we have heard that Fidesz has also given HUF 48 million to COF for any purpose. Fidesz giving out his own party money is another question. But what you're taking from the state budget, which you're taking public money to use for party policy purposes, where does that guarantee equal opportunities? We see that it is the Fidesz-KDNP that does not give any equal opportunities at all, does not want to fight evenly with any party, but says that children, you come with a horse, I will go against you in a chariot, and then we will fight our battle. And if he's already got two horses on the other side, shall we say I only have one tank and you have two horses? Well, we're gonna shoot that one horse, and you're gonna have to come face to face with it. Well, that's about the level we've come to. This bill is also about not giving people a chance, and I will pay for it with public money. I would be very curious to know when the Hungarian Electricity Works for Jobbik Hungary will hold a poster campaign for the Movement for Jobbik Hungary or a fake NGO of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, if it were, as is the CÖF as a pseudo-civil organization, which is practically party propaganda for Fidesz, if such an organization were to give us 500 million forints, because we would like to have a poster campaign, discredit Fidesz and KDNP here before the elections, let us have that little money. Well, I'm sure we won't get it. I mean, if we don't use public money for public purposes, we give it to someone for party policy purposes, there's a very serious suspicion of crime. Embezzlement, infidelity, it's no longer our job to decide. But when public money is not used for that purpose, we must speak up there, we must press charges, and we must be able to prove that this is not the way to treat public money. As long as you treat public money this way in Hungary, as long as you give yourself an undue advantage in the elections by discrediting the other parties, when the government spends billions, tens of billions to advertise itself, and against everyone else, on public money, when a state is behind a party to serve his advertising, his marketing, where do you talk about equal opportunities? ! Or about your inequities, how do they talk when billions are facing millions, which the Jobbik Hungary Movement can use? As long as there is no complete transparency, as long as it is not created to actually spend public money for the purpose of ensuring equal opportunities for other parties and not giving themselves undue benefits, such a bill cannot be adopted. If this were indeed for transparency, indeed for equal opportunities, then I think opposition parties would also vote in favour. But in the Legislative Committee, each party has made it clear that we cannot support this law in any way, we will not support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-12-291	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. I'll ask the author whether it's now or later... [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: Later.]] Later. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] No. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. First, I give the floor to the speaker who has been announced, Member István Szávay, Jobbik.
u2017-06-12-292	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Fellow Members! We have heard a lot of sounds about what is behind this proposal and what feeds this proposal. The only thing that hasn't been said is reality. This proposal is fueled by fear, fellow Members. This proposal is fueled by the fear that Fidesz will lose the next election. You and personally Viktor Orbán are deeply disturbed by the poster campaign of Jobbik, and you are deeply disturbed by the fact that there is still one surface left that in seven years you have not been able to fully tap into, which you have not been able to fully expropriate, and which you cannot fully control. And these are the public posters. By the way, by the way, the channel called the public service is unwatchable, moving at the quality of the '50s, it is primitive, demagogic, vile and lying to broadcast a single-planed, unscrupulous government propaganda in the name of public service. You can look at the few tens of thousands of viewers, and here they can only get to their most fanatical followers, by the way. But this is the case with some commercial televisions, they also shut down newspapers, they buy news portals. The public is becoming more and more narrow, more and more plurality in this country, as regards the free representation and freedom of opinion. Other information and other opinions are getting fewer and fewer, which are not represented by the governing parties, or are not conveying the explanation of the events in Hungary in the arrangement of the governing parties, in the arrangement of the government propaganda. [[19.50]] Public spaces are still like this. This is what Jobbik is now using for a poster campaign that can get to many people, which is obviously disturbing to your number. We can certainly deliver our messages to many Hungarians, and on these posters there is Viktor Orbán among others, on these posters we draw attention to the corruption that vanquishing everything, the unbridled and unscrupulous robbery that is directly linked to the Prime Minister and his circle, and we also say that these people will be accounted for, and we will replace them, together with the majority of Hungarian people. Behind this proposal, it is possible to pat down and talk about equal opportunities, which, by the way, is something incredibly unspeakable cynicism for you, that any fidesz Member is able to talk about after seven years of such governance, which is behind us, that it is important for you to have equal opportunities and equal opportunities and cooperation - that the ceiling does not fall on you, I mean it! - That's obviously not what this is about. It's about these posters bothering you. What bothers you at all is that there is an even larger surface in this country, which not only you can use and dominate 100 percent, but also the opinions of others. That is what this proposal is about, and nothing else! And now you want to regulate and ban this by law, while, by the way - and at that time, we didn't even talk about the depravity of the matter, its incredible deception - let's look at what kind of poster campaign and what dumping there has been here in the last seven years with government money and public money. I don't think there's a man on his feet who can account for the government's own advertising - and now we're just talking about public posters, not TV ads and newscasts, and all kinds of dirty media you keep alive from public funds; we know, for example, 97 percent of Ripost's advertising revenue comes from state money, which is net theft, by the way. Anyway, let's put these aside, let's just talk about the posters. The total amount of public money spent by the government on advertising itself over the last seven years could simply not be recorded. Oh, and that would be another interesting thing - if we're talking about the covered couple's funding here - who they took this money to, what entrepreneurs they were, what oligarchs near Fidesz were, who made these posters available to you for good money, and who would have to share it with, for example, a neighbor in Pasa Park, or maybe it didn't go back to the state register. After the change of regime, you were not the only ones to continue this practice, however, such accusations were raised in the case of the Socialist Party at the time, but that you put it to the top and made this kind of corruption mechanism one of the foundations of your governance, but it is certainly true. So when we talk about illegal couples financing, it would be worth looking at the last seven years to see who, what contracts, what public procurements, what decisions, whose decisions have given government orders to display government communication, and whether they have migrated from these amounts to other places. So what we are talking about here is that you want to close down another opportunity again, reduce or eliminate an area where the opposition's opinion or opinions other than what the government represents can appear, and we can convey this to the electorate. This method is typical of the third world and of such a good dictatorship, to which your Prime Minister has been keenly interested lately, for example, to say China, where it is quite possible that, under the circumstances there, this would be a normal and democratic thing; but we are still living in Hungary or in a state called Hungary. If this proposal is to be accepted by the Parliament - and I very much hope that it is not, I very much hope that all my opposition fellow Members will have the responsibility to be here on the day of the vote, and will not contribute in any way, with their absence, to the adoption of this shameful law, which is a disgrace, among other things, because it will be another step in the process of dismantling the rule of law, the dismantling of the democratic rule of law for seven years - this is practically another restriction on democratic expression and freedom of expression, which is simply unacceptable. We see what's been going on in this country for seven years: you've always been one in the system, you always cross a red line every two or three months, which we would have thought we wouldn't have made it this far. Yes, you can. We're gonna make it! There's always something! There's always something! We are about to adopt a law on how to take care of civilians and put everyone under the same roof for transparency, just so that the war situation and hysteria can be maintained in this country, because until then you do not have to govern it, because there has been no substantive government in this country for months now, and by the way, until the next elections, we cannot expect you to govern in substance and to deal with the country's problems at all, and instead we will be civilised and we will find enemies. Right now, it is in this proposal that you can oligarch and serialize or petty; sorry, I am already mixing, but you have these two main demons, the two people who have made you what you are now. By the way, George Soros was the one who started this party, and Lajos Simicska was the one who made it great and led it to the election. Viktor Orbán has turned to these people and dealt with them for various reasons, and now he is visualizing them everywhere. Now the conspiracy theories are pretty much clear, as we learned, Simicska is behind the Jobbik, Soros is behind the MSZP, but sometimes it interferes with the system, and sometimes we move from one side to the other. Then, of course, the Hungarian Times will write tomorrow that Jobbik is protecting George Soros's organisations again, only because it will abstain from adopting this proposal, which concerns foreign civilians. Obviously that is not the case, and that is not why we will abstain, and I have made this clear in the debate. Just as we are now rejecting this proposal, which we are talking about, which you are labeling as illegal party financing, and by doing so you will try to stun your own people again, we will not reject this proposal either because we have some hidden, hidden proposal, and I do not know what purpose we have, and I do not know who we have sold ourselves to, but because we simply find it unacceptable that you are trying to limit opinion and freedom of speech, so they are trying to take another opportunity from the opposition's hands to express an opinion. While it is absolutely clear - and I would like to say this here - what will happen is that you will steal another hundred million from the state register and from various state companies to stuff the CÖF and the miserable, unscrupulous civil organizations like it, and they will carry on the unscrupulous government propaganda instead of you, and then they will continue to campaign the country full of posters that are embarrassing the opposition, and you will keep secrets the same way as you are now. Because when we want to scan foreign-funded civilians, it is no longer important for you to know what the CF asked for and what they spent the HUF 508 million they received from MVM. I'll tell you! To the poster campaigns embarrassing Jobbik! If we are to accept this proposal, then this exercise will be a high point, so that every public firm will be forced to spend a hundred million dollars on the money so that these civilians can campaign and abuse the opposition instead of you. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-12-293	Thank you, Congressman Savay. I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP.
u2017-06-12-294	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP considers it important to prohibit government propaganda and to make the spending of poster campaigns transparent, but it cannot support a few of the government parties' proposals in this direction. The ban on government political posters alone does not solve the problem to be dealt with, i.e. nationalisation of paid political communication, as it would only shift government propaganda to government advertising and funding for government media. In addition, based on the wording of the summarised amendment proposal, there is no guarantee that government posters campaigns, which have been officially regarded as information campaigns, would in practice be regarded as prohibited political advertising by government agencies acting as a violation of the ban. Another problem is that not only government propaganda placement is prohibited by the pro-government proposal in any way in the case of media campaigns, but also campaigning by satellite organisations such as the CF, which continues to circumvent all campaign restrictions. There is a serious deficiency that the government's proposal would only restrict the placement of outdoor political posters, such as advertising platforms on BKV vehicles or metro stations, would not be subject to any restrictions. The total political ban on posters outside the campaign period, which applies to all individuals and private organisations beyond the parties and the government, is neither justified nor enforceable. [[20.00]] If the government office tells us on the basis of rubber rules what political content is and is not, it will necessarily lead to arbitrary application of the law and to the violation of freedom of expression. The proposals made by the LMP to remedy all of the above problems were known and considered by the governing parties, but none of them were included in the Legislative Committee's proposals. The bill, which was conceived in the Orbán-Simicska war before the final vote, is not an appropriate remedy for the serious problems of the functioning of Hungarian democracy, even if it can be supported towards it. In the future, parties' hidden and less concealed financing ways can function in exactly the same way, and in the same way, public pro-government campaigns can only rumble in different ways as they have been for 3, 7, 11 or 15 years. In order to change the situation, it is necessary to finally adopt the campaign finance reform proposed consistently by LMP since 2010 and to impose specific bans on government and other state propaganda and to make public and public corporate media spending transparent and verifiable on the basis of market data. Therefore, LMP cannot support the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[István Szávay applauds.]]
u2017-06-12-295	Thank you, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. The next speaker was Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2017-06-12-296	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I didn't want to comment, but the case has a rather bizarre picantria, and I have to say that I understand Congressman Répássy somewhere. How painful it must be for you that Lajos Simicska, who used to be the treasurer of Fidesz, became the economic director of Fidesz at the request of Viktor Orbán in 1993 and was also the president of the APEH from 1998 to 1999. Let us not forget, however, that you, still here within the walls of this Parliament, have been constantly skimming over the past few weeks or months, and Lajos Simicska has served your interests for a number of years. And now that they see something different in 2015, since G-day, the ominous, famous G-day, Lajos Simicska has been completely opposed to Fidesz, his then party family, they've been trying really hard to put things in order in the campaign market and poster market. You're sleepy, Congressman. You think no one in this country realizes what's going on and what they do every year? The reason this is false is because everyone knows that these laws are born because you are fighting with your former cashier, now you are not supported, bad news is that you know quite a lot about you, which may be incriminating enough for you, and you should be interfering somewhere right now. This is very wrong, Congressman, it is very wrong for you to form laws in this House: if anyone is our friend, then for our friend, if someone is our enemy, for our enemy. I think that in 2018, the Hungarian people will put an end to this. [[István Szávay: That's right!]] And they will rightly end it, because such legislation has not taken place in the last 27 years, which is now taking place in this House, and it must end. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-06-12-297	Thank you, Congresswoman. I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to the author, Congressman Robert Répássy.
u2017-06-12-298	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As the author of the bill, when we started the general debate, I quoted Transparency International Hungary, let us say that I do not speak several English words here; so the point is that Transparency interpreted it as an assessment of the 2014 election campaign, including a statement by Transparency or an opinion that public advertisements, discounts that may be granted by the owners of billboards, operators of billboards, should be regulated in a uniform manner or discounts should be completely prohibited, giant billboard tariffs should be made public. So, contrary to what Mr Szávay said, this bill is not actually a step towards dictatorship. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: Of course there is!]] but a proposal towards transparency and equal opportunities [[István Szávay: Jesus Christ!]] 'Cause outside the election campaign, [[István Szávay: This cynicism!]] makes the party's support system transparent, and in the election campaign, the media advertising sets out the rules of equal opportunities already in place in the media... [[Dr. Csaba Gyure laughs. István Szávay: Which media? No kidding.]] Surely you are not familiar with electoral procedural laws [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But I don't think it's that bad, and we're all gonna use it anyway. According to our electoral procedural laws, media ads must ensure equal opportunities and ensure that they are able to advertise in the media at the same time and on the same platform. [[István Szávay: The parties!]] political parties. Well, this is the level playing field that we are proposing to ensure in public advertising. So this proposal is so not from the devil that it has already been applied to media ads in the 2014 elections, and it is an existing law, in addition to the fact that Transparency believes that this should be extended to the billboard advertising market. So, contrary to what you're saying, it would actually be in your best interest. [[István Szávay: Oh, thank you so much!]] To give you just one example, your president has admitted that their current poster campaign has received a loan of HUF 150 million. Obviously, they must have calculated how they're gonna pay for this. But I'm sure it's not true what Csaba Gyüre said, that there are two horses on the other side, and one of those horses, he said he wanted to take out this bill. You don't have a horse, because it was also bought on credit, so these ads are actually financed by credit. And by the way, Jobbik has admitted that they are buying these media surfaces from Lajos Simicska's companies. [[István Szávay: Because he has such companies, that's why!]] So you don't have to make any conspiracy theory because you've admitted to buying these ads from Lajos Simicska [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: So?]] And they even took credit for it. [[Dr. László György Lukács: You didn't dare say his name on the wheel! The president's ringing the bell.]] Once again, the quotes didn't come from me. [[István Szávay: You played all the posters! The president's ringing the bell.]] They're from Jobbik.
u2017-06-12-299	Congressman, I'm gonna need a moment of your time. Go on, Congressman.
u2017-06-12-300	Thank you very much. So, as I understand it, you've been nervous about me making Jobbik's statements. Here come the Fidesz statements. [[István Szávay: I'm nervous because you're cynical!]] So according to Jobbik's statements, you're campaigning on credit right now. What I can say is that it would be a better solution than that to create equal opportunities, that all parties could participate in the election campaign in the same way. Of course, there is a chance that in the next campaign period you will take on and campaign from it, but note that this will have to be repaid. There have been parties in Parliament that have otherwise been eliminated since [[István Szávay: And you let them go!]] And he couldn't pay his debts. This party is no longer a parliamentary party. [[Cutter Sebestyén interrupts.]] Dear House, So we are convinced, the authors are convinced, that this bill would be in the interest of all parties, that no party would be at the mercy of the aid that Jobbik is currently enjoying. By the way, if they assume that the media market in Hungary is currently plural and does it really exist that the parties must go to advertising platforms, let us say, to the opposition, because they cannot find a medium, that is, of course, not true. At the moment, in my view, but I think it can be objectively established that there are three national commercial televisions, the news of which, to say the least, is a sincere admirer of the opposition's policy, because they are so much in it, and, let's say, there are two national newspapers close to the opposition, so to speak, and there are at least three commercial radios with millions of silences, millions of commercial radios, and they are in opposition hands. [[20.10]] So Gergely Gulyás, who is the author of this proposal, said that he would like to see a dictatorship where so many media serve the dissemination of information from the opposition. So you do not need the support of Lajos Simicska, I do not think it is worth risking the solvency of your party; especially because the state support of the parties depends on the results of the election. Of course, there is a risk that when Jobbik achieves greater results than it has now, it will also have greater state support - but what if it does not? Then these subsidies must be paid or more precisely: these loans must be paid. I could say we're not worried about that. We are not worried about you, but we are worried about any party that is indebted and vulnerable to some economic interest group. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] So the proposal is not to make anyone vulnerable to economic interest groups, and not to have this influence in politics. Dear House, So please support the bill [[István Szávay: What about CÖF?]] And I would very much ask you to consider the proposal. We are convinced that it is in the best interests of the Betterman to adopt this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-06-12-301	Thank you, Congressman Répássy Róbert. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposal for a lawyer's activity and the final proposal for an amendment follow up. The government referral is T/15371. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr Répássy, rapporteur of the committee, in a time frame of up to eight minutes.
u2017-06-12-302	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I apologize for the fact that you have to listen to me too much tonight, but the Legislative Committee has appointed me to present several proposals, so I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is the House Rules 46. On 8 June 2017, T/15371 discussed the activities of lawyers. The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 28 votes in favour and 11 abstentions without voting against. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, the amendment closing the detailed discussion of the Judicial Committee and the own initiative of the Legislative Committee, which partially overrides the committee's proposals. Among the clarification rules, I would like to highlight the amendment that makes it clear that the mandate of an official or member of the local government and nationality self-government as well as of an official or member of the committee set up by it should also be understood under the mandate of elected public officials. This amendment clearly provides for the possibility of enforcing, for example, the provisions of the special law on conflicts of interest governing the status of an official in respect of the local self-government representative, the non-member of the body of representatives, the mayor of a social mandate and the deputy mayor of a social mandate. Furthermore, I consider it an important change compared to the originally submitted bill that the amendment makes it clear that the employer of the Chamber Counselor and the Legal Rapporteur must declare, as a condition for membership of the Chamber or registration, that the conditions for exercising the activity of a lawyer and the conditions necessary for electronic administration have been provided, i.e. that these conditions can also be provided by the employer or the lawyer himself, in accordance with the internal circumstances. I believe that, in order to settle the functioning of lawyers, the Parliament can adopt a new code with a uniform approach to the new challenges, which can support the vast majority of the lawyer society, including the Hungarian Bar Association, which represents them. Please do the same, support the bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-303	Thank you, Congressman Répássy Róbert. The Member in charge of presenting the minority opinion is not in the Chamber. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Pál Völner, if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik.
u2017-06-12-304	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The Jobbik Movement for Hungary, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, said that we are partly pleased that some of our amendments, which we said in the general debate, that we wanted to amend, were partially heard. That is what Mr Répássy has just mentioned, which was about the fact that the amending proposal clearly states that the legal activity is compatible with the local government office. We have also said this in the general debate that we believe that we need the expertise of the local government that lawyers and other lawyers have. So I think that this is essential in the work of the local government, and this does not create a conflict of interest that would prevent this activity from being performed as a lawyer. But I would also like to mention another matter that we have considered to be fundamental in this debate, which is about where conflicts of interest have been greatly expanded by the bill. In this regard, too, we expressed our position in the general debate that we do not agree with everything relating to conflict of interest. Too much skin dictated the scope of the proposal, which can be carried out together with the activities of a lawyer. Several opposition parties have spoken in the same way, as the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, that in certain companies, a senior official may, if provided by a body, be represented by a lawyer as a member or as President. This means that either a public limited company, a closed company or an open company may be the chairman of the board of directors of the lawyer. In our view, this goes beyond what should be opened to lawyers as an activity outside of the activities of a lawyer. If we look at the previous position of the Bar Association in this regard, it was clear that they did not think of extending the law to such an area. President Bánáti, the national chairman of the Bar Association, has appeared at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, and it is part of his statement that he sees nothing wrong with that. We, for our part, believe that this is once again an element of personalised legislation that we have encountered in this case, and that there has been a serious debate in the committee on why policy should also be included in the drafts of purely professional legislation. We see this very often as the leader of the governing parties when opposition proposals are not adopted and are not included, and even where appropriate, in the technical legislative proposals, they are not adopted. On this basis, it was formed at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, and therefore there was only a partial consensus, and the Jobbik Movement for Hungary explained this position, so that I was, in effect, half of the opposition position in favour of the better position at the committee meeting. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-12-305	Thank you, Congressman Csaba Gyure. I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] It says yes. It's for the Secretary of State. [[20.20]]
u2017-06-12-306	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Only my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre mentioned the case of conflicts of interest, and I think we also informed the Members present in detail at the committee that a lawyer cannot lead an economic company in one person, so this kind of conflict of interest does not exist. It cannot be a decisive word, because if you are a member of the board in the management of a company, it is obvious that you can vote down, so this does not cause this kind of problem. And what is very fortunate is that, say, a foundation or an association, such organisations can lead, because the civil society needs the legal expertise that lawyers may be able to add. Thank you very much to my fellow Members for what has been said in this debate and for the support of the proposal.
u2017-06-12-307	Thank you, Secretary of State, Pál Völner. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2003 CXXV on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities. Law and the 2011 CXC on National Public Education. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T12366. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-06-12-308	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 8 June 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2003 CXXV on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities. Law and the 2011 CXC on National Public Education. T12366. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. OGY Decision 46. He supported him by 26 votes in favour, not without a vote and with 10 abstentions. The background paper contains a two-point technical amendment proposed by the Committee on Culture, which is not disputed by our committee. The bill was submitted for the following reasons. The European Commission found certain detailed rules of the Law on Equal Treatment and the Promotion of Equal Opportunities and the National Public Education Act to be contrary to Directive 2000/43/EC and therefore launched infringement proceedings against Hungary on 27 May 2016. The formal notice initiating the procedure expressly challenged the specific rules and the interpretation of the law based on them, and therefore the aim pursued by the bill is to resolve the conflict indicated by the European Commission, to clarify and supplement the provisions of the two laws. Ladies and gentlemen, It should be pointed out that the proposal was submitted with the support of the representatives of the historical churches, and was preceded by thorough professional work, to which I would like your support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-309	Thank you very much, Congressman Répássy Róbert. I will ask the author whether he wishes to speak now or later. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] It says it's not right now. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. I give the floor to the Slovenian ethnic advocate Erika Kissné Köles, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. You have the floor, Erika Kissné Köles, spokeswoman.
u2017-06-12-310	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Spoštovani Gospod Predsednik! Poslanke in Poslanci! Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The 2003 CXXV on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities Law and the 2011 CXC on National Public Education. T12366. The Parliament's Committee of Nationalities in Hungary asked for the connection to the trial of the legislative proposal No. We considered it important, including that the aim of the bill is to ensure that the constitutional requirement for equal treatment is also more effective in national education. Equal opportunities and equal treatment in a society do not allow anyone or any group to create obstacles to the self-execution of the human community, to the existence of a living and just existence, but also to provide opportunities that open or open to a particular person or group for the exercise of their individuality and characteristics, which is of particular importance for nationalities, as is the fact that, in a majority society, the existence without segregation is decisive for a community living in a national minority, or that, in the event of the organisation of national minority education, the requirement of equal treatment is not violated unless the organisation of education meets the following requirements under the conditions of paragraph 2 of the bill: the acquisition of knowledge under the basic curriculum is ensured at a standard that is generally valid in non-ethnic education and that nationality education meets the requirements set out in the law on the rights of nationalities. It is an objective requirement for national education to be organised in order to obtain the highest possible level of knowledge and to ensure as much as possible the right to learn as a constitutional fundamental right, subject to the constitutional requirement of equal treatment, ethnic education should be at the same average level as public education. It is acceptable in nationality public education that, on the basis of the bill, it is legal to have separate education on the basis of religious conviction or nationality if it meets all the legal requirements of religious belief education and ethnic education. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary held a detailed debate on the bill at its meeting on 8 May 2017. During the in-depth discussion, the Committee noted that no amendments had been tabled to the bill, and in the detailed discussion the Committee itself did not intend to make any further amendments. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary also considers the amendments made in the bill to be forward-looking for ethnic public education. Hvala za posornost! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-12-311	Thank you for Erika Kissné Köles speaking for Slovenian ethnicity. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik.
u2017-06-12-312	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We also expressed our position in the general debate that we cannot agree with this bill, not even because we have repeatedly explained that Hungarian legislation should not be governed from Brussels. It is the Fidesz-KDNP administration who advertises with giant posters forests to stop Brussels, only when Brussels sends a message that something needs to be done, they do so in communication, yes, stop it and do not stop it in action. What is the root cause of this debate? The fact that there was a school in Nyíregyháza, or this was one of the main reasons, was called the so-called Huszár settlement or the Gusev settlement - this Huszár colony is famous in Nyíregyháza for having practically only a Gypsy population - and as a result of the fact that only Gypsy children live there, obviously only Gypsy children were sent to the school there. The so-called rights defenders or pseudo-rights organisations did not like this very much, they said that this was a segregational education, so this institution was shut down and the children were brought to the city school with school buses. [[20.30]] Who protested that the most? Most of all, the local gypsy population protested, as children who walked 100-200-400 metres to school where they received the education they expected, and what they got used to and what they loved stopped overnight, and carried these children within five to eight kilometres of school buses. These children were in a completely different environment, there was a completely different level of education, because they were used to a certain level of education, and obviously the children in those schools were at a different level, they could not fit in properly; they were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the best. And don't let anyone else tell you, not from Brussels, and don't let law enforcement control who wants to go to which school. The possibility for the Greek Catholic Church to take over this school and restart it came to hand. The children have been taken back to this school, to the greatest pleasure of children and parents, and this bill is actually trying to eliminate this opportunity, where, I think, everyone's will has found each other - except for the so-called organisations that say that they are protecting themselves, who are paying attention to everyone but the interests of the people they want to represent. So, where appropriate, politics has gone the wrong way here. I am very sorry that the government accepts this bill in many respects, not to mention that, in the general debate, MEP Teleki said that it is impossible in certain situations where a settlement has only a Gypsy population, then obviously this does not make it a segregational education, but it is true that they cannot act, that many cannot move their children to distant schools, so it is clear that the education that only gypsy children go to this school will be realized; although it was Minister János Lázár who spoke about the problem when Brussels first raised this problem, how do they even know who the gypsies are in Brussels, so he asked this question. It will therefore be very interesting to implement this law. I do not think that Brussels should be served in this way and that Brussels needs to be met, and I do not think that this bill should be supported. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-12-313	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Sebestyén, Jobbik.
u2017-06-12-314	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to pick up where Csaba Gyüre started, and add a few things. First of all, I would like to confirm what he has said, that in words they are very able to proclaim the resistance and revolutionary government against Brussels, both the current government and the previous government, we have also seen that in many cases, in small-scale cases, they can slam on the table, they can show how hard they are, when we find similar infringement procedures, where we can see, with reason we can see that they are completely thrown away from the ground and reality, the liberal thinkers in Brussels have figured out what segregation is, and how this must be done, so that minority rights are not damaged, only - as I said - this is absolutely thrown away from reality. Many have said that there may be a lot of ground for spontaneous segregation, whether it is complete settlements - in Eastern Hungary, in North-East Hungary - that many of them are found - which are made up of an ethnic minority, it is quite difficult to achieve education that is not just for children of the Roma minority to attend the school. But this can also be observed in large cities, even in Tatabánya, where only Gypsy children come from, because there is only a Gypsy-born population in the area, and we are talking about a school in the middle of a segregation. So reality, or ground - stuck thinking, says that such an infringement procedure must be faced. On the one hand, from a reality point of view, and on the other hand, from a professional point of view, it is possible to attack such a measure, because in many cases segregation is not a devil's thing, and there may be life situations, especially in the segregations mentioned by me and others, where a well-designed, well-built and well-managed, segmented education with a good methodology, either education and methodology specialized in an ethnic minority or a national minority, could truly serve integration, truly serve as an Ascension. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right!]] And it could really serve to get beyond this segregational education, to take part in higher schools, education, even university education, so that they can become socially integrated. So I think it is time, it is not a small matter, it is an important matter, it should be thrown on the table here, and we should fight out the rights that do serve the real rise and real integration of national or ethnic minorities living in Hungary. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-12-315	Thank you, Congressman Cutter Sebestyén. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Then I give the floor to the author, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-12-316	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, This proposal before us is a purely professional proposal. There is an international legal environment that we have undertaken and must abide by. If we find a legal solution to reduce the number of disputes with Brussels, it is obvious that we do not want to see more and more conflict situations. So a typical example of this proposal is that the government, when it talks about stopping Brussels, gives it this in terms of national fate issues. [[Editor Sebestyén: Why, this is not it?! Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Like retirement of judges!? Editing Sebestyén: And the media law!]] It is a task for ourselves, because our fellow Members here on migration, for example, who are better than the fundamental law amendment, did not consider stopping Brussels to be such a task. The Union is a community to which we want to continue to belong, so that if we can work together, if we can find solutions, compromises on which this works, this example proves that we can reach an agreement on professional grounds that will ensure the future in all respects. That is why I am asking for the support of the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-06-12-317	Thank you, Secretary of State, Pál Völner. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1997 LXVIII on the service of judicial staff. Act CLXIV of 2011 on the status of the Attorney General, prosecutors and other public prosecutors and on the career of the prosecutor. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/15785. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-06-12-318	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 8 June 2017 is subject to Rule 46 of the Rules of the House. LXVIII of 1997 on the service of judicial staff Act CLXIV of 2011 on the status of the Attorney General, prosecutors and other public prosecutors and on the career of the prosecutor. T/15785. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 19 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 2 abstentions. The majority of the background material is the 43-point amendment proposed by the Judicial Committee, which the Legislative Committee's own amendment proposal overrides on a few points. The commission shall record the Lasz. And the Hollow. amending its transitional provisions on cafeteria application for 2017. The purpose of these amendments is to create a clear legal situation for the law enforcement authorities, since, in the event of the entry into force of September 2017, an obligation to repay the cafeteria benefits already established could arise, which would take away acquired rights. In addition, the regulation is fully in line with the transitional rules laid down in the relevant provisions of the Law on State Officials, which govern the similar legal situation arising from the change of legal status of government officials and public officials. Not least, the date of entry into force of the bill will be amended in view of the implementation of technical transactions. [[20.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill before us is to ensure that the judicial system retains its key employees, while at the same time stopping the emigration of judicial and non-prosecution and prosecutorial staff. That is why I am asking you to support this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-12-319	Thank you, Congressman Répássy Róbert. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Pál Völner, if he wishes to speak now. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Later.]] Later. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik.
u2017-06-12-320	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill is a fundamentally forward-looking bill in many respects. We've talked about the salaries of judges, prosecutors, attorneys and prosecutors in the budget debate several times, and it's usually on deaf ears. There is now some change, which we are partly pleased with, but unfortunately there are also problems with this bill. I myself have tabled eight amendments to this proposal, none of which have been accepted in any part. And I think that all of these would have improved this bill. What is the most important question, which is not good in this law, is exactly what my fellow Member Répássy was just talking about when he said what the purpose of the law was. The purpose of the law is to keep the workers there by means of a higher wage, to attract the career of law enforcement employees and prosecutors. And whether this bill succeeds in doing so, well, that's where we have our doubts. That is because my fellow Member, Mr Répássy, has explained that there is a wage increase. We're talking about a raise, which is true. Which is true, but what we get used to from Fidesz-KDNP: when it raises wages, it also takes away. The question is, if you draw a balance at the end, it will really be positive or negative. 'Cause what's going on here, in the case of court staff, law enforcement staff, and in the case of prosecutorial staff? What's happening is he raises the wage, and besides, he eliminates the cafeteria. On average, a worker received a cafeteria of approximately HUF 20,000 a month. It raises the salary by, say, 30,000 forints. He advertises everywhere that there is, uh, 20 percent average wage development, which is not true, because he gave 30 grand on one side, took 20 grand on the other side; and I think that in some cases it can even be negative, because there is another serious negative of this law, which is that the lower the level of education for a worker, the more this law increases his salary, which is fine. The problem is that the salary increase for higher education is lower, and in some cases it is also a problem for court secretaries and qualified prosecutors that we cannot practically talk about raising wages, and if we do not talk about raising wages, we can talk about whether their wages may be reduced. It can't be reduced, because the law says that their wages can't be reduced, but if their cafeteria is towed, these people may even take a much lower net amount from one month to the next. And these people are exactly the ones with higher education, so the odds are not so high there either. Those who, let's say, work as a clerk in a public prosecutor's office, have a higher education degree, have a much lower percentage, and are mostly raised by this bill for those without a higher education degree. This could lead to a problem where people who are not judges in justice, courts and prosecutors, or who are not prosecutors, will remain with less education, since they are best supported by this bill; it is a big problem. It is also a big problem of the bill that I drew attention to in a legislative proposal and in the general debate that it gives rise to the creation of high-profile jobs by the head of the workplace. In the priority jobs, you can pay ten times the average salary of the national economy in the previous year, which at the moment means that an employee may have a gross salary of HUF 2 million 680,000. 10 percent of employees can be excluded from the scope of the law and transferred to the labour code. He's got a place in these cases. And my fear is, on the one hand, that this will cause a very high wage tension in the organization, because when a qualified judge with decades of service recompense, who is at the top of the justice system, earns a net HUF 500 000, on the other hand, a 25-year-old employee who is, say, 20 years younger than the judge, doesn't have such a high school education, not to mention the expertise, experience and the rest, and that employee, let's say, will earn HUF 1 million 700 thousand net, up to three and a half times that judge. And if we look at it, we're talking about a court, we're talking about a prosecutor's office, so obviously prosecutors, judges, so they're the most important thing in this role, so I think that with their salary, an employee, an employee subject to the Labour Code, shouldn't earn more, or at least not that much. This will in any case bring serious wage tensions to the sector, which is certainly not a forward-looking signal. I am very sorry that those improving amendments were completely swept down at the committee meeting and have not been brought before this House. I think that, with these proposals, we could indeed have achieved the objective that my fellow Member, Mr Répássy, spoke about as rapporteur, what this bill should have achieved, how much it should have been kept, and how much it would have been necessary to keep the most valuable workforce in the area of justice. I think that the problem with this is that this will not happen, or that the proposal for a wage increase is false. I know that behind this it is clear that they do not want such a level of wage tension, because we know that since the Fidesz government has been in place, either in the period of 98-2002 or in the seven years following 2010, the salaries of judges and prosecutors have not actually been increased, or only now, at the end of this year or at the beginning of the year, a total increase of 10 percent has taken place. This means that the real value of the salaries of judges and prosecutors has decreased by 40 to a few percent over the last 10 years, while average earnings have increased in Hungary, while the wages of employees and judges and prosecutors working in justice have decreased substantially in real terms. After all, the wages of judicial staff and prosecutorial staff are also linked to the basic salary of the judge, so we can say that they cry together, laugh together. If the basic wage is raised, it will rise to everyone, if it is not raised, it will not rise to anyone if the basic salary does not change. So a realistic basic salary increase would have been more appropriate here, but we know that because the Fidesz-KDNP administration does not sympathise with judges, it does not do so, and therefore it is not possible to increase the wages of employees with higher educational qualifications, as it would exceed the salaries of judges. It was Congressman Répássy who spoke about this when he was a secretary of state, if I remember correctly, that it is not possible for court secretaries to increase their salary even more, because then he will be able to exceed his starting judicial salary, and therefore he cannot. Here is the solution, we should increase the basic salary of judges and prosecutors, as we have repeatedly submitted - the Jobbik for Hungary Movement - in budgetary amendments, by about 30%, and then everyone would pay. It is also very important that we have asked for a separate vote here to ensure that cafeteria remains in both court and prosecutor's office, because it is an important factor that we can really keep workers in the justice system, in the courts and in the prosecutor's office, and that is when the real purpose of the law would be realized. That is why I ask the Government to reconsider itself and the parliamentary majority that is currently governing and to accept the amendment that we have requested for tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[20.50]]
u2017-06-12-321	Thank you, Congressman Csaba Gyure. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to the author, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-12-322	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, spoke about the legislation itself and their amendments, which we could not accept during committee meetings. It was also mentioned in the general debate why this legislation had to be adopted. From 2017 a system of state officials was established in Hungary. The guarantee rule that had previously ensured to employees in the judicial, judicial, prosecutorial field that they could receive the same allowance as former government officials if they did not reach this level of benefit on the basis of the salary table, its legal basis ceased, the whole legislation had to be restructured and that is what we have here. The main aspect was that the former principle should apply, so they now receive about the same amount of benefits within the judicial and prosecutorial system in line with public officials, but not the same method of calculation. That is part of it, to say the new regulation, and that is why we have this proposal before us. The other, as regards the settlement of salaries, was also here in Parliament when we voted for the 5-5-5 percent increase in 2016, 2017 and 2018, so it is not true that wages in the area of justice are not rising and the government is not paying particular attention to this area. There's an agreed method to raise wages. We know that in 2016, when this started, we didn't have an 18-year budget, but look at the 5 percent in the budget proposal before us, and the judges and prosecutors will get it. I very much hope that a regulation has been put in place that is in line with the previous structure. And in the cafeteria issue, it is obvious that if necessary in order to achieve this level in comparison with public officials, it will obviously be applied; otherwise, the cafeteria can go up from zero to as long as necessary. So this is a very good tool for this guarantee element to continue to be enforced in this area. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support this proposal in the vote tomorrow, because this is how we can remedy this disorderly situation and that is how the people there can receive this extra payment. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-06-12-323	Thank you, Secretary of State, Pál Völner. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of individual laws in relation to the priority national memorial site and the debate on the summary amendment proposal. Submitted by representatives of Répássy Róbert, János Halász, L. Simon László Fidesz, T/15784. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy, who is the rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-06-12-324	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee on 8 June 2017 discussed the T/15784 amendment of certain laws in relation to a prominent national memorial site. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Parliament's resolution on certain house rules 46. It was supported by 23 votes in favour, 6 against and 2 abstentions. The Legislative Committee partially supported the Commission's proposal to close a detailed debate and adopted an amendment containing its own proposal for an amendment containing clarifications and a proposal to delete the fundamental provisions. It is important to point out that the summarised amendment clarifies the legislative reference to the public ownership of the Martyrs' Square and indicates the state task to which Nvtv refers. is granted free of charge within the meaning of paragraph 1 of this Article. It shall also designate the Office of Parliament as the trustee of the public area and the statues set up as part of the designated national memorial site. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that with the new rules and instruments it will be possible to ensure in the future the uniform, historically authentic architectural and urban appearance of the highlighted national memorial site, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-12-325	Thank you, Congressman Répássy Róbert. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] No, later, thank you; and the representative of the government will also want to comment later. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, a notary.
u2017-06-12-326	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear tableds, I tell you frankly, I went to the five-party meeting with great joy and great hope, because I thought that this subject could be something in which a meaningful consensus could be created, because it is important for all of us that the main square of the nation, which has been declared a prominent national memorial place, is the stock of the statues, in general the overall situation that determines the operation of the prominent national memorial place, must be a common cause for all of us, since it will cost the Office of Parliament to manage its assets, we must make sure that this space is truly established, reserved and used for the people of the country. But unfortunately, to tell you the truth, I don't understand the small-mindedness of the government in this matter. It has come up, and this is what one of my amendments is about, that in Annex 2 to the Law on Property, the list of assets held in national assets of high national importance, in Hungarian, the statues and works of art that stand on Kossuth Square, let us clarify this annex a little bit. After all, you expect this to be modified with two-thirds support, but I think it would be unworthy to modify it only in the sense that the flame of the revolution has vanished from the space, which has so far been the only memorial, visible, understandable, above the surface of the earth, which has captured the memory of 56. 'Cause let's face it, what the sewer tunnel has created is forcing the memory of 56 underground, so let's leave it alone. There are the Callmeyer dots at the Ministry of Agriculture building, and a living man does not understand this - it is a very significant work of art, but it does not match the spirit of. 56 - and there is a short quote from the first letter to the Corinthians on the front surface of the cascad, but it cannot be seen. [[21.00]] I suggested that we not clarify or adapt the law to life, but fulfill this law with substance. So either the flame of the revolution will be returned, or a monument reminiscent of the nation's main square, or, as we know, the monument of the National Martyrs was once standing in the area of the Martyrs, as we know at the five-party meeting. That place is already occupied, and no one wants to question this status quo, but it can be said that the monument of the national martyrs will be placed somewhere in the national main square. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] And since this was usually a memory for the victims of Bolshevism, it is safe to say that this can also be a memory for the heroes of 56. How worthy, how beautiful it would be if this monument could return to October 31, 2018, the 100th anniversary of the murder of István Tisza, when, we know, this monument was set up and set up so that his name was the first to be recorded on this huge colossus. And yes, there is a monument, a group of statues, that depicts a male figure who is overcoming the monster of Bolshevism. I think that if there is something in Hungary, then this monument would be very, very much needed, especially here in the national square. In Hungarian, my amendment would be about extending Annex 2 under the National Law of Property to include the Vérttanúk tere, name the statue of Imre Nagy, and add that the list of statues is added to the monument of the National Martyrs. I don't know why they don't support that. Honestly, I don't know what it is that needs to be rejected, which doesn't deserve a national consensus. Shouldn't I set up this monument I'm talking about? Wouldn't you say this should be here in Kossuth Square or in the immediate vicinity of Kossuth Square? I think, in a sense, this rejection is telling, but I don't think that we have to deal with it. So, of course, we will not support the two-thirds part in this form, and we will only be able to support it as I have initiated. I would like to add that I will give you another chance because I have highlighted this point specifically, so there will be a separate vote on this tomorrow. I would very much ask that, instead of narrow-mindedness, we finally have a real national minimum that we can agree on this. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-12-327	I welcome my fellow Members. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. Now, on behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Csepreghy.
u2017-06-12-328	Mr President, Honourable Members, Thank you very much for the floor. With regard to national memorial sites, I think this government has quite serious credits. When we looked at the debates that we had held before, for example, the reconstruction of Kossuth Square, they basically said nothing more than the creation of the nation's perhaps most important memorial site from the national parking lot to the nation's main square, which everyone acknowledges. I think that the government should also be open to further debates. Allow me, Congresswoman, to offer this openness here on behalf of the government. A clear architectural structure is created in Kossuth Square - or has already been created, but I say that it is created because the last building that has disappeared from the square by tearing down the headquarters of the MTESZ, which was completely body-aliened in terms of Kossuth Square, and there is a completely new building that fits into the visual image of Kossuth Square - which really makes it worthy and puts the point on the i. Then we can take action to resolve the symbolic image, and on behalf of this government I can promise you openness, as well as to all the parties in Parliament. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-06-12-329	Thank you. If there is no further intention to comment, the debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. Répássy Róbert indicates that he does not wish to comment. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The discussion of the Commission's report on the further participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international action against the Islamic State terrorist organisation follows. The government referral is H/15345. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Tamás Vargha, if he wishes to comment now. [[Tamás Vargha: Not now.]] He says he doesn't want to comment right now. I give the floor to Mátyás Firtl, rapporteur of the designated Defence and Police Committee.
u2017-06-12-330	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Defence and Police Committee shall be responsible for the implementation of Articles 10/2014 and 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure on certain house rules. Parliamentary resolution 44-45. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act, he conducted a detailed debate on the proposal for a decision on the further participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international action against the Islamic State terrorist organisation. The Committee, examining the proposal for a decision, concluded that it complied with the House Rule 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. No amendments were tabled to the proposal for a decision and no intention was expressed by the committee. The committee closed the detailed debate on the proposal for a decision on 23 May 2017. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-06-12-331	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Miklós Simon.
u2017-06-12-332	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, one of the greatest security challenges is the acts of terror committed by the fighters of the Islamic State. The organization is seeking the complete destruction of the Christian community and other minorities, and has also recruited a significant number of Western European citizens to carry out terrorist acts in the region and in the European Union. The Fidesz fraction supports the efforts to continue our participation in the fight against the Islamic State in Iraq with a larger number of people and an extended contribution until 31 December 2019. In our view, we are strengthening Iraqi-Kurd-Hungarian relations through greater military engagement, we are involved in protecting local Christians and in mitigating the root causes of the migration crisis affecting Europe, as the problem must be addressed at its source, not symptomaticly. The source is instability in the region. I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support the proposal for a resolution tabled by the Minister for Defence. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-12-333	Thank you very much. I ask my fellow Members if anyone would like to comment on the item on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to comment. It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-06-12-334	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Since 2015, since illegal immigration has appeared at the borders of Hungary and Europe, the Hungarian government has consistently said and represents its belief that instead of mandatory immigration quotas and the mandatory distribution of immigrants, we must devote our resources and financial resources to ending the problem where it came from, and thus help immigrants to live where they were born. In the spirit of this conviction, we presented to the Parliament in 2015 our proposal supported by a two-thirds majority by the Parliament, according to which Hungary will participate in the coalition against the Islamic State with its soldiers. [[21.10]] Here, too, I would like to thank the soldiers who served and performed there for the high and excellent service they have performed and perform. We ask the Parliament to support the extension of this mandate and, like coalition partners, to step up our efforts and increase the maximum quota from 150 to 200. Since the situation has changed since then in the fight against the Islamic State, the coalition is much better, so we are asking the Parliament to extend this mandate to the entire territory of Iraq. In the National Security Committee, the Defence Committee, here, before the National Assembly, and at the five-party meeting, we've told you what we're asking for permission to do. We have frankly said that we have no underlying intentions, so we ask my fellow Members to support us in voting to continue our efforts in the fight against the Islamic State. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-12-335	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 1997 XXXI on the protection of children and child care management. a debate on the Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of legislation to strengthen the system of child protection and other laws and on the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/15378. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee. I give the floor to Mr László Horváth, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-06-12-336	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee, meeting on 8 June 2017, discussed the annual XXXI on the protection of children and guardianship management. Act T/15378 on strengthening the system of child protection and amending other laws Bill No. 1. The board of the house rules 46. It submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 23 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 4 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the Commission's proposal for an amendment closing a detailed debate on the Welfare Committee, which contains a codification correction. However, the Legislative Committee did not accept proposals to tighten the criminal code. I think our common starting point may be that the right of children to safety precedes all other rights, overrides all other rights. As is the fact that the state's supply obligation is unquestioned. Social and child welfare services, the transformation process in the field of child protection started in previous years, and measures taken to improve the functioning of the care system are also included in the bill before us. This bill, like the previous amendments, clearly aims to strengthen the child protection system and the safety of children. The amendment has now been brought to life by problems in the application of the law, and we know from experience that such problems in the application of the law, such gaps in interpretation and application, often lead to dramatic, tragic consequences, and are an ongoing threat to workers in child protection and child welfare. The aim of the bill is to strengthen the safety of children in child protection institutions and correctional institutions, and to better prevent and detect their abuse. In order to achieve this, the proposal amends the Child Protection Act and the Social Law, and also concerns four additional pieces of legislation. We trust that the cooperation of the organisational, maintenance and sectoral level in a clear, close and clear protocol will enable targeted, fast and effective prevention, primarily, of child abuse cases highlighted by their families to be investigated and managed. It should also be made clear that there is no excuse for sexual abuse and sexual violence against minors, that very determined and only zero tolerance measures are justified. The bill before us is, in our view, as is the area of child protection and child welfare, an area outside of party policy, which is why I am asking for your support. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-12-337	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask Mr Károly Czibere, Secretary of State, if he would like to comment now. [[On the sign of Charles Czibere:]] He says he'll want to comment at the end. I now give the floor to Sebestyén Csítő, who will present the minority opinion of the People's Welfare Committee within a three-minute time frame.
u2017-06-12-338	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Firstly, in the presentation of the minority opinion, I would like to say that only Jobbik representatives of the opposition representatives of the People's Welfare Committee spoke to this debate. I'd like to explain a few things from this. First, I would like to tell you something interesting that happened at the committee meeting. It is that a Fidesz Member of Parliament also argued for and voted in favour of a better proposal. It was nothing more than changing the job of child protection guardian. In the current legislation, it states that it is initiating a relationship. We wanted to change this by not initiating this relationship, but by continuing it. It is possible to initiate a relationship for years, but if it is stated in law that it is doing so, it is already a kind of obligation, and it is not possible to avoid responsibility on such grounds or, in many cases, a responsibility. This could also be a measure that could prevent tragedies or prevent abuses. The other very important amendment, which is also addressed in the Commission's amendment, is a case in which paedophile offences or the endangerment of a minor against criminal offences are dealt with in court. In the right-hand amendment, it is stated that in either case there should be no special consideration, which may give an exception to the penalty imposed or the additional penalty, that he should no longer be able to work in a job where he is in contact with children, or that children are in charge of his supervision. In the Commission's amendment, which was adopted by the Committee, the possibility of, or consideration of, the circumstances requiring particular appreciation for pedophile crimes will be included in the Commission's amendment. They claim that this is a violation of judicial freedom, in fact one of the pillars of democracy and democratic settlement. I also directly consulted with judges on this issue, and also with fairly high-ranking judges, and they said that it would not undermine judicial independence at all if both parts remained in it. They think it's taking a burden off their shoulders because they don't have to weigh it in such cases. To think that we are not talking about a misdemeanor, we are not talking about the endangerment of a minor who can be dealt with in his case, but about a case that is a criminal offence and a final judgment, there must not be an opportunity for circumstances requiring special consideration. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-12-339	Thank you, Congressman. I had to interrupt; now I have to give the floor back, because he has also applied as an independent Member to give his opinion. So you're free to continue, Congressman.
u2017-06-12-340	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Then I'll pick up where I left off. By the way, I am saying, not as a minority rapporteur, but as a political politician of the group, that, unfortunately, the situation with the current proposal is, as with many others, we can say this, with a salad law, that I can agree with or agree with the objective itself. It has some modifications that are necessary and good. Another question is that in many cases they are not sufficiently heavy and not strict enough, but it would still be acceptable. I think that if a proposal has already improved some of the current conditions, it should be supported even if it does not provide and provide the perfect solution. However, there are amendments in this proposal that are unacceptable. There are some amendments that are unacceptable from a professional point of view, and we have just heard that this must be a matter beyond politics, and I agree with that, but I do not understand why a politically motivated item of corruption had to be included in this salad law, and I will soon talk about it in more detail. So because of the professional objectionable parts and one of the last passes, which is highly political and corruption-prone, this law is unfortunately not eligible, so we will be able to use the possibility of staying, indicating that there are directions and objectives in it that we can agree with, but there are some in it that we cannot agree with at all. [[21.20]] From a professional point of view, I would like to highlight the part of what sets out guidelines regarding the appointment of the head of the institution and the extension of his appointment. I remember when the first Orbán government came to power, then the establishment of a quality assurance system within the social care system was thrown in. By the way, it's been thrown into the education system that this is going to happen. Almost 20 years have passed since then, and nothing has happened on this issue. Nothing happened so much that we can't even see the germs of this happening. This proposal also shows that this would have been very necessary, and that the events of the past period and those that have fallen to the surface, and rather that skeletons that have fallen out of the closet, are the basis that this should have been worked out and that it should already work. One aspect that should work, which does not affect the law, is more about the social career model. If the social career model is to be introduced, then it is essential that a quality assurance system be developed and used methodologically and professionally correct, because the quality assurance system and the points received there should be parallel to the options offered by the career model, and indeed, who is performing very well in a quality assurance system, and we could even say that it performs above average, is performing in addition to mandatory tasks as an enthusiastic and professional social professional, it should also apply in the career model. The other point that should be raised is that, with such amendments as are now in front of us, we should not build a household master system within the social care system, so that we can guarantee, or rather say, that in order to reassure our conscience, we can guarantee that only suitable persons can run certain child protection institutions or even other institutions. If it was the quality system, we wouldn't have to create this snitch system. In all the debates, I said in the committee, in the general debate, that I also worked as a social professional in the public sector and in other areas of the public sector, and I know very well that - and in many cases, because of the low wages and the lack of recognition - there is a kind of malice among certain colleagues. This is usually the number one target of the leader. So if we ask our colleagues about a new appointment or an extension of an appointment, then in many cases this malice, and the next-door cow, as a result of its approach, may not be able to get into the position of a very capable leader, who best leads the institution, introduces the best innovations and uses the best methodology, and which, let's say, would also be necessary for an institution to flourish and set it on an upward course. I think that we should remove this subjective factor and, rather than strengthen it, not as this proposal proves, but rather suppress it at some level. Of course, I know that this is a great deal of work, but if we consider that the governments of all ages have been behind 20 years since 1998, then I think that this great work could have been done and that it could have been guaranteed that capable and willing leaders would actually be appointed to lead the institutions. The other, the politically objectionable passage, and that, I think, is also because of what caused the poster law to be before Parliament today, and we will vote on it on Wednesday, which is also because you very well suspect that after 2018, you will not be running this country, you will not be the Fidesz-KDNP government of the country, but hopefully will be the better government of the country. Of course, I know very well that there are channels that you don't want to shut down even after your fall, and you want to keep them. One example is the Elizabeth programme. Civil society organisations close to you through the Elizabeth programme will want to pump money for another five years after the fall. It's not enough that they've been playing the former pioneer camps at Lake Balaton, now they want to leave the money taps open for five years after their fall. This is unacceptable and intolerable. I believe that it is a sin to maintain and support a system of corruption across such governments, which is why, unfortunately, it is also a sin to accept this salad law, because it contains this passage. Therefore, as I said at the beginning of my speech, we will, as a result, choose to abstain in the vote on the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2017-06-12-341	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2017-06-12-342	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Well, the social and child protection system is still being pushed around by the government, but basically, we don't deal with the main problems. We have also said this in the debate that the lack of expertise, lack of resources and territorial inequality of access remain not the way this amendment should be dealt with. My fellow Member has told me quite a lot about the problem with this salad law. There are elements that are included in the amendment with a purpose to improve, but there are elements that we cannot support. I will ask the Secretary of State once again, because I asked her in the debate, and then I also asked Ms Katalin Novák, State Secretary, and I did not get the answer that it is a good thing that this maternity allowance is extended to Hungarian children born abroad. I asked in the debate whether the same legal requirements would apply to the mothers out there, as would the mothers in the home; that, say, four times, they should appear in a protective service or a doctor. How are you gonna check this out? Do they really expect that? Because I think that if we expect it at home, we should be able to expect it from mothers living abroad. Or we're just talking about getting a vote before the elections, let's be honest, Mr. Secretary, because we have a right to have it in us. And I would also like to ask the Secretary of State whether, after extending this maternity allowance, we can find out the exact answer to our written question about how many children are born abroad, Hungarian children. Because last time I checked, the LMP was given the LMP that 78 thousand children were born, and then I was answered by Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, that such data was not available to the EMMI. So let's hope that if this support is born now, we can finally see it, and we can also ask the Ministry for accurate data, despite the fact that there are bodies in the data request that provide it. Secretary of State, we need more resources, reinforcement of the system, replacement of the shortage of professionals, and we continue to say that it is not a six-month revision of the law. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Anita Herring claps.]]
u2017-06-12-343	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone would like to comment on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I'll ask... I mean, I'm sorry, I'm not closing the debate, I'm giving the floor to Secretary Charles Czibere. [[21.30]]
u2017-06-12-344	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I would like to begin by thanking both for what has been said in the debate and for the amendments. As Mr President has said, it is felt and felt that, in this debate, there is a consensus on the political agenda and draft, which is the common goal, the issue of child protection and the issue of the safety of children over parties. Thank you very much, everyone, for making such proposals for amendment. I think, in response to the Congresswoman, that this is not an absolution. As we go forward in strengthening the child welfare and child protection system, we have to keep changing not only the pre-recorded directions into legislation. Think, for example, of the strategic directions in child protection, which are the strengthening of the foster care system, the replacement and closure of large, ageless child protection institutions, think of the issue of the transformation of the child welfare system. These are strategic directions, and basically they are designed and formulated to provide the child with all the support in the blood family, but if there is a problem, the warning system should move in time, it will also be strengthened in this direction. While in these strategic directions, I have now listed four in the area of child welfare and child protection, we go forward, always responding to events, cases that cause major storms or scandals. So the public expects us to analyse them, evaluate them, and then carry out the consequences that come from them. It was the same in the case of Bicske, and in the case of pearl. The government took immediate action, in both cases within a month the final audit report was in place, and then, for example, at the special meeting of the Working Group on Extraordinary Child Protection or Priority Child Protection in these cases, it was discussed, for example, with the participation of the court, the police, other law enforcement authorities, all law enforcement authorities, on 18 November last year, experiences, lessons learned, and they were then added to the spring package. We would like to continue this process of learning and understanding. In each of these cases, after all investigations have been concluded, we will assess them with the involvement of all those who apply the law, and if the assessment has a legislative dimension, we will present them to you here. I think that this is not an apology, this is the responsibility of the legislator and the government. The other question was leadership. I think that we very much agree with Mr President when we push for quality assurance and quality. I think that the establishment of an institutional internal administrative quality assurance system is not a single element of this and not a single possible instrument. By the way, you are right, in 2001, under the first Orbán government, the idea of having a similar model of Comenius - this was the quality assurance programme for public education - in the social system as well as in the social services system. It hasn't been idle in the past. There are a lot of impact assessments and analyses carried out to see what would be a good quality assurance system in these institutions, ISO-based, TQM-based, other. I could give you a list of the professional analyses that we've had in the past, and I've been involved in several of these analyses myself. This is a very long preparatory work, and I think we need to get this far. However, there are guarantees of quality work today. I wanted to refer you back to that. It is not a simple story that can only be expected from the quality assurance system. The system of 1/2000, the minimum standard, is such a quality issue. The fact that there are authorities that control, for example, the enforcement of the rights of residents, customers or, for example, the enforcement of minimum standards. These are all qualitative output indicators, and they are still in place today. So I think that there is still a quality factor, but there are some that still need to be worked out; I think that is the issue of satisfaction measurement, such as external effectiveness. We're working in these, and we're going to put these in front of you as we go along. I also think that what Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi raised is an important issue, by clarifying and supplementing the rules on the appointment of managers, which makes it clear that the former employer of the future manager should be informed of the disciplinary matters of the person concerned, the reason for the termination of the employment relationship, even if the person concerned did not deal directly with a child at his previous job. In the case of the re-election of the head of the correctional institution, its home managers and the head of the institution operating the children's home, the employer shall also request an opinion from the municipality of the municipality of that institution on the cooperation of the person concerned with them. We believe that the range of potentially available information can be significantly expanded. Another point of the same proposal corrected the rules for entry into the rehabilitation facility of persons with disabilities and their home for rehabilitation purposes. We supported that, too. As you said, Mr President, the next question is the correction of tasks in relation to the child protection guardian. He spoke of the substance of the proposal. Instead of initiating a discussion for the guardian of child protection, the amendment outlines the outcome of the discussion, which, in our view, is less accurate than the current provision. In other words, the amendment does not affect the bill and does not specify it. The third big issue is Btk. The pharmacokinetics of darbepoetin alfa have been studied in patients with chronic renal failure who received Here the amendment tabled by Mr Tamás Sneider and Mr Sebestyén Vágó is one of the amendments which suggested that the possibility of judicial consideration in the event of a ban on employment be abandoned. The amendment, however, has a narrower content than the other proposal, and the Government therefore supported the more extensive proposal tabled by Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi and other Members. The point is that the possibility of judicial consideration in relation to disenfranchisement of the occupation should only apply to the endangerment of the minor in the event of a criminal offence. The Government supported this amendment, but the Legislative Committee did not support these amendments. Thus, the single proposal was presented without leaving this point. Of course, here I would like to promise you that we will continue on this path. Since I mentioned that our common goal and our ambition is to continue to show zero tolerance to sexual crimes against vulnerable children, we will continue to look for the legislative possibilities to tighten this up in the next period. I would like your support in advance for these efforts. Finally, both the Member and the Member have mentioned the part concerning the Elizabeth programme, and they have proposed leaving this part in their proposal. This cannot be supported by the government, as the purpose of the amendment is to ensure a long-term, predictable framework for camping and to provide an adequate background for the quality development of camps. Congresswoman also asked the question of maternity allowance. The question of who will be covered will be governed by the implementing regulation. Of course, it will be available to all the data that we can provide, provide and provide. There's no secret in these cases, we'll share everything. Once again, I would like to thank you for the amendments tabled with a view to improving the bill. I would like to ask that the single proposal be supported in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-06-12-345	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. The Commission's reports on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2018 and the discussion of the summarised amendment are now under way. Government referral T/15429. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Dénes Pigeon, rapporteur of the committee. [[21.40]]
u2017-06-12-346	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 8 June 2017 shall be subject to the provisions of house rules 46. T/15429 on the basis of Article 4 of the Act on the establishment of the central budget of Hungary for the year 2018 The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 19 votes in favour, 6 against and 2 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the amendment of the Committee on Budgets, on the one hand, and the initiative of the Committee on Legislative Affairs, on the other, which clarifies the committee's text in a legal manner. Among the amendments, I would like to highlight the provision that, when investing in the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, payment of the main contractor carrying out the construction is made on the basis of certain delivery milestones. In the process of fulfilling the contractual obligations, Magyar Development Bank Zrt. should be allowed. contribute to the rapid and professional conduct of administrative processes. In view of the fact that a legal authorisation is required for the MFB to carry out document control tasks in respect of a transaction without taking on a loan or equity financing activity, it is necessary that the law laying down the framework for the performance of the task 2 and 3 The list in Section 2 of this Article shall include, on the one hand, the transaction and, on the other, the task itself. The proposal also states that this task is not a financial service, but a specific activity carrying out the formal examination of documents, which should not involve an exposure to the bank that would be linked to the credit risk requirement for credit institutions and investment firms. I would also like to mention the initiative of my fellow Member, Mr Sándor Bodó, on the Committee on Budgets. The amendment tabled by the Committee on Budgets will change, and the Law on the Protection of the City Picture will also change, and advertising and advertising may not, as a general rule, be placed in public areas and private areas which will be protected in the future. On the basis of the debate held, the resolutions of the committees and the summarised amendment and summary report of the Legislative Committee, I would like to ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-12-347	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask Mr Secretary of State, Mr Péter Benő Banai, if you would like to comment as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] He says he doesn't want me right now. The designated Committee on Budgets did not draft a rapporteur, so I give the floor to Imre Ritter, a German ethnic advocate, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate. You have the floor.
u2017-06-12-348	Thank you. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the basis of the central budget of Hungary for the year 2018 T/15429. Bill No.2 concerning the parts of Hungary's nationalities. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is the House Rules of Decision 44-45. It held a detailed discussion of the bill on the basis of Article 5 of the Act. Our committee for the bill is the resolution house rule 32. Having examined the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure, which were indicated in the notification, it concluded that they were in conformity with the rules of the House of Decisions. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. Our Commission did not take a position on the amendments tabled to the bill, nor did it intend to make any further amendments. The Commission's amendment closing the in-depth debate was not tabled and the detailed discussion of the bill was closed on 23 May 2017. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary has said that it has not tabled its own amendment, but, during the parliamentary general debate on the legislative proposal on the basis of which - in agreement with the NGM - the amendment proposed by the Committee on Budgets has already been included in the draft amendment that we requested. In particular, T/15429. Proposal No 83 on the basis of the Central Budget Act. According to §2 of the 2011 General Government CXCV. Law 44. § 1) would change in such a way that the fulfilment of the related tax returns to the State Tax Authority would also be centralised, in addition to the accounting and related paying-place care tasks for the national authorities and the budgetary bodies managed by them, solely on the basis of the centralised payment of salaries operated by the Treasury and on the basis of the reporting thereof. In other words, with this amendment, the Treasury will take or, if you like, take over the obligation to declare to the NAV from the national authorities and the budgetary bodies they manage, while the fulfilment of the tax payment obligations remains the responsibility of the national authorities and the budgetary bodies they manage. We can accept the receipt of the submission of tax returns by the Treasury, but this amendment raised several operational, deadline, eligibility and liability issues. In order to address these issues, to develop detailed rules, to ensure the appropriate time necessary for a full review of possible consequences and sanctions, it is proposed that Article 83 should be amended accordingly. The date of entry into force of the Act shall be 1 January 2018, but not less than 1 September 2017. I thank you, too, for the correct attitude and extremely rapid action of the NGM, since, on the morning following the evening Parliamentary general debate, we have already received a draft textual amendment proposal, which was agreed upon by pushing the entry into force to 1 January 2018, and the amendment to this effect will be tabled by the NGM in its own power. I note in parentheses that since then, the first specific professional consultation with the Treasury has been carried out, the matter has been clarified, and the necessary detailed rules have been established. In view of the fact that the amendment was submitted by NGM under its own authority, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary did not have to submit its own proposal for a detailed debate. Once again, we thank the NGM for its extremely rapid and meaningful action. On this basis, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is the T/15429 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2018. It supports, agrees with and asks the House to adopt the bill. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit.
u2017-06-12-349	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Now we're going to hear from the representatives. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs.
u2017-06-12-350	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In view of the late hour, and the fact that we are already in such a family atmosphere, I will spare you now, and I will not report from point to point what we have had in this bill, let me just highlight two points. One about the migrant bond, more precisely - I wrote to myself here - is a comment on the settlement policy. This part of the bill is updated in the legislation on the establishment of third-country nationals in such a way as to introduce a true reference to the location of an empty point. Normally, if it weren't for this law, it wouldn't be for this part of it, we wouldn't even be talking about it; it's a professional solution that, I'll tell you once more, doesn't deserve a word. Just imagine what happened, Mr. Secretary. On June 6, Viktor Orbán said the following. He stood there and said that when opposition representatives criticized settlement, alias migrant bonds, that he had spoken about this many times, perhaps sixteen times, that is what the Prime Minister said; then he went on to say: the opposition request - that is, to eliminate this form of settlement bonds - we took the vows and stopped the issue of such bonds. [[21.50]] After that, I took the liberty of submitting an amendment that cancels the entire section. Well, if Viktor Orbán said that there is no such kind of residency bond, it does not have to exist in the Hungarian legal order at all! But you refused to do so. So is there a migrant bond or is there no such migrant bond? I'm asking you very nicely to clear this up between us. However, I feel that the government is holding a very harsh double speech, because they do want to levitate this kind of settlement policy so that Antal Rogán can continue to spin the story and bring it back in a quieter political period. I really don't recommend that. The other is - and you said this afternoon in Parliament - that the budget for 2018 is a budget in which everyone, every Hungarian citizen, can take a step forward. With all due respect, this is not true in this form, because there is a layer of thirty or a few thousand people in this bill, so there is not a few who will continue to stand still. The maximum increase in the guaranteed minimum wage could mean anything to them. But let's face it, that's not a significant step forward or gesture. This is about the fact that the scope of the Law on State Officials was originally intended to be extended beyond the employees of district government offices to the county government offices and to the Ministry staff. This was moved from 1 January 2018 to 2019 or who knows when; when Jesus Christ will return to judge living and dead. The point we're always pushing is never gonna get in. So I think that if people can't move forward, they're the staff of the Ministry and the county government. How much does this cover? How much do we regret these people now? What is the visual investment, the extra support given to Antal Rogán, Andy Vajna or anyone in government circles that could not have been used with a good heart? I know, Mr. Secretary, that you would have done this, but why don't you fight to get it? These people are working for you right now. And then, of course, they'll be working for us in 18, but in the meantime, they do deserve this gesture. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-06-12-351	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai as rapporteur.
u2017-06-12-352	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to start by saying that the foundation bill for next year's draft budget law contains 29 legislative amendments directly or indirectly linked to the implementation of next year's draft budget law and then the law to be adopted. I consider it positive that there was no debate on the vast majority of the amendments tabled and that some of the elements that were addressed by Members were raised. With regard to the items that have just been mentioned, I confirm what Mrs Hegedűs Lorántné said, namely that it is only a technical amendment, and I confirm that the financing of the Hungarian State does not require us to use the means of the settlement policy in the future. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: Let's stop her!]] Congresswoman, if you are talking about winding up, you should see that there is no new settlement bond issue and you should also see that the Hungarian State is complying with all the obligations of payment for the sovereign debt issued by it. So, of course, it also fulfils the payment obligation for the longer-term sovereign debt issued in the forint, and the Hungarian State, according to the undertakings, will also make payments on the settlement bonds. In this respect, there is a substantial difference between applying a new issue to finance public debt and whether or not the Hungarian State is in line with our commitments previously entered into. A clear distinction should be made between future financing and financing related to past measures. I think that it should be seen as a positive thing - I repeat - that today the funding of the Hungarian state is also very low in many years of comparison, and thank God that there is internal funding, an internal savings, I am thinking mainly of the population, which, thanks to its growing income situation, is increasingly capable of financing Hungarian public debt. The Member mentioned that in the legislative package of next year's budget law, there is a provision under which the wage increase for government officials will take place from 1 January 2019. The Congresswoman said that the saying that they could take a step forward in 2018 is not true for this layer. I would like to draw the Honourable Parliament's attention to two things in this regard. The first thing is that some 560,000 of the so-called public sector workers employed in central government bodies will receive and received wage increases next year. Among them are nurses, doctors, public education workers, higher education workers, police officers, soldiers, NAV employees, government officials, workers in the social and cultural fields, and, for example, the staff of the State Audit Office, which has consulted the draft budget law. The government expects that if the economic growth that we have projected will be achieved and the growth that will be substantially higher than the average of the European Union will be achieved in 2019, then there will also be a wage increase for government officials. If the current government receives confidence in 2018, we will continue with our wage-raise policy so far, I think we can trust that this wage increase will be achieved. Finally, let me mention that people who do not see wage increases in the public sector in 2018 may experience progress in other areas. They are also beneficiaries of the VAT reduction measure, and the VAT rate is reduced for the restaurant services they buy and for Internet services as well. You may also see VAT reductions in other purchases; and, Madam Member, if we are talking about the situation of two children, they, too, the government officials who have raised two children, will also see an increase in family tax relief next year. I therefore believe that the bill establishing the budget for next year before the Honourable Parliament is integral to the budget for next year. One of the foundations is that next year, with substantial economic growth, the real wages of employees will increase both in the competitive sector and in many areas of the public sector. With these thoughts, I propose to the Honourable Parliament the adoption of a bill on the basis of the 2018 budget. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[22.00]]
u2017-06-12-353	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting.
u2017-06-12-354	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The Legislative Committee of the Parliament is the resolution house rule 46. At its meeting on 8 June 2017, T/155558 discussed the amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of pensioners' cooperatives of general interest. The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 19 votes in favour, 8 against and no abstentions. During its proceedings, the committee examined the House Rule 42 of the Decision. § 4 and Article 44 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union Paragraph 1 of this Article also meets the legal and legislative requirements of the Fundamental Law and the other necessary legal and legislative requirements. In addition to the resolution on the proposed amendments, the Committee expressed and adopted an intention to amend further on the proposal of its members belonging to the ruling party group. The Legislative Committee for the bill by the Economic Commission 15558/6. The discussion of the Commission's proposal to close the detailed debate was closed on 8 June 2017. The Economic Committee held a detailed debate on the bill at its meeting on 23 May 2017. The Economic Committee also supported the individual amendments tabled by Gábor Varga, Mr Fidesz, Member Nos 4 and 5, with which the draft legislation was substantially supplemented or made more coherent. On the basis of the summary amendment proposal and its summary report presented by the Legislative Committee, I ask you to support the adoption of the bill with your vote. Thank you.
u2017-06-12-355	Thank you, Congressman. Now, I'm gonna ask you... as a proposer, you don't want to, I guess, comment now because you joined [[Dr. Dénes Pigeon says no.]] , indicates that you do not wish to comment at the moment. On behalf of the government, I will ask Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary if he wishes to comment. [[Peter Cseresnyés says no.]] It says no. The designated Economic Committee did not set up a rapporteur, so the representatives' speeches will follow. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes.
u2017-06-12-356	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, We are now really in a very family atmosphere here in Parliament. I am sorry that the original authors, Lajos Kósa and Péter Harrach, are not in the room, even though they could say that our amendment, which I have tabled with my fellow Members, is being supported tomorrow, because we specifically asked for this amendment. We're curious, it's a way to prove who they don't want to pay with this retirement organization. In our amendment, we lay down a rule of conflict of interest that the group of persons operating and holding the school cooperative should not participate in the life of the pensioners' cooperatives in any form. I think that this would be a good basis for proving that they do not wish to pay the owners of the school cooperatives, for example, with this organization, because wherever we look at the professional contributions, we do not see the point of this pensioner cooperative that you are creating. The public interest is already seen, and it was quickly written in the bill with a subsequent amendment, because it was not even originally included in the text. Neither pensioners, pensioners' organisations, trade unions, nor anyone sees the point of this proposal, since pensioner employment could otherwise have been facilitated by simpler means and could have been resolved without the establishment of the cooperative. For example, it could be possible to allow unpaid employment for the employment of pensioners or to introduce more flexible retirement rules than at present, but all of these do not require a pensioner's cooperative in the public interest. For this reason, our group will certainly not support this bill, as we know at least about their proposals as individual representatives' proposals that no one has been consulted beforehand, either with pensioners' organisations, or with pensioners or anyone else. They could talk to people in smoky rooms, locked rooms, who nodded to this amendment proposal. I think that they should basically just withdraw this, they should reach the decision that the government proposed by the National Competitiveness Council at the beginning of April, that the labour rules for pensioners should be amended, that should be initiated, not a pseudo-organisation that can function as a maximum paying place. Thank you.
u2017-06-12-357	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Sebestyén Cutter.
u2017-06-12-358	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In the context of this proposal, we must conclude that either the response time of the government or of the pro-government representatives is very slow, or that there is an ulterior motive behind this great recognition, which we can also read in the draft legislation, to refer to the accumulated professional experience and to the loss of them. I would like to point out that this is too late, because a longer time has passed since the exclusion and the introduction of conflicts of interest, and since then, unfortunately, there are those who, when I look at my own specialty, are working in the social care system, who, despite speaking about reintegration or reactivation to the labour market, will no longer go back, so the professional knowledge and experience and wisdom they have accumulated are already lost. Because a few years ago, they were not in a much better financial situation in the social care system than they are now, we found that, by introducing conflicts of interest, even employees at management level had to consider, overnight, moment after moment, this change, so they couldn't even think about raising their replacements and standing there, I tell you, institutional leaders who had to consider whether they were going to retire or stay in the social care system, continue working, giving up their pensions, but the interesting situation was that their pension, as a result of the social pay table, was higher than what they would have received in a senior position as a salary. So, based on their well - thought - out interests, they decided to retire for higher income. Once again, this knowledge, this wisdom, this accumulated experience has been lost, they are late. I don't think the cooperative system would help pensioners work more in the public sector, I don't think that would lead to such a huge reactivation. By the way, I trust that there will still be pensioners who are going back to work, taking advantage of this opportunity and passing on their existing experience and wisdom, only I have a bad feeling behind this proposal, and I believe that, as we have heard from other opposition representatives, this could have been done much easier, with a stroke of a pen, and that certain sections should have simply been removed from the current law. I, too, do not understand why a cooperative should be set up. Of course, knowing the dynamics of the current government, I also see a suspicion of corruption, and I fear that my fears are well founded. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-12-359	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2017-06-12-360	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, It would have been really good if our fellow Member Lajos Kósa and our fellow Member Peter Harrach were sitting in the same room as they vehemently supported this amendment in connection with the debate. You're trying to make up for a shortage of workers. The ruined economic policy, education policy and social policy of the past eight years have not brought the result that was promised to the people eight years ago and four years ago. [[22.10]] Although a million new jobs have been promised, market-based jobs for Hungarian citizens, almost nothing has become of this, we can only see that hundreds of thousands of people have left this country, and in the next period 370,000 young people want to leave Hungary, based on a survey by the HCSO. Everyone they could do, they were forced to retire, they could do, they became public workers, they delivered school obligations for 16 years, 47,000 young people disappeared from the system, 4-5 thousand children who can work as public workers in Hungary today, children's work has been legalized, and now we have this new proposal, which we said in the debate, that we are slowly getting to the point that this country is now packed together by students and pensioners, say, in large stores. Mr. Secretary, this isn't right. We said it in the debate, and it could have been resolved in a simpler way. By the way, in recent years, we have seen the form of a cooperative for Fidesz, how it got involved in the form of a cooperative, as the ETUSZ case took place, as far as Flórian Farkas is concerned, as we have seen in the Voldemort case. How many examples do we have, Mr. Secretary, when we can say that when we say that it is a form of co-operative, we do not think of the positive things, but it is specifically the crime, corruption and corruption linked to Fidesz? There's another way. Mr Secretary of State S, perhaps the most important thing would be that the government should implement an economic policy each year where people are paid and not choose to leave this country. We continue to see and will not support this law. The next, Mr Secretary of State, I must say this, is that, as in the Taigetos Act, they refer to the consultation of professional organisations. That's not true. They didn't even consult the professional organizations on this amendment. That's exactly what they want to avoid, because from the very first moment, professional organizations would tell us what the problem is with what you're doing. Bypassing this, only such laws have been constantly submitted in recent years. That's no way to steer, and that's no way to think responsibly! Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Anita Herring claps.]]
u2017-06-12-361	Thank you. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed and I give the floor to Dénes Pigeon, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said.
u2017-06-12-362	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, When I joined the bill, I also did so because I thought about all the questions raised here by my fellow Members in the final debate about how to react, because life experiences show something else, at least in my constituency. I do not wish to answer the question that Anita Heringes raised as to how the original authors take their position on the issue of conflict of interest. But I do not understand the question, because in this regard your position raises a question which is not realistic, so in this respect the introduction of it into the law, I think it would be forced. With regard to student associations, let me immediately refer to another parallel, which my fellow Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély raised, that cooperatives have become ill-famous in relation to various anomalies and various cases, and I think he meant student associations. Because someone is taking advantage of the good potential of a system somewhere, there is no need to reject the whole system and make it the subject of a debate. In Dunaújváros and its area, there have been serious traditions and there are student cooperative activities, and I think that getting to the parallel that the pensioner and the student will be packing on the shelves of Tesco or one of the stores, I consider such discrimination to be exaggerating; on the one hand. On the other hand, I do not consider it realistic why a pensioner who has left a given store or a given unit should not be able to do a useful job in which he can join and return his experience. I also disagree with the fact that they cannot pass on the experience, referring to my fellow Member, Mr Sebestyén Végó. In the preamble to the proposal there is a sentence that is linked to my local experience: a master and a lackey relationship. Believe me that in Dunaújváros, where we are living in a period of transformation of the heavy industry, and there is also a shortage of workers and a large number of people who wish to enter the labour market, for example in the field of vocational education; on the way I remembered what a good example was that the instructors who fell out of vocational training for some reason, and in front of me, there is always the Dunaújváros Dunaferr school, where we have a shortage of instructors, so that people who can return with immediate experience in practical education are very needed in the plant to which we must train people who can take over the work of their predecessors. Indeed, if we find the form of a cooperative suitable for this, then we must try this range, because the cooperative form - referring back to the positive experiences of student cooperatives - has been tested, and it is not from the negative phenomenon that we have to derive from a system that does not work well. Obviously, this is a form, with this opportunity, I think it is necessary to live. And I ask myself that this form of cooperative would be a hotbed for corruption, as it would deter and deter decent pensioners who would like to come back to work. In the context of all this, I think that I have calmly joined this bill, and, based on what I have seen in my constituency, I trust that we will, of course, be able to make use of this opportunity differentiated by profession, differentiated by field, not everywhere and not with a string, with patience, differentiation and obviously with competences, and I call for the support of my fellow Members to do so.
u2017-06-12-363	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place tomorrow. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. By some miracle, no one came forward to speak after the agenda, so I thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 10:17 p.m.]]
