u2017-11-14-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 20th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and István Ikotity will be attending the meeting to help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work with speeches before the agenda. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-11-14-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Hungary has been struggling with a demographic crisis for several decades, and a growing number of children are facing fertility problems. Not only am I saying this, but I have a written question written to me by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. We know that the Family Administration was formed a week ago, but I still have to say that this government has not become a family-friendly government. You can tell by the fact that the Family Administration has only one lady, and she's only a permanent guest, not a full member. But that's not what I want to talk about. We have repeatedly said in the walls of this House that we will have one of the biggest and most serious problems, whether we can stop the population loss in Hungary and whether we can stop fewer and fewer children from being born. One way to improve these indicators and these serious problems is to address the problem of infertility in the place of the government. Today, according to known data, we can talk about one in five Hungarian couples having fertility problems, which means that we are talking about 200,000 barren couples in Hungary. I'm used to adding that we're good with these numbers, because these are the known data. I think we can talk about a lot more couples, because a lot of people don't get into the system, we don't know about a lot of people with these problems. I have asked a lot of written questions about this. Although there has been quite a debate on this issue this summer, I have also spoken before the agenda. In my last written reply, Mr. Secretary of State gave me a rather strange answer:. The current government is trying to help those who want to start a family or have fertility problems. This is a very different approach than that which you have represented in the government, when both society and the profession and with the greatest outrage, fertility treatments and IF supply [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: IVF.]] They sought to narrow it down. Our national strategy goal is to provide more resources to public institutions and clinics in Budapest and in rural areas, while making funding more transparent. The winners of the growing resources and opportunities will be Hungarian couples, thus Hungarian families will be Hungarian families in the long term. The changes bring not only financial benefits, but also make couples' lives more comfortable, as well as a faster supply process. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Secretary. If anyone knows this system, I know it, and not because I'm telling you in advance, I don't want you to give me an answer and react like I'm a lobbyist for private institutions. No! I'm looking at this problem from the perspective of couples who have been involved in this for many years. Secretary of State, I know every segment of this problem, I say as I was concerned. We've been fighting for a child for seven years with my partner. But, Mr. Secretary, you didn't give me what I asked you in this written question about the institutions that received extra support. But I got it: the University of Pécs, the Kaposi Mor Training Hospital in Somogy County, St. John's Hospital, North Buda Unified Hospitals and Semmelweis University. Secretary of State, where can the people of East Hungary have better access to this state care? [[Dr. Bence Retvári: in Debrecen.]] Meg, Secretary of State, it is a talkative number that more than 80 percent of barren couples who are now undergoing flask treatment go to private clinics. That means that his confidence in public institutions is lacking, he has no confidence, because he does not receive the care that would mean that he could have the child in his hands as soon as possible. And, Mr. State Secretary, in private institutions, the person concerned is also receiving social security benefits, so I don't want you to say that there is no social security in private institutions. I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, although I have also asked you a written question, if this extra HUF 2 billion will not reach its goal, if no more children will be born, what will you do with this support and will you see that you do not support the system that would be effective today in Hungary. Secretary of State, I would just ask, in the interest of the 200 thousand Hungarian couples involved, that you consider this support system and consider the communication that is used to attack private institutions. I think that these couples deserve a lot more in Hungary, because believe me, it's very rough, very difficult. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] What these couples are going through, and there's only one purpose for them to keep a child in their hands. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2017-11-14-2	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-14-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think that every good-hearted person in the government, outside the government, wants to work to help couples who want to have children, but for some reason, this is not possible, as is available at the moment in medical science, the best couple who have the least access to the mother's body and who want to raise the child have the fastest and most beneficial treatment, to receive help, both in the framework of the child's birth and after the child's upbringing. That is why the government has decided to extend to a significant extent, perhaps beyond any previous government, the opportunities that barren couples can enjoy, as you have said, that there are many who are struggling with it. You said one in five, others say one in seven, actually the number is secondary here. There are many people in Hungary today who have fertility problems, this is both a physical and psychological burden, and therefore everyone has a human duty to help them. At the same time, let me remind the honourable Member of the measure taken by her own government. When it was announced on 15 January 2007 that Lajos Molnár, the Minister of Health of the then government, had prepared a draft legislative amendment of his wallet, which was based on the fact that the state would only pay two more than five subsidised treatments, so that the third treatment would cost the couples who wanted to have children 500-700,000 forints. Then, Ágnes Horváth, your minister, said to the RTL Club on 1 February 2007 that it is good that they want to reduce the number of treatments supported from five to two. [[9.10]] Literally, I quote your minister: - If you can make one of two in Europe successfully, or the first 50 percent, then why can't you do it with us? 'The question was asked, and it was thought that they could encourage it by amending the legislation. But let's not forget, you doubted that this government would be family-friendly. Well, let's not forget what the MSZP-SZDSZ government has given to the Hungarian families, to be more precise: what it has taken. He took away a year's worth, took away the Socpol, took away the possibility of supported forint loans, and instead drove Hungarian families into foreign exchange loans [[Anita Heringes: You introduced the currency loan!]] Taken the tax allowance for the second and third children, skyrocketed the cost of textbooks by privatizing textbook companies, twice and triple the household rent, you name it. [[Anita Herring: Very! We laugh at all the lies!]] but the Hungarian families had to pay for it when Ildikó Lendvai said it slowly [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] That there will be no gas price increase, but it has been tripled. In 318 sites, they took away the opportunity for children to go to primary school in their own settlement. They'd put in a visa fee at the pediatrician's, put in a hospital for the children's wards. They took his job away from 250,000 families, since they increased the number of unemployed to 250,000, and to take away even the dignity of families, even Ferenc Gyurcsány, your prime minister, said that many would like to replace old wives. Well, that's how you were with families. On the other hand, Fidesz-KDNP has made good progress in building, expanding the family tax system, providing free textbooks and an extension of children's meals in this area, which the Hungarian families positively confirmed by the fact that thousands more children are born today than in the period of your government. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Where? Where? Where? Out of the country! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] As far as the flask programme is concerned, honourable Member, the government's goal is indeed to make it possible for more [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély presents a card.]] , give this opportunity to as many as possible. For this reason, we want to increase public capacity to gain access to as many pairs as possible and to increase the intensity of the various subsidies, the medicines that need to be purchased have been increased from 70% to 90%, so that even more couples can have access to this. It is indeed the government's intention that if we spend more public money in Hungary to have more capacity for flask treatment, to use more treatment in more places than more doctors, we do not think that we spend this public money to give it to private service providers, we do not think that we can improve the situation, that private service providers occupy even more space in health care, that we have excellent clinics, that we have excellent universities, that we have excellent hospitals in West Hungary, in East Hungary, in Budapest, that there are good people in Pécs, there are good people in Debrecen, there are good people in Budapest, there are good people in Kaposvár, and that we can help them in East Hungary, in South Hungary, in Budapest and in Budapest. This is why the government has decided to give capacity development support of HUF 5 billion and not to private service providers, but to public institutions that are willing to do so and can build it well, and we are confident that we can help more and more Hungarian couples, and I believe that an acceptable argument is that if the state increases public capacity and wants to help as many barren couples as possible. We hope that we will succeed in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-14-4	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. When will workers' poverty be eradicated in education? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-14-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We will never achieve a knowledge-based society if we keep the salaries of professionals working in education permanently low. CHAPTER XXI In the first century, Hungary can be successful if there is quality education, if all students can learn under the best conditions, and if the most paid employees of the public sector, educators and the staff of the public sector raise and educate students. The LMP would spend 20 out of every hundred forints on education, and there would be plenty of money for educational wage increases, which is desperately needed. Even after the introduction of a career model for educators, there is still serious poverty on the part of the new educators. Depending on the degree, they earn a net HUF 117 thousand or 130 thousand per month, depending on their degree, college or university degree, this is not enough for anything. For example, the price of a metropolitan rent is well above HUF 100,000, not to mention an increase in the cost of living. A few weeks ago, in my own example, I presented my 2002 payroll as a starting educator, and it was clear that at that time, 15 years ago, the salary of the starting educator was higher in real terms than at the moment, and I was obviously just talking about starting wages. All of this, what we're seeing, is the government's self-police about how well the pedagogical profession has paid, it's government propaganda, nothing more than that. The teacher's career model needs to be fixed. We are convinced that education can work well if we put the future of our children, our own future, the future of our society in the hands of people with the best skills, put it in the hands of teachers, put it in the hands of their helpers, who are paid to be the best hired workers in the public sector, because without it, the best people are not going to be teachers, and unfortunately, it is going to affect the whole system. Of course, the wages of beginners must be raised to be tempting. This does not mean that a few or even 50 percent, but this means that this should be doubled in a lower voice, Mr Secretary, because double the net salary of 117 thousand forints or 130 thousand forints is becoming tempting in a lower voice, and we still have not talked about making it one of the most attractive salaries. Obviously, this is the way to adjust the entire career rent. All of this is based on what Possibly Other Politics asks and says, because we say that we would spend 20 out of every hundred budget forints on education, and 10 percent of GDP would go to education. I'd like to tell you specifically about the situation of the teachers. If you can say, they work in even more difficult conditions, they deal with disadvantaged children with special needs, often travelling between institutions, holding development classes, but still the gross HUF 10,000 is not the amount they receive in the form of a bonus. In each case, the LMP stands in favour of improving the situation of educational staff. Their situation hasn't changed this year. They're not expecting anything good next year. They're the nannys, pedagogical assistants, informatics, school secretaries, librarians, labists, and I could tell for a long time who deal with children like teachers every day, they should take the burden off their shoulders. Their wages have not changed significantly since 2008, they received some cafetheria, a 7 plus 3 percent wage increase, which means only a few thousand forints. Now they earn less than the minimum wage, and they are prepared professionals. Teachers got career models, they got almost nothing, they stayed on the frozen civil servant payroll. [[9.20]] The public employee pay table has collapsed, wage tension has increased, the minimum wage and the minimum wage in kindergartens and schools cover two thirds of the pay table, so the education and salary system based on recognition of the years worked has completely lost its meaning. The same amount is made by a career-starting graduate worker as a ten-year-old graduate employee, or as a beginner, but a doctor with a doctorate degree. This is a very serious injustice and unworthy of the workers. This obviously needs to be fixed. And then I didn't tell you about the technical staff who work there, and I didn't tell you about the staff who still work in these educational institutions. If it's a XXI. We want a knowledge-based society of the century, then we need to make education workers the most respected workers, and to adapt their salaries to that. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-14-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-14-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I wouldn't want to get into that argument about who needs to earn better, a teacher or a doctor. The government's intention, and in recent years it has been evident that it has been possible for everyone to make better contact, take a step forward with the doctor, take a step forward with the nurse, take a step forward with the teacher, and who earns very little, around the minimum wage or around the minimum wage, and take a good step forward; those who are at the bottom of the pay table will double their salary in a few years. It's obviously making the whole pay system change, fortunately, but it's because everyone's paying more. It's not like before 2010 who can keep their job, who gets their four-hour pay and who gets their four-hour pay, who gets their monthly wages lost in the public sector, education, health care, who loses a month's pension. This is not what the debates are about, but what we are talking about here is that salaries are increasing to such an extent that pensions also need to be given a premium, so that they do not miss salaries, that the salaries of teachers are increasing, but also in other sectors, and what the relative situation of teachers will be like from now on. This is a very positive situation. In addition to a growing economy, with increasing employment, everyone's salary increases, and only sees that the other is bigger than one increase in wages; this is how everyone looks at its relative position. I think it is a good debate in itself, which the LMP has also brought up here, that, in competition with each other, salaries are growing in sectors. However, it is bad news for teachers, but also for others who live on wages and salaries, which is included in the LMP programme, which would eliminate the proportional tax system, thereby increasing taxes, and for teachers who are now earning more than before, they would pay more taxes. So maybe their gross salary would be more, but their net would be less. Congressman, let's see how the teacher's wages, let's say, have turned out in the case of a primary school teacher or teacher. His gross salary in 2010 was 204 thousand forints, which is where we started. This HUF 204,000 has now increased to HUF 302,000, so your salary has increased by nearly HUF 100,000. Let's watch a high school teacher. He started in 2010 with a gross salary of HUF 238 thousand, and now he is at HUF 313,000. And if I look at the average monthly wage per teacher, it was 217 thousand forints in 2010, and now 306 thousand forints. So it's nearly 90 thousand forints more. If I look at how much the budget spent on teachers' wages in 2010 and 2016, it was HUF 302 billion in 2010 and increased to HUF 419 billion, i.e. now we spend 117 billion more on teachers' wages than we used to. This must have been added year after year, as we introduced the new stages of the pedagogical career year after year, making it more and more pay for teachers. And to that, we can add that he is a teacher II. This is about 40,000 teachers, so it is a high number - and it gets 30-35 thousand forints more, since teacher I is a teacher II. He's on his way. You mentioned the situation of the directly assisting staff in the educational work, Congressman. They also received a 10 percent increase at the beginning of this year. And if we look at how the number of teachers is going, how the number of teachers has evolved, because they are also targeted by a representative in his speech - to be more precise: he referred to it - we can see that the number of teachers has also increased by 2,000, and the number of teachers has also increased by a thousand in Hungary. So more people today choose to teach, to work as teachers than they did seven years ago. And if we look at replacements, because it is also important, we all know that there is an ageing age of teachers throughout Europe, that there are over 30 percent of those over 55 years old - otherwise the same proportion of people over 55 in Hungary on average as in the European Union - it is also important to note that while there are 10,000 teachers in the field before the pedagogical career, 13 thousand now, and while they have previously taken up 6 thousand of them, they have hit the entry threshold, this is now 10,000 people, so there are much more teachers' replacements. And it is also important that those who train teachers should also be among the best. This is why wage growth in higher education is also important. In 2016, it was 15 percent, this year 5 percent, next year 5 percent, so more than 25 percent of higher education workers' wages will grow. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-8	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Dóra Dúró, Member of the Jobbik Group, asked for a speech before the agenda. The greatest value - Jobbik welcomes the workers of the social sphere. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-11-14-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The day of social work is November 12th, and it gives us all a great opportunity to welcome social workers and show our appreciation for them. During our lives, we all meet them, because they are the ones who perform the duties of child protection, or we can meet them in nursing care, but they provide for people with disabilities and help families, and we can run into them at school, hospital, or on the street during homeless care. The state institution of social workers also has more than a hundred years of history in Hungary, it is enough to think about the establishment of the National Children's Protection League or the development of mother and infant protection. But what can respect for public figures, on the part of politics, mean for social workers? It may mean the appropriate remuneration, as set out in Annex XXI. working conditions worthy of the century, a predictable vision of the future, and that we do not decide their lives over their heads, but take into account their professional knowledge and experience. Unfortunately, in Hungary, however, the characteristic feature of this sector is that it is the 19th century. They operate in 20th century buildings and equipment and have the lowest wages among the public sectors. Nevertheless, they do their work with complete devotion and humility, and their human attitude makes this system work at all. In 2010, Viktor Orbán committed and promised immediate wage arrangements, without delay, compared to this, instead of making a significant increase in basic salary, they only gave them an allowance that could be taken at any time. According to KSH statistics, the average monthly gross earnings in this sector are HUF 180 800 - this is the 2017 figure - which is also shameful, honourable fellow Members, because you have been governing for seven years, and the average monthly gross earnings of a social worker is typically lower than the average monthly earnings of the two-handed workers. These are all facts that can be adjusted based on the detection of KSH. Every year Jobbik submitted a wage increase in the sector to the budget, but it was not supported by the government in any year. If we consider not only personal expenses but also the circumstances under which these people must work, what do we see? Minister Balog announced that in four years the sector will receive a HUF 400 billion development. This is all well and good, but if we try to convert this into small money, we can say that in a year, the development in the whole social sector is exactly as much as the value of Lőrinc Mészáros's assets increases in the same period. So 100 billion forints of development comes here every year, exactly the same as the increase of your main oligarch. That's all the social sector is worth to you. Of course, Jobbik not only has and has proposals for wage increases, but we would like to express our appreciation for the workers in the sector, so we have put together a seven-point package of proposals, which, in our view, cannot be delayed. [[9.30]] We want to include the allowances in the basic salary and we want to implement significant wage arrangements in the sector. At the same time, a professional career model needs to be launched and introduced. We cannot punish retired social workers because they had low wages and therefore their pensions are low, so we would also introduce pension compensation for them as a result of social benefit. It is essential that we improve working conditions, because they are not worthy of their extremely responsible and psychologically demanding work, the circumstances under which they are forced to work. They need to reduce their administrative burden, as their primary task is to deal with their professional work, have more time, have more energy for this work, and the administrative burden does not take time away from them. We would also like to see training and further training developed; unfortunately, we have not been able to make progress in this regard in recent years. We believe that it is essential to ensure the timely and appropriate provision of the supervision in this area as well. We thank the social workers for their sacrifices, thank you for their humble work for our families, our children, our elderly and people with disabilities. You can count on Jobbik in any case. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-14-10	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-14-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Good morning to Jobbik. Five months before the elections, Jobbik noticed that there were social workers, there were 90,000 people working in this sphere, and it seems that Lajos Simicska gave the order that now there should be promises by sector. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You still haven't noticed them.]] The age of promise has come, and therefore Jobbik is trying to make some kind of promise to the workers of the sector in the last seven and a half years, in the final stage, in the final line. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Don't lie! You're lying again.]] But everyone knows that this is just a suggestion of Simicska's campaign machine. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] But seriously, no one can take it. After all, not only did you not support the proposals here in Parliament when we increased the support of the social sphere or introduced a wage supplement, we introduced a wage supplement, but when we introduced the social work day as a social worker's holiday, Jobbik also came in here and held a abstention in this vote. So he did not support this proposal, not even symbolically. Allow me, Congresswoman, to correct the number of people working in the social sphere's wages in 2010, how much will be from January 2018 and how much the increase will be. Around 2010, a social worker made an average of 137 thousand forints. This 137 thousand HUF increases to 233 thousand forints under our approved budget law. Nearly 100,000 forints is the increase, 62 percent that social workers receive. So the wages of social workers started very deeply, this HUF 137 thousand is extremely low, but we have been able to add nearly 100 thousand forints to this in recent years. Obviously, everyone thinks that 233,000 should be further increased. Only, you know, there was a government in Hungary that took a month's salary, an amount of 8 percent, and a government that added 100 thousand forints, 62 percent for this wage, year after year. You have said this many times, and you have repeated it here today - I don't know exactly why you did it, because if you were to do the math, you wouldn't repeat it so many times - that you would put the sectoral wage supplement and the wage supplement into the basic wage. At the same time, you said it, and you can see here that, in addition to this average, this would have a very negative impact on the employees of the social sphere. After all, the allowance and the wage supplement are added to someone's salary even if they were, let's say, below the level of the minimum wage, and then they would supplement this level and add tens of thousands of forints to it. If your legal arrangement were to be implemented, you would basically take the extra wage and the additional salary from those who earn the least. This legal arrangement is a huge trap for low earning social workers, because what Jobbik has repeatedly expressed here in Parliament would in fact mean a step backwards for the least earners. [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true.]] Yeah. That is mathematics, honourable Member, so it cannot be discussed in particular. In 2014, in the first year of this cycle, we introduced a fee of HUF 12 billion, which meant HUF 8800 for all sectoral workers. These wage-raising measures introduced during the first period were the same amount for all and were general allowances. The wage supplement, which was introduced in 2015 and further increased in 2017, has changed depending on whose degree of education, the degree of experience. The reason for this measure was that obviously the best people who had the best skills had to be kept on the track. Obviously, they also had competitive wages elsewhere, in other sectors, in the private sector or abroad. That is why their salary has increased to a greater extent. This year's increase of HUF 9 billion, the majority of which, HUF 7.5 billion, increases the salary of social care workers in a differentiated way, further increases the wage supplement in Hungarian, meant an average gross HUF 35 thousand. But in the event that someone has worked there for a very long time, has a university degree, he has further trained himself, this HUF 35,000 can go up to an area of up to 80,000 forints. It will complement this at the beginning of next year for 3,300 people, who also have a health education degree, to receive an additional wage supplement to bring their salaries closer to those who work in health care. Thus, the wages of a professional social worker will rise from HUF 114 000 to HUF 205 000, and the wages of a person with a college degree in care of disabled persons will rise from HUF 159 000 to HUF 303 000. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-14-12	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Ms Rózsa Hoffmann, KDNP Group asked for a speech on the title of the strengthening of all-Hungary. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-11-14-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is always a good time to talk about the fate issues of Hungarians in the house of the country. Now, especially after the day of the Hungarian language, when Hungary is once again wanted to be shamed by several high-pitched politicians of the European Union - we have heard last week's hateful outbursts of the liberal leader of the European Parliament - for which we defend our borders, language and identity against well-sponsored, organised and illegal migration with all our strength; when home miners, such as the former Prime Minister, speak shame again for the withdrawal of the rights of our broken people; or when our eastern neighbor adopts and argues for it in a hypocritical way that makes it worse and seriously violates the chances of our one and a hundred thousand fellow countrymen living there remaining in Hungary. However, it is not about these invaluable attempts, but about the results of our struggle. We're getting stronger and stronger. I would not have enough time to list all the measures taken by the Fidesz-KDNP government, all the actions of churches and civil society that served and effectively served the growth of all Hungarians. I'm just mentioning some recent or recent events. A series of religious Hungarian schools, colleges, kindergartens are opened or renewed throughout the Carpathian Basin, and many institutions and sectors of foreign Hungarians are strengthened with our significant government support. In addition to the Karakan stand of Hungarian foreign policy, our Parliament unanimously condemned the article of the Ukrainian educational law which also affected Hungarians. We also supported the European Citizens' Initiative to protect minority languages. I note here that, in order to sign the FUEN call, we must conduct an effective campaign. Last week, representatives of the Hungarians living in the sporadics met again, and the Hungarian Permanent Conference met. The results of these deliberations are known. Tomorrow, on the day of the sporadic Hungarians, the spotlights will again focus on the Hungarians. We have several international conferences to defend the rights of those in need of minorities, such as the conference celebrating or commemorating the 25th anniversary of the Council of Europe's language charter in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, or the other report already adopted by our former fellow Christian Democrat Ferenc Kalmár in Strasbourg, or another report prepared by a Christian Democrat MEP to be discussed in January. [[9.40]] And the valuable work that many civil society organisations, including the Rákóczi Alliance, have been doing in this area for years is exemplary. This year I was not the first to participate in the enrollment program that started in 2004, this time in Vojvodina, Nagykidán, at a festive event where young students and their parents enrolled in the Hungarian school could receive the certificate and scholarship on this issue; only a few dozen of the six thousand this year, but their number is increasing year by year. Because, as the parents said, besides the care of a strong mother country, it is worth going to a Hungarian school and being a good Hungarian. These facts, results and the views of citizens all prove that, yes, the overall Hungarians are strengthening in the right direction. Thank you to our government, all Hungarian people and organizations, local governments, politicians, private people, employees and our foreign country colleagues who are all attached to their Hungarian status. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-14-15	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Parliament, The success of a nation is made up of many factors, such as how the Hungarians in the motherland view Hungarians across the border, see them as a resource or a burden. In this respect, I think that the current Hungarian government made a clear resolution in 2010, which was supported by the majority of the Hungarian Parliament's government - thank you for this. Last week was essentially the big week of national politics, the Hungarian Diaspora Council and the Hungarian Permanent Conference met at the same time, which were able to sum up the results achieved in national policy since 2010 and to define the tasks that will be ahead of us in the coming years. It is also important to talk about this, and it is important to talk about the fact that in 2010 the current Hungarian government, under the leadership of Viktor Orbán, re-launched the process of nation building and reunification. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Because in 2004 the parties to the current opposition on the left committed nothing less than brotherly murder. On 5 December 2004, the left at that time, together with the Communists' successor party, committed a sibling murder when he gave up millions of Hungarian compatriots who lost their legal ties to the Hungarian state not by their own decision, but by the historical pressure, and the Hungarian state refused to overwrite it until 2010. I think that here again we should thank the parliamentary parties supporting the governing majority, Fidesz and KDNP, for giving satisfaction to Hungarians across the border. The success of the nation depends significantly on whether we live our daily lives and fulfill our duties as a good mother country, so since 2010, our decisions have been about the unification of the nation, and as a result we can now say that we have one million new Hungarians, one million new citizens, compared to 2010; perhaps we should call them not new citizens, but repatriated citizens. Commitment in this respect is unquestioned, and one of the important aspects of this is to pursue social policy and national policy [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] , which focuses on the most important aspects of strengthening identity, such as education. Allow me, therefore, Congresswoman, to mention only three specific programmes: on the one hand, the Hungarian-language programme in the Hungarian Land of Birth, in which children attending Hungarian schools receive personal support from the Hungarian State thanks to the tax forints paid by Hungarian taxpayers; the preschool development programme in the Carpathian Basin, the first stage of which was built 76 new kindergartens and crèches, and more than 200 institutions were renewed in other countries of the Carpathian Basin, where a significant number of Hungarian minorities live, and 77 new kindergartens and crèches will be built and another 217 will be renovated in the next period. The most important aim of these measures is to ensure the economic strengthening of foreign Hungarians and their birthplaces, and therefore we have launched an unprecedented economic development programme, resulting in a hundred billion HUF investment and economic development. 2017 was the year of Hungarian family businesses in the Carpathian Basin, and 2018 may be the year of Hungarian families abroad. Finally, let me also draw attention to a very important initiative, the Minority SafePack, which, although it also represents a very important enforcement and legal opportunity for Hungarian minorities, opens up the possibility of minority enforcement. In the final document of the Hungarian Permanent Conference, organisations providing foreign representation were asked to help the participating organisations to present this initiative as much as possible, so that every European minority can thrive in their own culture, in their own mother tongue, in the countries where they live and have every right to do so. The Hungarian government is committed to this. Allow me to thank you, on behalf of the Government, for your work in the Parliament of the European Council. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-16	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, I ask you, with respect to my fellow Members, to take your seats; the basic noise in this Chamber is so strong that it is impossible to hear the speakers properly. Once again, I would like to ask my fellow Members to take their seats when they arrive. Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, from the Fidesz Group, also spoke before the agenda: on the International Diabetes Day, entitled "About Diabetes." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-14-17	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Thank you for the word and the opportunity. The special topicality of my speech before the agenda is that today, on 14 November, it is World Diabetes Day, today it is about our diabetic compatriots, the attention they receive, living with them, compassion and helping them. Of course, today is also about what it is like to live as a diabetic in Hungary today. Dear Parliament, It is important to know that when we talk about diabetes, we are talking about a very large social group. In Hungary, Hungary, more than 770 thousand of our countrymen suffer from known diabetes. However, experts say that the actual number of diabetics is much higher, over 1 million 200 thousand, because unfortunately many do not take regular treatment or even know that they are suffering from this disease. Ladies and gentlemen, As you probably know, there are two types of diabetes, type 1 and type 2 metabolic disease. While type 1 is congenital and incurable, life-style factors, especially inadequate nutrition and lack of exercise, are more important in the development of type 2. More people suffer from type 2 diabetes, 90 percent of patients develop diabetes because of their lifestyle. For this reason, I think it is very forward-looking that the Government of Hungary has introduced a number of measures for healthy lifestyles and nutrition, as well as for regular physical activity. Everyday physical education in schools - let us say that more than one million children already play sports every day - significantly reduces diabetes in future generations, while the government is committed to investing in gym building and educational development. I would also like to say that in 2015, the new Catering Regulation came into force, resulting in a reduction in the use of salt, fat and sugar in school menus. Dear Parliament, Every year, more than 600 thousand of our countrymen are taking medicines used to treat diabetes, for which the state provides social security. Overall, we can say that working together in recent years has made a great deal of progress on diabetes, but at the same time, I say that much remains to be done. In order to get to know their situation and problems even better, we are launching a consultation with the Hungarian diabetic organisations. [[9.50]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to thank those civil society organisations here in the Hungarian Parliament on the World Diabetes Day - [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I should also ask you for some attention - as well as the work of your leaders, who are doing a great deal to make it better for the diabetics here in Hungary. Special thanks to the Hungarian Diabetes Society Péter Kempler, the A Csepp Attention Foundation Strong Antónia, from the Budapest Association of Diabetics Brigitta Füzesi, from the Bátor Tábor Foundation Tímeá Nagy Abonyi and the lecturer of the ELTE Teacher and Kindergarten Training Faculty, Klára Zsoffay. Dear Parliament, On World Diabetes Day, I advise everyone to take part in screening and respect diabetics, understand their situation, and I ask the government to continue to do everything to make it easier for them to live as diabetics in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Once again, I would like to ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2017-11-14-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, we are dealing with a huge population sickness, and many of our fellow citizens are struggling with it every day. If I just look at how many people are taking diabetes medicine, we can say that we have 620 thousand citizens who replace it in pharmacy, and on average 170,000 patients get insulin treatments every year. These are very big numbers, there are a lot of people who are really struggling with this disease. That is why we have increased the amount of money from the budget, the health fund, to treat diabetes. This amount was HUF 35.5 billion in 2010, now it is HUF 48.2 billion, so it is a much higher 36 percent increase, and in six years we have increased the support of diabetics. However, it is also important that, according to the existing tax legislation, patients with diabetes 1 and 2 are entitled to a tax benefit. In the event that they have children - [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you, Mr President - you can expect an increased family allowance, or the state also wants to support their pharmaceutical expenditure, some of which it wants to cover; 55 percent pharmaceutical support, state-resident drug subsidies in the case of diabetes, but much more in the case of a priority indication. So this 55 percent is just the base, which is what the government stands for, which is why we raised 36 percent of the state's funding for diabetes medicine. As Mr President pointed out, part of diabetes, which is not inherited, can be prevented by various lifestyle changes, but in these lifestyle changes the government has radically moved forward, because, on the one hand, we have tried to take effective steps to prevent it by using a public health product tax to promote healthy food and make it easier to access it. It helps everyone to choose healthy foods if this set expands on the shelves of shops, and we can suppress unhealthy foods in shops on the one hand. [[It's a constant murmur. The president's ringing the bell.]] This is the purpose of the potato tax and, on the other hand, the amendment of the canteen regulation serves this purpose. With everyday physical education, we have achieved not only that nearly 1.2 million children play sports every week in Hungary, but we have also achieved that there is no country in the European Union where children would play more sports than in Hungary. Today, in physical activity in the European Union, Hungary is the first, according to international surveys, where children move the most. However, healthy nutrition is important in schools, mental health and personal hygiene, and we have built all of this into a school system. We banished all Hungarian schools, from school buffets, products subject to chips tax, Coke, chips, various over-sugared soft drinks, and not just from school buffets. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But we also banished them from school food and drink machines. There are also positive trends, such as the number of diabetic patients treated with narrow blood vessels or the number of amputations that have been performed for this reason has now declined in a trend over the last seven years. We have model programs: one of them is the HAPPY program that promotes school water consumption so that children drink liquids on the one hand, but do not drink coke or other candy drinks, but water; start with breakfast! To get used to starting the day with breakfast in the morning, because it is healthy; the Merökanal program also tries to provide the best examples in school catering, and the Mintamenza program, in which individual cuisine, individual caterers could compete with each other, to see who could be healthy [[The president's ringing the bell.]] , but at the same time putting delicious food on the children's table. It is important that we also create the conditions for this, exercise, healthy lifestyle, which is why the government launched in 2014 a program that spends 3 billion forints on gym building every year and 3 billion forints on swimming pool construction. In the first phase of this so-called public education infrastructure development program, 27 gymnasiums are built in Hungary and 25 swimming pools are completed. These investments are largely completed in months, which is why the government decided on the second phase, in which 26 swimming pools and 20 gymnasiums will be built, also serving the health of Hungarian children. In addition, we welcome diabetic organisations twice this week in EMMI, we hold consultations in several areas - education and health - so that we can help Hungarian diabetic people and families of diabetic children as much as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-20	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. My fellow Members, please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, It follows from the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Lebanon, of the other part, and the T/17779 publishing the protocols attached thereto. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/17779 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 181 unanimous votes in favour. A.T.A. on the entry of goods into the temporary importation procedure T/17993 on the publication of the Customs Convention on Cards and its amendment. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is T/17993/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1793 accepts it. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 184 unanimous votes in favour. Dear Parliament, It follows that the 2005 LII on the ratification and publication of the agreements signed between the Republic of Hungary and the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man and the dependent or associated Caribbean areas with a view to implementing the obligations laid down in Council Directive 2003/48/EC on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. T/1777. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/177778 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 178 votes in favour, with five abstentions. [[10.00]] It follows from the 2011 CCIX on water utility services. T/1799. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1799 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 153 votes in favour, with 31 abstentions. It follows that H/17788 on the extraordinary settlement of claims by victims of the Czeglédy case. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. H/17788/7. H/17788/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts H/17788/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/17788/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 148 votes to three, with no abstentions. The 2013 LXXXVII on the transparency of the campaign costs of the election of Members of Parliament follows. T/18003. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1803/7. and the summary report by T/1803/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1803/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 184 votes to 2, with 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that T/1803/10. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1803/10. The Single Proposal No 1 requires a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the part of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 184 votes in favour, 2 against and 4 abstentions. We are now deciding on the part of the single proposal that requires a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1803/10. The single proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the part of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 182 votes in favour, 2 against and 1 abstention. The following is the T/177784 on the Waczław Felczak Foundation. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17784/5. T/17784/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/17784/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 155 votes to 26, with four abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17784/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 154 votes in favour, 27 against and 5 abstentions. Next up is T/18005 on the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/18005. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 155 votes in favour, no votes against, with 31 abstentions. It follows that T/16168 on the amendment of individual laws necessary to better protect children will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/16168/11. and the summary report is T/16168/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 5, the LMP proposed to maintain Amendment No 5 and Jobbik's proposed amendment No 3. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 5 is proposed by Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 126 against and without abstention. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Sebestyén. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 33 votes in favour, 152 against and 2 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/16168/11. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 184 votes in favour, with three abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/16168/14. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 182 votes in favour, with three abstentions. The 2011 CIX on the Hungarian Academy of Arts follows. T/17999. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/17999 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 147 votes in favour, 38 against and without abstentions. Following is T/17782 on the implementation procedures to be implemented by the tax authority. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17782/5. and its summary report is T/17782/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[10.10]] We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1778/25. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 124 votes to 31, with 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1778/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 125 votes to 30, with 30 abstentions. It follows that T/1799 on the implementation of the Union Customs Code should be amended accordingly. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17991/5. T/17991/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/17991/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 151 votes in favour, no votes against, with 34 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17991/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 154 votes in favour, no votes against, with 29 abstentions. Following is T/17994 on the rules of taxation. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17994/10. T/1794/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed that amendments Nos 3, 4 and 5 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 33 votes in favour, 123 against and 29 abstentions. Amendment 4 is proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 10 votes in favour, 124 against and 51 abstentions. Amendment 5 is proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 37 votes in favour, 124 against and 23 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1799/10. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 123 votes in favour, 32 against and 29 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1794/13. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 124 votes to 31, with 29 abstentions. Following is the T/17995 on the tax administration procedure. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17995/9. T/17995/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 4. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 4 is proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 30 votes in favour, 125 against and 29 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/17995/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 124 votes to 29, with 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17995/12. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 123 votes to 30, with 30 abstentions. It follows that T/17998 on the amendment of laws and certain other laws relating to the entry into force of the General Administrative Regulation Act. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17998/5. T/17998/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1798/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 145 votes to 31, with 8 abstentions. In view of the fact that the Parliament has just accepted the summary amendment proposal, the parts of the submitted bill requiring a qualified majority have been abandoned. Therefore, in the final vote, we will decide according to the rules of the simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1798/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 146 votes in favour, 29 against and 9 abstentions. It follows that T/17776 on the reduction of the social contribution tax and on the amendment of the related legislation will follow. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17776. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 155 votes in favour, 27 against and without abstentions. It follows that the 1996 CXXVI on the use of a specific part of personal income tax according to the taxpayer's provisions follows. T/17957 amending Act T/17957 Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17957/8. and a summary report by T/17957/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the MSZP Group proposed to maintain Amendment 4. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 4 is proposed by László Szakács and Attila Mesterházy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 43 votes in favour, 118 against and 23 abstentions. [[10.20]] As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/17957/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 130 votes to two, with 51 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17957/11. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 130 votes to two, with 51 abstentions. It follows from the 1996 LXXXI on corporate tax and dividend tax. T/18006. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1806/6. and the summary report by T/1806/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1806/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 126 votes in favour, 33 against and 25 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1806/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 126 votes in favour, 33 against and 25 abstentions. It follows that T/18007 on the amendment of certain tax laws affecting sports enterprises will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/18007/7. and the summary report by T/18007/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1807/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 124 votes to 59, with no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1807/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 124 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstentions. It follows from the 2012 CXLVII on the specific tax for small companies and the small company tax. T/18008. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1808/7. and a summary report by T/1808/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 8 votes in favour, 122 against and 53 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1808/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 124 votes to five, with 55 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1808/10. A single proposal. Please, let's go. Fuck me! [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 146 votes to five, with 32 abstentions. The 2010 LXXV on simplified employment follows. T/18009. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1809/6. and the summary report by T/1809/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1809/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 182 votes in favour, not without a vote, with two abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1809/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the single proposal by 183 votes in favour. Next, the 1990 XCIII on levies. T/18010 on the amendment of the Act Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1801/7. and the summary report by T/1810/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 42 votes in favour, 119 against and 24 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1810/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 125 votes to five, with 55 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/18010/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 123 votes to five, with 56 abstentions. It follows that T/15813. on the implementation of the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2016 Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/15813. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 123 votes in favour, 61 against and without abstention. [[10.30]] The next step will be the T/17872 on the National Media and Infocommunications Authority's single budget for 2018. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17872. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of questions by independent MEP Péter Kónya to the European Public Prosecutor's Office H/17747 A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 62 votes in favour, 119 votes against and no abstentions. I ask you if you will include the subject series T/17956 on the amendment of Act C of 2017 on Hungary's central budget for 2018 to make the most effective anticancer medicines available to everyone by Attila Mesterházy and László Szakács, MSZP, Members, and to restore the functioning of the general medical system. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 64 votes in favour, 117 against and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by representatives of Bertalan Tóth and Gergely Bárándy, MSZP, H/17684 on the elimination of arbitrary, unfair or unreasonable discrimination between civil society organisations. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 43 votes in favour, 115 against and 23 abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles on the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry by János Volner, Jobbik and his fellow Members on Fidesz's campaign expenditures H/17595. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 65 votes in favour, 116 against and without abstention. I ask you whether you will be included in the series of articles T/17683 on the amendment of certain laws by Mr Schmuck, Mr LMP, Member, to improve the situation of pensioners. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 61 votes in favour, 121 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. Thank you for your cooperation. I'm ordering a two-minute break. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members, who are unable to attend the next plenary session of this House to leave the Chamber in silence and, if possible, in a short time, to continue our work. Please take your seats, we will continue our work. Dear Parliament, Once they have taken their place, a general debate will follow on the bill on the amendment of laws relating to administrative bureaucracy and simplification of certain administrative procedures until closure. The government referral is T/18320. Number [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Before I give the floor, Minister, I would like to ask my fellow Member once again to discuss the important agenda of the Group meeting outside the Chamber. Thank you very much, thank you for your understanding. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2017-11-14-21	Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In short, I would like to inform the Parliament of the content of the motion. Before I do this, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when the government started to redeploy public administration, public administration and public bureaucracy, it has set itself three objectives: make it simpler, cheaper and faster to operate public administration, organise the state and provide services to citizens. We have taken several steps in this regard. In 2016, we amended 108 laws and related regulations with your help in the first semester. The main objective of this step was to reduce the duration of administration and to introduce acceleration. The most important innovation of this procedure was the introduction of the so-called so-called so-called procedure, the establishment of an 8-day deadline for simple cases and the introduction of a pending decision. In essence, we have been able to make substantial progress in terms of deadlines, which shows that if we look at all the cases, i.e. more than 20 million cases, which Hungarian voters handle in one year with the Hungarian state, the deadlines for administration have decreased significantly. Today, the Hungarian state can manage 60-70 percent of cases within 8 days. We've ruled out an extension. We have excluded or restricted the possibility of suspending administrative procedures and reduced 120 administrative procedures by a total of 25 per cent in order to speed up, and we have introduced 25 activities where we have changed the simple notification procedure instead of prior authorisation, which is a reverse thinking compared to thirty years of administration: we do not give permission, but we take note of the notification of the case to the client. Much more trust in the client. In the second half of 2016, 113 laws were amended, essentially reducing change reporting procedures, special legislative amendments to certain procedures and public affairs. We have implemented a deregulation of 73 laws. [[10.40]] On 1 January 2017, 44 new laws and related regulations entered into force, including the home address notification or the introduction of the so-called automatic decision-making procedure. The seizure of the vehicle was also a case that became faster under this measure. As I said, the objective was not only to accelerate, but also to make procedures cheaper. In 2015 and 2016, we started a wide-ranging public consultation, with some five hundred thousand clients expressing their views on what we should make cheaper. In 2016, we left 10 billion forints for the citizens who handled the case, which means that so many fees and fees did not have to be paid to the Hungarian State. As of 1 March 2017, the fee for twenty official proceedings ceased, with another HUF 2 billion reduced the fees and fees that voters have to pay. These included measures to reduce the burden on individuals and to reduce the burden on entrepreneurs. In addition to speeding up and making it cheaper, some 270 government windows have been developed in the country for simplification. In 2016, government windows dealt with 12 million cases of 10 million 800 thousand clients at 270 locations. The affairs of administration, so what can be done in a government window, that's 1500 cases. When we started building the steering windows, that was a few dozen years ago. I would also like to mention that faster, simpler and cheaper work is conditional on the state officials' faculty being paid. To this end, we have made a 50% wage increase and a significant staff correction. The numbers have decreased, and the wages have increased. There was about 15 percent decrease in the number of employees and 50 percent increase in the salaries of employees in the state officials' office. What we now have from Parliament is T/18320. We are asking for the support of new procedures to be simplified, cheaper or faster, as part of the legislative proposal No. As you know, with the support of the legislation, the Parliament has set the government the goal of establishing a home creation programme in Hungary, introducing the institution of the family home creation discount. Our proposal, our bill, partly by amending the tax law for real estate purchases over HUF 30 million, by subtracting the CSOK grant from the total amount and thus not reaching HUF 30 million, we will grant tax exemption, asset relief, and we will make the procedures that are absolutely necessary for the application of the CSOK requirement free of charge. I also think it is very important that the digitisation of the Hungarian state is ongoing. We are now spending 170 billion forints to implement the electronic administration of cases, i.e. the digitisation of public administration, the electronicisation of state procedures. One of the important consequences of this will be the electronicisation, digitisation of registers and the interconnection and accessibility of these registers, I ask the legislator to support them. I think that if 1500 cases can be dealt with in 270 government windows today, then an administrator should be given the opportunity to use his IT tool to see in all records, for example, what assets, what vehicles, what other support he has for the social claim applicant, the social assistance applicant. Thus, the State can function well if the data available to the State can, of course, be used without restriction by public officials working in the government window, while complying with all data protection laws. I'm talking family support, job search records, nature conservation authority cases, personal data and address records. So it is very important that, if the case is being handled in one place, it should not only be a complaint, it should be an application, it should also be a content administration; the condition of the content administration is that the administrator has access to all the state data and can see all the state records. We also aim to merge the registers. In Hungary, data on the registration of the vehicle, the disappearance of the vehicle, the registration of the vehicle are shared. Here, for example, we propose that there should be a single register and, in general, I propose that the digitisation of public administration and the electronic administration should be one of the objectives of interoperability of registers, which I believe to be significantly simpler, faster and better administration. We are also proposing in the legislative package that the Act on Business Registration, Company Publicity, Court of Justice and winding-up should be amended by the Parliament in order to simplify the administration of companies' lives. Here we could go back to why we started modernising public administration, reducing bureaucracy. Not only is it because taxpayers are increasingly satisfied with what the state provides as a service, but also because one of the important conditions for the competitiveness of the economy can be the functioning of the state, state bureaucracy. We have identified a number of areas, such as the tax procedure or indeed the European Union, where public bureaucracy needs to be reduced. This was the case of construction, and this was the issue of the business register, and we would like to take another step to simplify matters relating to the registration and registration of companies. We have a similar proposal for water utility associations and other entities. The whole point of the proposal is therefore to make the administration simpler, faster and cheaper, and we will continue to propose to Parliament amendments to the laws that make it easier for state officials to deal with, and this will make the lives of voters easier as far as possible. I believe that one of the conditions for good governance is that public administration, state apparatus, state bureaucracy work well. I would like to thank the factions for their correct opinions and correct proposals, and I would also like to thank them for their support for the majority of our efforts so far. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-22	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to have keynote speeches. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-14-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, Fidesz and KDNP are committed to cutting red tape. This is demonstrated by the fact that the fourth of the legislative proposals simplifying administrative procedures is already being discussed. It is important that the government does not only one-off, ad hoc, but also continuous, efficient and systemic bureaucracy cuts in public administration. This objective has been supported and supported by the Fidesz Group so far, and will continue to support this objective. Ladies and gentlemen, The general objective of the bill is to amend the legal requirements for certain administrative procedures, to facilitate the application of public law and to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses. It is an administrative burden to fulfil all the obligations arising from a legal requirement that makes the administration of citizens and businesses difficult or even complex. Any amendment that makes administrative procedures shorter and more efficient while maintaining professional expectations is in order to simplify administration. The simplification of administrative procedures means facilitating contacts between the authorities responsible for cooperation, as well as the establishment of appropriate liaison systems. In addition to the above, fees and charges for official procedures are also considered administrative, and therefore one of the important objectives of the Government is to review these charges, these charges and, as a result, to reduce or eliminate them within the framework of bureaucracy reduction. I would like to stress that the bill also aims to reduce unnecessary burdens in areas of bureaucracy which do not necessarily appear before citizens, but which, however, unduly slow down and complicate the handling of the matter. These include, for example, unnecessary and lengthy communication between public authorities within the public administration system. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill also provides a solution to this problem, since if the authority needs data that is included in the register of other public bodies, it is not necessary to ask the other authority on the basis of the proposal, but can be accessed by electronic means quickly, easily and easily. [[10.50]] Of course, the traditional bureaucracy reduction measures, which reduce the administrative burden on citizens and, in particular, their financial burden, cannot be excluded. In the event that the State grants benefits to citizens for the purpose of achieving a goal, it is necessary to reduce or remove administrative obstacles to the use. In this spirit, the tax and fee exemption system for the administration of the use of family home support, as provided for in this bill, should be highlighted. We welcome this measure. The proposal also substantially amends the Company Procedure Act. The amendments remove the unjustified administrative burden identified in the company procedure and ensure that customers are able to manage their business more quickly and efficiently. Simplifying company procedures with company formation, company change registration or even company restructuring is an essential prerequisite for improving competitiveness. One of the test aspects of competitiveness is the speed of procedures for start-ups and changes. In addition, there is a significant advantage in the bill, which is also fully supported by the Fidesz Group, the first successful language examination and in the case of an official procedure for establishing the premium for the graduation exam from a higher level. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support this bill, which aims at abolishing and changing all obligations which constitute an additional burden, which create annoying difficulties and obstacles in the administration of citizens and businesses, and which can be amended by a smooth and efficient administrative administration. As I said, the Fidesz Group fully supports the bill tabled, and we also recommend it to the Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-24	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-11-14-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The Ket. the Act on General Administrative Rules replacing it and the related amendments to the sectoral legislation will enter into force on 1 January 2018. We find it amazing that the law on general administrative regulations, namely the Law on Ákr. and the Law on Administrative Rules, which will enter into force on 1 January 2018, and the laws related thereto, has been touched for many times. This once again confirms our conviction that reform of administrative procedural law is premature, semi-finished, and, more than that, will create extraordinary difficulties for both the law-abiding and the law-seeking citizens. The bill on the transitional rules for sanctions for administrative infringements and on the amendment of certain laws and repealing certain laws in the context of the reform of administrative procedural law was also submitted by the government, and the rapporteur of Parliament was also János Lázár, and both were submitted on the same day on 7 November. It is incomprehensible that both proposals have been changed by Ákr. the text of the Annex to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. What could be the reason for this amazing legislative spree? Why do I have to rewrite the Akr month after month. His words, if the government so proudly testified to the Ark. The success of your codification? And what will happen to the constitutional rule of preparation if the text is constantly overwritten? The Parliament recently adopted, on 16 May 2017, an amendment to the law relating to the entry into force of the Act on General Administrative Rules and the Act on Administrative Rules. However, it seems that this law has not been drawn up in sufficient depth, since many laws have been trying to establish consistency with the Law on Ákr. and the Law on Administrative Procedure. Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council No 77 and 78 It is proposed to prevent the entry into force, and another 40 laws have been found, in which it is also proposed to fit. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] It is amazing what the government is doing legally, and it can be seen that the function of ensuring the coherence of the legal system has long since eluded the judicial portfolio. There are no amendments, no number of amendments, which shall be kept together at the most by the need to lay down rules which must already be in force on 1 January 2018. Selling this package as a reduction in bureaucracy and ease of procedure is ridiculous, and the government is already trying to pull the many skins off the administrative burden reduction, but it is in fact trying to cover up the immeasurable incompetence with which the Ákr. And to the public. He worked in preparing Pp and related legislative packages. Let's face it, besides some honeycombs, legal system welding takes place, and, if you will, the judicial portfolio failed to perform the task, and now János Lázár has to storm, and he is trying to achieve legal coherence at the last minute. It will do so by voting on this bill in December, and the new provisions will apply from 1 January 2018. The urgency knows no bounds, because they bring the correction of the biggest bloopers into force as early as 31 December. A large part of the proposal is to facilitate contacts between the authorities responsible for cooperation. Typically, they provide direct access to their own records, so it may be hoped that they do not always request the completion of forms of unbelievable length. It is a shame that, after eight years of bullshit, the government undertakes to create an IT basis for the various authorities to communicate with each other and to save unnecessary administrative requests with access to their records. The emergence of automatic decision-making can be supported, but it can be said as a criticism that there are very few possibilities and ways to do so. The fact that there will be no appeal in a number of proceedings, where there is no appeal to administrative decisions, cannot obviously be sold as a reduction in administrative burden. Therefore, there is no change, and it cannot be called customer-friendly that the client can seek redress in the courts instead of in the public administration. It is hardly possible to call the number of provisions that exclude the possibility of electronic contact in individual administrative procedures as a matter of principle. This is ridiculous in a number of proceedings, such as the authorisation procedure for the acquisition of property by a foreign person. Unification and unification of public sub-registrations in the age of information technology does not in itself result in a substantial reduction in administrative burden. It is also sad that the government has only just recognised the need to reform the legislation on company procedures. The proposal clearly shows the desperate intention of simplifying the rules of company proceedings. As this issue is a fundamental competitiveness criterion, there is plenty of work to be done by the government in this area. The scope of the 12-page amendment is a good indication that the government has hidden amendments in this package, although many packages with competitiveness labels have already been present at Parliament, but these amendments have not been included. It is quite amazing that it is necessary to wait so many years for the data of natural persons in the register to be accurate and up-to-date as a result of cooperation with public registers. Anachronist is affected by the statement of reasons that the establishment of data link between registers has now become timely. Moreover, given the nature of the subject matter, it would have been more appropriate to draft a separate bill amending the law on company disclosure, court proceedings and winding-up. A similar criticism can be expressed in relation to the modification of the parachuted public procurement legislation in the package. For 14 pages, the Law on Public Procurement, Kbt, is amended. Most of all, there is a redeployment of the remedy system, although on 7 November, János Lázár himself made use of a separate legislative initiative by the Kbt. with respect to: We can sigh because there will finally be electronic communication between the Public Procurement Arbitration Committee and customers. [[11.00]] It is a serious step backwards in the application of foreign law to leave the judicial wallet out of the registrar procedure. Why is that? Instead of the provisions requiring the Minister for Justice to seek his opinion, the amendment of the Act on the Civil Registration Procedure is defined as a general provision that the Registrar, the civil society body and the civil society body designated for carrying out the domestic registration process, if the application of foreign law in the context of the civil status event arises, and if the basis of the registration is a decision of a foreign court or other authority, the Minister for Justice may ask for the opinion of the Minister for Justice. The proposal is very lakonic about simplified official controls and empowers government regulation, although this legal institution should at least provide the legal framework itself, because this legal institution will be created without constitutional foundations. On this basis, ladies and gentlemen, the MSZP Group will vote 'no' when deciding on the proposal, as we did not agree with the establishment of a general administrative statute, administrative procedure and any other reform proposals related thereto. In our opinion, such changes to the legal system would have taken far more preparation time for the law enforcement authorities than would have been until 1 January 2018. And the law-abiding citizen can only blink that he will hardly manage his case without legal qualifications or legal representation. Therefore, once again, the MSZP faction will not support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-14-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-14-27	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz-KDNP is committed to removing unnecessary burdens and obstacles to administrative procedures, and we are therefore continuing the process of cutting red tape that has started seven and a half years ago. The bill aims to address issues related to the functioning of the public administration as well as customer expectations at the same time. As a result of easier management of registers, citizens and entrepreneurs will have to obtain fewer documents and the duration of the administrative deadlines will be greatly shortened. Ladies and Gentlemen, In order to reduce the administrative burden and to eliminate multiple records of the same data, certain official records are merged, as records with similar data content in some fields contain in part the same data, which are therefore unnecessary elements of the system of administrative registers. In addition, based on the old structure, it was much more difficult to improve or modify incorrect or changed data in the old, diverse system. However, the pooling of registers will make it easier to obtain relevant information in the relevant field. With these measures, the administrative quality of public administration will be improved, as well as the ability of public authorities to respond to problems. The proposal also substantially amends the Company Procedure Act. The amendments remove an unjustified administrative burden and ensure that customers are able to manage their business more quickly and efficiently. In order to improve Hungary's competitiveness, it is also a priority to simplify company procedures, company formation and change registration issues. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the basis of the bill, the possibility of automatic decision-making will be introduced in specific real estate and fisheries management procedures. On the basis of the automatic decision-making procedure, the authorities shall take their decisions not within 60 days of receipt of the request, not within 30 days, but within 24 hours. The possibility of automatic decision-making helps customers to obtain, as soon as possible, documents and certificates that are typically necessary for non-governmental, typically civilian transactions. Ladies and Gentlemen, It also represents a direct positive change from the citizen's side to the extension of the scope of the exemption. By amending the tax law, freeing public procedures for the application for a family home-building benefit and the tax relief will greatly reduce the administrative burden on the citizens concerned and create a less bureaucratic set of rules than currently. In addition, there is a significant reduction in the administrative procedure for establishing the first successful language examination and the first advanced level of support for the fee for a foreign language graduation exam. Ladies and Gentlemen, In summary, the amendments under the proposal are intended to remove and change obligations which are annoying and hindering the administration of citizens and businesses, and which can be amended and supported by a smooth and efficient administrative administration. On this basis, the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-14-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2017-11-14-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to start by saying what we really mean by cutting red tape. Because in this regard, I think there is a sharp line between the governing parties and the Jobbik. For in this respect, in particular, what we are seeing now, in the current legislative package, and in the part of the legislative package that concerns bureaucracy reduction, are typically merely seeking to remove technical obstacles and to carry out some sort of rationalisation. Let's face it, it was a long time ago. However, we are thinking more clearly about the concept of cutting red tape. That is why we strongly reject the manifestations of bureaucracy on the part of the government as a means to release many from public administration. In this respect, one of the Secretary-General of State has shown itself on several occasions and has spread the public with numbers. He said that more than a million people live in the Hungarian state, this is a huge number, and this burden must be removed. When he said that more than a million people live in the Hungarian state, he thought that there were civil servants, state officials, government officials, civil servants, employees in public companies and other workers who received their salaries either way or from the state. These people, please respectfully, do not live from the Hungarian state, but live for the Hungarian state, they live for the public. We also call them, for example, the first group I just told you, public servants, because their entire lives were dedicated to the service of the public. We certainly don't think these people are too many. In Hungary today, by the way, only to correct Mr. State Secretary ex post - not for the first time, but for the most of us - 860 thousand people are employed in the state sphere. So by far, we can't talk about more than a million. It is likely that it included those who are employees of public companies. In any case, if we look at who we call a public servant, see doctors, teachers, paramedics, nurses, firefighters, I don't know, librarians and so on, we cannot say that there are too many people in Hungary. [[11.10]] In fact, the problem with public services is constantly, in terms of ensuring public services, that these people are too few. The same is true of civil servants, state officials, government officials, that there is too much workload in a lot of offices. Working in so-called related jobs, one person replaces a number of public servants with his work, and this incredible strain is far from the material appreciation they would otherwise need. See, for example, former government officials who work in county government offices, as of 1 January, they have been called state officials, but they cannot receive the wages which are otherwise due to state officials. This is an extremely unfair situation. So if we are talking about cutting red tape, then we think that we should first of all appreciate those who take bureaucracy, public administration every day, and pay them in a way that makes them motivated, and enthusiastic and otherwise competent, because they have expertise and carry out their task. And already this attitude will help citizens' day-to-day administration. And the other is, now from the citizen's side, a reduction in bureaucracy is to bring the task as close as possible to the citizens. Today, in Hungary, about 70 percent of the number of settlements under 2000 covers all settlements and about 65-70 percent of Hungary's total territory. In these settlements, it is in principle only possible to deal with cases in a joint municipal office, so in many cases it is not in the locality, but it is necessary to travel somewhere to meet a public official in order to take part in the bureaucracy, so to say, in some way, so that you can start doing your own business. It would perhaps be the first step towards cutting red tape if we gave Hungary today the opportunity of viability and service to deal with matters of substance everywhere. I know that this costs a great deal of money, and the first and most important idea of cutting red tape on the part of the government is to make the Hungarian state cheaper, but I think that in the long term, the social benefit is that if we try to expand the public service system as much as possible, we will bring the administration as close as possible to the citizens. Indeed, the social benefits of this will be significantly measured, and otherwise the social cost of trying to concentrate harshly will be much more significant, and this will cause extreme damage in the closer term overall. So this is basically our approach to cutting red tape. Therefore, in general, we cannot support proposals such as those submitted by the government now, while recognising that there are extremely important steps and measures, such as standardising and pooling access to data records. Indeed, a Gogol satire and bulgakovi is absurd sometimes when you try to make a case. I was just telling one of my fellow Members here how strange it is that every year a mother with more than three children has to prove to the school that she still has three or more children, so she can receive a certain allowance in mass catering and textbook care, as well as a separate student status certificate from educational institutions in order to receive family support in the family support system. And even though this has to be handled separately in the Dean's Offices, then we have to go to the central family support office separately, and we have to do this separately. We are talking about something that is real, which is electronically recorded everywhere, otherwise it is only a comb-in, so these unnecessary and annoying circles can safely be eliminated. That's what we're talking about in the bill. We can obviously support this part in its entirety. There is one more thing that I would like to discuss in particular, and which was not mentioned in the ministerial expoze, although it is a very important new element, and this is the expansion of the water management law in the sense that government agencies will now have authority over water utility companies. Moreover, the water utility companies have so far been controlled by both the legal authority of the company court and by the water administration at the level of professional control. So, in a sense, this option was provided, already covered on two sides, but at the same time we had to see that, in the case of the development of water utilities from the KEOP investments carried out in the 2007-2013 programming cycle, the control and supervision were not ensured on several sides, but for some reason it did not work. For example, there were clear government statements on the part of the Minister about how these KEOP investments should be carried out in a fair manner, and how to act transparently towards the public, but these authorities pointed at each other, and in the face of clearly illegal situations, even though they saw what was going on, they turned their heads, closed their eyes, so that they didn't have to do anything by accident. We hope that this new authority control powers, which the government agencies are about to receive, will now result in a substantial change. Allow me to read a few settlements only recently, where we have encountered problems of this kind, such as Nagybajom, Tamási, Iregszemcse, Simontornya, Kistelek, Baks, Christmas Day, Bükkönd, the whole Tápiómente, and so on, this could be considered for a long time. A series of crimes, namely the fact that despite the fact that the Hungarian State has provided 100% of the support for these water utilities development through the KEOP operational programme, despite the fact that the local authorities and the water utility companies in the role of co-investors have collected additional contributions from the members whose property was affected by the development of water utilities. This was sometimes a contribution of hundreds of thousands of forints, and they did not want to account for these members' contributions, and they still do not want to account for them. In the last case, I received the letter yesterday, it's really a folk absurd, so let me share this little colorful account with you. This was in the village of Nagybajom, where the mayor also plays the role of the head of the water utility company. When we would have asked him for information as a public interest, in some sense suffering from split-ups, he said that he could not publish these documents as mayor, according to the government decree, when the contributions of interest relating to the liquidation of the water utility company were aggregated, the register of documents and a lot of things that were necessary for the liquidation of the water utility company. The fact that, as president of the water utility company, he could otherwise publish his clarity did not disturb the mayor's wife. Of course, and obviously we'll write to him again, and we'll write to him again if we have to, we'll enforce our request for data in the public interest by court. In any event, it only follows that these municipalities clearly do not intend to account for their integrity, although these public contributions have been used in a rather controversial manner. I very much hope, Minister, that this step will provide substantial help to the population. Imagine that Minister Seszták had a report before the Committee on Budgets last week, and he said that when I confronted him with this problem in general: "Well, is there really such a problem?" Were there such abuses in KEOP investments? Now that I've told him that, he's gonna look into it. [[11.20]] So I respectfully report to this House that the managing authority of KEOP is currently the NFM. So if, somewhere, the NFM would have had to match the threads and, as a managing authority, it obviously has a right to follow-up, so after the closure of a project in the next five years, at least it must be able to enforce the law and the truth throughout the next five years, despite this, the Minister was surprised that there were such problems. I find this attitude quite amazing, but not only in this respect, it was obviously an amazing attitude, in other respects, but it does not belong here. In any case, if he is not able to perform this task by running his own governing authority, I very much hope that, then, behold, here will be the role of government agencies, and this will be resolved. Let me add one thing because of the shortness of time, and my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre will report on the other issues to you. It is a very big question how long it will take for these water utilities to be wound up. Because what you put in here as an extension of the water management law is about your new authority. But one thing is still unclear as to how long it will take to close. It is above discussion, and you have written that within 15 days, if it has not been established previously, the court must appoint the members of the clearing committee, but it has not been stated how long this clearing committee will have to make substantive decisions and how long it will have to close the settlement procedure. Thank you very much, my time is up. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-14-30	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, notary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to speak with representatives. Congressman Csaba Gyüre of the Jobbik Group has applied. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-14-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, According to the explanatory memorandum, we have before us a bill designed to ease the application of public law, reduce administrative burdens for citizens and businesses, reduce administrative time limits, reduce or eliminate charges, reduce charges for procedures, eliminate parallel records, strengthen competitiveness and introduce automatic decision-making. So they've all come up with something that I think everyone agrees with and no one wants these things to go unpunished. In itself, what a law states in a statement of reasons and what its real content is may not always be the same. Who wouldn't want to ease the application of the law? Who wouldn't want to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses? We talk about it all the time. Indeed, in this law, there are wordings or parts that really reduce administrative burdens, really reduce financial expenditure on the part of citizens, and indeed speed up in some cases. We do not have a problem with that, but my fellow Member Mrs Hegedűs said in his previous speech that we would not expect these minor technical changes in the reduction of bureaucracy, but, more specifically, the Hungarian bureaucracy could be reduced many things. We hear the examples of Western Europe, how simple they can handle, how long they have an administration, how long they can get a business permit, a building permit, how long they can start a company, and we certainly have efforts to do so as soon as possible, and obviously we can give very positive examples of company registration in Hungary, for example. However, overall, I think that today an average Hungarian person, a Hungarian citizen, and a Hungarian enterprise will say that there is an unparalleled bureaucracy in Hungary and that there is no need for such a degree. The fact that we're touching the I.D.s now, and we've touched them before to make it tax-free, that's still accepted. We didn't understand why so many I.D.s have to be issued every year, who's throwing them at them, or I don't know what they're doing with them, that they often leave them every year, that we always give them a free new one, that would be acceptable once a year. We very much welcome the fact that the public authorities' procedures for applying for housing subsidies are free, because I think that the aim of all parliamentary parties is to reduce costs in such cases when the housing of Hungarian citizens needs to be resolved. The fact that they also become free of charge in certain condominium procedures is obviously also related to housing is also acceptable. In the procedures for the first successful examination of languages and for the award of the first high-level exam in foreign languages, freeness is also very important, I just ask why now, because it was the Jobbik Movement for Hungary who had already made its proposals in this regard four years ago, it was my colleague Gergely Farkas who said this four years ago. We have tabled amendments and proposals on this issue several times and have not yet been adopted. We are pleased that this better proposal has finally been heard, but we find it strange that when we proposed this, we have received a response to the unrealization of this which seems to have been eliminated and now feasible. So there are obviously positive things in it, but there are also negative things in it, and I would like to talk about it. The Public Procurement Act is also largely amended or amended on several points in this legislation; which would not be a problem in itself, since if we could speed up and simplify the procedure in public procurement and reduce the administrative burden, we would say that we fully agree with it, but in this case, I think that this is not just the case when this draft legislation is included here. If we compare the existing legislative text and the current amendment, then we can also see an interesting fact in it, namely this 137. § 3 of the current law on public procurement, which is the current law 68. Paragraph 1 of this Article. What's this about? This is about when public procurement can be declared null and void, when a public procurement will be null and void, in which way the public procurement procedure will be implemented by circumventing the law, or at all, this procurement procedure will not be established and this contract will be concluded which would otherwise have been covered by the Public Procurement Act. What's happened so far? According to the legislation so far, it was possible for the court to declare it valid with effect from the date of conclusion of the contract if it was an important public interest; in this case, the court had retroactive effect. What's happening now? This part of the amendment leaves, leaving out that the court can declare this contract valid with retroactive effect, but only the text says that if there is an outstanding public interest in the performance of the contract, it will not be void. But who's gonna determine that? The government? Will the Ministry be able to determine that? What kind of rubber rule is that? Can everyone plead that? On this basis, procurement procedures can be avoided in full in the future, and there will be no need to carry out the public procurement procedure, because we will only say that this is an extremely important public interest, and that we will avoid the way forward that has given citizens or everyone a guarantee that it is not a sham, it is not a sham, it is not a corruption procedure, because the court has been able to tell. Now this has been miraculously omitted from this procedure, in this case the courts will not have anything to do with it under the law, and will not say, so that the procurement procedures will be much easier to avoid, much less to render void a public procurement procedure if it has been in conflict with lawlessness. When Hungary is on the world list of corruption, when Hungary is in the 24-25th position in the European Union, in the current 28 Member States, I think that Hungary should not create laws that would continue to serve the power of corruption in Hungary, it should continue to support it. [[11.30]] I think that there would be no place for this paragraph here in any form, and if this is left in the text of the law, it is in no way acceptable, because we believe that it will strengthen corruption in Hungary. Not to mention the increased control of certain EU aids, there is a much greater focus on whether these will be placed in the right place, whether they will be legally applied for, and the allocation of tender money. Thus, it may even be feared that if these tenders are checked during the procurement procedures and found not to be correct, these funds will be recovered and Hungary will receive much less money. So they're seriously hurt here, and I think it's the country's interests, too. Another thought about this law, which has already been indicated by other fellow Members, is related to the Akr. I now see legislation taking place in Parliament and on the part of the Ministry of Justice, which confirms that we are constantly touching and constantly changing legislation. It is amazing when we change legislation so that it is often not even in force, we already touch it, we adapt it, every week, every two weeks and every month, the laws that need to be amended are introduced. This is also one of these legislation, which has been amended several times since we adopted it recently. This shows, in all cases, that there is a problem with legislative practice, there is a problem in the Ministry of Justice, there is no properly prepared legislation, there is no proper coordination of these laws. In this amendment, too, many points point to this. On this basis, I think that there are things that are forward, there are certain parts that are positive, there are parts that are eligible, but there are also some that are totally unacceptable. I think that this legislation is not eligible in this form. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-14-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I'll ask who among the Secretary of State would like to respond to what has been said. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács reporting.]] Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-11-14-33	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I also claim, as Minister János Lázár said, that this law is important to the country, that it has a real reduction in bureaucracy, and that the results so far cannot be questioned. To give you some statistics, the number of suspended procedures - because only law can suspend proceedings - has decreased from 97 thousand to 26 thousand; this means 73 percent decrease. It's all gonna shorten the procedure. The fact that we have cut the procedural deadlines by 25 percent in several significant procedures is a service for citizens. Or the CSOK, on which, by the way, I thank the fellow Members for their recognition, represents 1.3 billion savings for citizens only in the levy and we have already reduced the expenditure side in previous procedures. I thank Mr Bárándy very much for his recognition of the content contained in the law. It must be said that this legislation is continuous legislation, that we have the Ark. and administrative civil procedure, which means that sectoral rules must also be adapted to them. I recognise that the preparation deadline is a little short, but the framework law itself is well known for a long time, the main procedures have long been known, and the sectoral rules to be adapted could be introduced into the system after a long preparation, since there is a basis and an increase in the procedures of the different sectors. The legislative part on company proceedings is similar in the bill. It's part of a process, it's happened before. We have included our new bureaucracy reduction proposals in the proposal according to another practice required by life. The Ministry of Justice is not excluded from the birth certificate, given the opportunity. So I think that this is not a reduction in the level of protection of previous procedures, as we have recently called it, the possibility is in it, and the Ministry of Justice is not excluded. And the law, adopted by the Parliament, creates the possibility of introducing official controls with a government decree, because the problem is that the legislation itself is moving slower, but if we authorize the controls with government regulations, it gives us a faster, more flexible opportunity. I would like to turn to the points raised by my fellow Member Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. So far, everyone's been looking for government offices in connection with the procedures for water utility partnerships. We were able to examine whether the decision-making system of the body of representatives was regular, but the court and the water sector mentioned by you had the opportunity to enter, investigate and detect irregularities. I believe that the judicial control or supervision system of the Government Office has been proven in this regard. We also believe that we can act correctly and legally on the basis of this legislative mandate in the future. What I'd like to say about what you told me as a little colorful story about my trouble is that there's a lot of misconceptions in the system. Until 2015, the local government world was not incompatible with the water utility, so the president was legally elected. In 2015, we were the ones who stopped making such an anachronistic difference as to who was in the role, but to have a greater opportunity for the local community to intervene on the side of control in this matter. As for the numbers, Nándor Csepreghy is sitting next to me, my fellow State Secretary, Deputy Minister. I was approached in this case by the fact that you have already made several statements regarding redundancies. He did not talk about prompt and immediate redundancies, but said that, in this EU cycle, if we can go through cutting red tape, if we can introduce electronic administration in a sufficient way, if the procedures are to be faster, we really need fewer workers. The first part of this has already been moved to the background institutions, where some 3,000 people have been cut down and nearly HUF 10 billion has been saved for public finances. We have made a comparison between the number of employees in the public administration and the proportion of public services in the OECD countries and in the EU countries. My fellow Secretary Csepreghy is right on this point that we are in the forefront. Even France, for example, which, by the way, continued its administration in its former colonies. Unfortunately, we don't have colonies and administration there, but I don't think that's the point, and I don't want to quote that here, either historically or in the present situation. I was just saying, as an example, that even in the state sector, there are fewer people working in the country which, by the way, maintained public administration in French Guyana, and I might add. So I think that this will be a long-term solution, but to do so, we need to achieve a full expansion of the electronic administration, only to connect about 300 professional systems electronically in the territorial administration, and to do so comes the important criterion in the law, so that we can run data records together. Because we are talking about integrated governance, against the old 50-70-year-boned sectoral approach, when everyone thought that my house was my castle, and my database, it's mine, and there's no access to it, even if it's more efficient and faster. [[11.40]] This law will also provide the basis for this in the coming period. I believe that the financial appreciation that has taken place in the public sector over the past period is worthy of respect in relation to the country's achievements and recovery from the crisis. Whether it was the rise in salaries in the field of police, education or defence - but I could say the increase of 30 percent at the district offices or government offices - we have not reached the end, I must say. So we agree on this, everyone move forward a little bit, now there will be a step forward in health care and also in the social sphere. I think that this is not the subject of the law, just because it has come up on the part of my fellow Member, that is why I thought I would react to it. It is important that we bring the administration as close as possible to the citizens, which is why we have the integrated customer service, the government window system, which is now practically complete nationwide; we are still building a government window from some document offices to make the service wider. Minister said that more than 1,500 cases can be launched in the system. From January, the electronic administration will also start, so it is possible to deal with matters more widely from home, and I also think that personal contact is important, since more than half of the citizens in Hungary are asking for personal administration as customers and not electronics. There are obviously cultural differences in this, there are opportunities, since the broadband internet programme has been launched, which aims to give citizens the opportunity to do electronic administration everywhere quickly and throughout the country, but we have maintained our 1,000-person administration system, who regularly hold customer receptions in local government offices or so-called joint offices. And if, by the way, the electronic administration expands and expands, it is not on paper or on its laptop that the application is entered into the district office during the month, but becomes operational immediately, since electronic systems will be connected. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this law has indeed included some unspecific bureaucracy reduction elements, in the sense that, as my fellow Member has said, bureaucracy reduction - Kbt. or, where appropriate, other procedures of a different nature - but legislation is one and indivisible in this respect. So any faction can go through all the legal rules until the vote, it can be added with a motion for amendment, or it can be taken away where appropriate, and in all these respects, the possibilities of Members are unlimited. I'm asking you to take advantage of these options. And if I can change the positive aspect - because it is the most important feature of this bill - the opinion of the factions, please consider that, in the final vote, they do support - as before - the government programme for cutting red tape. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The presentation submitted by our fellow Members János Lázár, Lajos Kósa and Mónika Dunai Fidesz T/18307. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Mr. President, excuse me, my card is still being detected by the system. I've been on the board all this time.]] Thank you very much. But now it's Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, so they're gonna restore her time and you can say it right now. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-11-14-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Electronic procedural systems are emerging in an increasing number of areas of public administration. Hungarians can handle many of their official cases electronically through the customer gate system. Individuals receive tax returns made by NAV by electronic means, and the subject range of this service is constantly expanding. Public procurement procedures must not be excluded from modernisation. Public procurement is generally expected to be spent in a verifiable, transparent and genuine competition. At the same time, there is a legitimate expectation that public procurement will be simpler and faster from the perspective of the participants in the procedures. This is the dual requirement of the bill that has just been tabled. As set out in the new EU public procurement directives, Hungary should also establish a system for the conduct of public procurement in electronic procedures. The provisions of the Directives concerned therefore provide that each Member State should provide for the possibility of sending notices in electronic form, the provision of documents in electronic form and full electronic communication at all stages of the procedure. In accordance with the provisions of the Directive on electronic communication and the exchange of documents, Member States may only provide contact in procurement procedures between contracting authorities and tenderers and candidates by electronic means. Traditional paper communication should be discontinued. This means that, in the future, all data subjects must send the documents electronically to the other party at the time of submission of the tender, at the request of additional information or at the time of the reply. The priority of the e-procurement system is to increase the transparency of public procurement procedures, to carry out procedures more quickly, to simplify procedures, to reduce administrative burdens and to support the monitoring of public procurement procedures. This system was completed within the planned deadline. He's being tested now. In the days, an amendment to a government regulation will be announced, allowing contracting entities to use the system on a voluntary basis as early as mid-November. Dear House, The transition to full electronic communications within the public procurement system is also a burden for tenderers for which it is appropriate to provide for a transitional period. During this period, participants will be able to apply and learn about this new system, but for those who have not yet made the necessary IT investments and developments, the possibility of paper-based communication remains. The Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, representing the interests of many bidders, raised the need to ensure a period of transition that will facilitate their administration and burden during this transition. The relevant EU directives mark 18 October 2018 as the target date for the full implementation of the electronic procurement system. However, as from 18 April 2018, a detailed rule provides for a deadline for Member States to submit the so-called European single procurement document by electronic means. Therefore, the latest deadline for delaying the introduction of the e-procurement system is 15 April 2018, 15 April 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill we submitted before us was submitted on the basis of the initiative of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, in order to provide an appropriate transitional period for all tenderers until the full implementation of the electronic procurement system. [[11.50]] At the same time, the proposal also meets the deadline laid down in the European Union's public procurement directives, which is why I call on my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-14-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will ask Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] Yeah. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-11-14-37	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak and for the opportunity to speak on behalf of the government on an issue which, we believe, based on the historical lessons learned over the last seven years, has contributed significantly to the fact that Hungarian economic operators are now stronger than they were in 2010. It is memorable that in 2010, the second Orbán government took over Hungary in an economic situation where the Hungarian economy was close to the Greek state failure. Hungarian economic operators were exiled in their own country, multinational companies received much more orders and much more opportunities from governments before 2010 than Hungarian businesses from their own government. We wanted to change this situation, and one of the tangible means of resolving this situation was to redefine the system of public procurement in order to enable Hungarian businesses to participate in public-funded investments at least as much as it was dominated by multinational companies before 2010. After seven years of governance, we can say that these results are already reflected in the numbers of economic growth and employment. Public procurement has significantly decreased in terms of the fact that public investment is no longer the sole driver of economic growth in Hungary, and this has been managed to move in a favourable direction for the market, and the share of market investment now falls at least as much into this pan. However, there was also a continuous political debate on public procurement. Before the deadlines set by the European Union, the Hungarian Government introduced the new public procurement directives for the first time, and now, among the first ones in the European Union, it would like to have Parliament adopt a bill that allows public procurement to be used in a proportionate manner, not only by Hungarian economic competitors, but also by Hungarian economic operators, in order to ensure that the public can actually see that the tax forints that we use for various investments are used in a proportionate manner. From the end of October 2018, the e-procurement system will allow all procedures to take place transparently and transparently, and taxpayers will also be convinced that the current government is actually using these funds in the public interest. However, we cannot go without saying, and this has greatly contributed to the economic success of the last seven years, that it is necessary to listen to the needs and requests of Hungarian economic operators from time to time to ensure that domestic regulation is not only good, but also enforceable, so that the search for the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which has already made positive gestures towards economic operators in numerous previous government decisions, has led us once again to push out the mandatory introduction of electronic public procurement, even if only with a minimum deadline, in order to make it possible for Hungarian companies with less room for manoeuvre than Western European companies to be able to catch up on this work and really to kick a substantial ball in investment where public funds are used. The development of the e-procurement system is essentially completed, and the deadline for mandatory use will be exceeded until the Hungarian economic operators have a real chance or a chance to work out the disadvantage they face today against multinational companies. We believe that the new public procurement system, the e-procurement system, will ensure the selection of the right value-for-value service providers at the same time, and can at the same time provide the guarantee that all Hungarian citizens are entitled to receive timely and complete information on how the Hungarian government, the current Hungarian government, manages the public goods entrusted to it. In this spirit, the Hungarian government supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-14-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Here are the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Dunai. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-11-14-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group strongly supports the submitted bill and accepts the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry's initiative by pushing the deadline beyond the possibilities to make it easier, faster and give businesses a longer period of preparation. I do not want to repeat the substance of the bill in my speech as rapporteur. I would like to emphasise once again that the Fidesz Group supports what it says. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-14-40	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Anita Heringes. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-14-41	Thank you very much. Dear House, Under the proposal... [[Intercoms: No sound!]] Is that better?
u2017-11-14-42	I'm gonna need a hand mike put in there, because there's no sound. We'll wait until he gets there. [[It's happening.]] He's here. Thank you very much. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-11-14-43	Thank you very much. Under the proposal, the mandatory introduction of the electronic procurement system will be postponed until 15 April. However, if we were only to provide an opportunity for entrepreneurs who could not prepare for this, this could even be a good proposal, there is only one more point in this proposal: the electronic procurement system operated by the Prime Minister's Office, if it does not become mandatory, but it is optionally available from 1 January, so contracting authorities can decide to request the use of the electronic system. From then on, small entrepreneurs or candidates for public procurement who have not been able to prepare for this can slip out and miss these public procurements. In the case of a Fidesz proposal, it is rarely seen that the justification itself is significantly longer than the norm itself. However, it can be seen here that they were very keen to explain why the mandatory application of the electronic system would be postponed. However, it is difficult to understand why, if there is insufficient preparation time for those concerned, they intend to make it exceptionally applicable. The only thing they achieve is, as I said before, that some smaller candidates are already eliminated in advance, so only the more resourceful, more prepared candidates will remain in the game, the chosen ones. You understand that, don't you, fellow Members? In the course of the election campaign, this will be a very convenient and, of course, elegant solution for targeted public procurement. Therefore, the MSZP cannot support this proposal in this form. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-14-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-14-45	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, With the introduction of e-procurement, the Hungarian government intends to comply with the new EU public procurement directives established in 2014, according to which the introduction of e-procurement was a Member State obligation. e-procurement means the provision of full electronic communication during public procurement procedures, and the aim is to increase transparency as a complement to the main message of the Public Procurement Act, which entered into force in November 2015. In addition to the above, the introduction of e-procurement provides a new tool for market players, which plays a catalyst role in strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises, facilitating their wider entry into the public procurement market. Greater competition will ultimately result in better prices and better quality in the field of public procurement. [[12.00]] Ladies and Gentlemen, On the basis of the EU directives, e-procurement was introduced by central purchasing bodies by 18 April 2017 and will become mandatory for all procurement procedures by 18 October 2018. Hungary undertook to introduce e-procurement with an earlier deadline: 1 February 2017 for central purchasing bodies and 31 December 2017 for other procurement procedures at the latest. Ladies and Gentlemen, The legal deadline has proved to be too narrow, because experience has shown that not only the development of such a complex electronic system, but also the acquisition of its use is a serious task, which requires the legislator to provide adequate time for preparation and study for law enforcement. This is particularly important in the field of public procurement, since a public procurement procedure consists of several interlinked procedural acts linked to fixed deadlines, where it is not permissible to fail to meet the deadlines due to the initial difficulties in using a new system. Ladies and Gentlemen, In view of this, I would like to ask you to support the amendment of the Public Procurement Act T/18307. Bill No. 1. The KDNP parliamentary faction will support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-11-14-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr István Apáti. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-14-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. One of the exceptional proposals that we can support, and I do not understand the position of the MSZP in this regard, so let us not at least put politics where it is not necessarily necessary, not necessarily mandatory, but really try not to impose facts or norms. In fact, the fact that we wanted to introduce electronic administration before the deadline may now be clear to you that it was an overreach in this sense. We wanted to comply with this obligation too quickly, too quickly, or perhaps even with a coercion, which, by the way, I think we are not obliged to do in the world, at least not to fulfil this obligation prematurely. A revaluation has now taken place, which has resulted in this deadline being postponed until next spring, in the middle of spring. I'll tell you honestly, no matter how hard I try to push my brain, I personally don't see any danger in this, so even my famous suspicious nature doesn't point in or lead me in the direction of some kind of dark intention. Not even because, in principle, the manner in which the procurement procedure is conducted or whether it is paper-based or electronic, will determine whether the procurement will be suspected of corruption or whether it is affected by corruption. This will not depend on whether the procedure is paper-based, as otherwise the good has been or has been going over the past decade, we will be able to switch to a full electronic procurement system for almost a decade and a half. It will not depend on this rule and not on the introduction of this system in November, December or April 2018. In this sense, therefore, the importance of this amendment is not too great. Personally, I am very pleased that if Hungarian businesses can breathe and fulfil some of their obligations within the time limits set by the Union, legally, but in a longer period of time, it has been a long period of preparation, since the past good and about a decade and a half was precisely about the excessive coercion that the Balliberal governments had, by the way, put to the top what we wanted to do well before the deadline and even more stringent than the level required by the EU. This has caused significant overruns not only in the amount of bureaucracy, but also in its quality, and it strangles and strangles Hungarian economic life to this day. Just as there are very uneven power relations between Hungarian businesses, large businesses and large enterprises in Western Europe, there is the same difference, let us say, between a large Hungarian enterprise and a micro, small and medium-sized enterprise. If we can further benefit micro, small and medium-sized enterprises by providing them with a longer deadline, then why not, if we can do so, because EU standards provide us with an opportunity to do so? So precisely in businesses where there is a serious shortage of human resources and material resources, and sometimes they try to survive from month to month or year, why not bring such a relief in there. I do not see anything wrong with that, and I do not believe that there should be a front between government and opposition in this regard. However, we already have strong criticism that, unfortunately, since the public procurement channels are spending a thousand billion or several thousand billion dollars a year, whether in connection with investments, purchases, works, service orders, supplies made from their own budget or through EU funding, there is no indication that corruption will be contained, and again I say that curbing, reducing or reducing corruption does not depend on paper or electronic procurement, it does not depend on whether we enter or switch to the full electronic purchasing system at the end of 17 or in April 2018. In this respect, however, we should make serious progress, because if something otherwise destroys Hungarian micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises, then this is precisely the ratio of the usual amount of gift or redistribution to an increasing extent, as there are already tens of percent paybacks to be discussed here. Or, as we can see from the famous case of one of the Fidesz MEPs, you can now, on occasion, implement the reverse 10 percent rule when 10 percent remain for the original purpose, and 90 percent go to party cash and private pockets on reasonable suspicion. It's possible to talk about probable cause, since there's no judgment yet. We will be especially curious about the final judgment that will be given otherwise. In spite of the big words and, where appropriate, the good intentions, there has been very little progress in curbing corruption. But I don't want to get too worked up about it, because it's part of the bone that's been chewed off. However, I would also like to remind you of another serious problem, since we are already in the Public Procurement Act, even if I have a slightly extended interpretation of the framework of this debate, whether in the domestic budget or in the case of procurement from EU funding, of the extremely slow administration and the completely unjustified delays. This deadline change is beneficial, but when payment deadlines are changed and constantly pushed out, they alone are capable of bleeding out Hungarian businesses, especially in the field of works, and, of course, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are the most vulnerable. What I am thinking here, ladies and gentlemen, is that businesses at the bottom of the food chain suffer not only from possible abuses of general contractors, but also in the case of smaller work being taken by themselves, who are, by the way, subcontractors for larger jobs, but, let us say, a smaller or medium-term job, it is very rare that the payment deadlines of 15, 30, 60 or 90 days can be met by beneficiaries and contracting authorities. In many cases, this goes on for several months, six months, nine months. They have to pay the work done, pay the workers, pay the wages and contributions of the workers, and wait for their money, the money they are entitled to, the money they are entitled to under the contract, for which they have already carried out work, supplied or delivered goods, and find that these payments extend in an astonishing scale, completely unwarranted length. We can adopt any professional public procurement law and lower-level regulation, we can push deadlines, we can ease their situation in this area; if unduly overgrown bureaucracy, which is still unduly excessive, destroys them, it will not matter to them that the e-procurement system has to be switched a few months earlier or later, because there will be no one to switch over, or there will be no one to turn over, because these businesses will go bankrupt. Not to mention, if we are already in EU funding and paddle a little in municipal waters, the time limits for the TOP proposals will be tremendously extended. [[12.10]] And this also raises the problem, regardless of electronic or paper procurement, that when our local governments, for example small local authorities, submitted their various applications in May last year and a half ago, I am thinking mainly of works, mostly institution renovation applications, labour costs and labour costs have increased since then due to material prices and labour shortages, so that the budgets laid down at that time can no longer be maintained. And now, exceptionally, they cannot be kept because there are dark intentions for price increases, but because there are indeed market developments, there are real, real, tangible, legitimate reasons for this because of economic processes. In this case, either the implementation of the TOP programme will suffer significant delays and cause major problems, because either there will be no investments, or the amount of these grants will simply have to be slightly increased, and most importantly, if these investments are made, be optimistic, be positive, if the payment is done as the evaluation of these proposals - in Hungarian: a year and a half ago, it is almost almost two years, the second anniversary, or the payment - I guarantee you that the masses of micro and small businesses will be ruined. They're not gonna make it, they can't advance that kind of money. Rather, the process should be strengthened, whether by making it electronic, that when a given job is done, the partial account or the final invoice is submitted, a check is carried out within 30 days, that everything is okay, or that if there are gaps or replacement works to be carried out, they should be carried out, but the payment should be made by the deadline, because believe that businesses will not be destroyed by the form of the procurement procedure, that they will be paper or electronic, but will be destroyed by the fact that they will not get money, dried out and simply disappear. Then their owners may try their luck in the construction market there in Western Europe, as workers. So I would like to suggest that you consider these. In this respect, it would be very important to take substantial steps, not to mention the remaining circumstances of the chain debt and other very serious problems. We would also like to see this, to hear proposals, and to make the tendering system and the payment system more professional, to make it oiled, roll-over, believe me, much more important than this proposal, which, as I have just said to you, we can otherwise support. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-14-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mrs Mónika Dunai if she wishes to respond as rapporteur to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-11-14-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the authors, thank you for the statements of support made in the debate. There have been good comments from the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, the lead speaker of Jobbik. Allow me to add one comment to the idea of the main speech of the MSZP, which happens to be the leading speaker of the MSZP was very concerned about the future of small businesses. I can assure you that the Fidesz-KDNP government is doing everything in its power, not only with this bill, but also with no disadvantage, but with a great deal of action we are specifically helping small and medium-sized enterprises. An example of this is that in the current EU payment cycle, we are spending most of the money to support and strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises. So it is completely contrary to our thinking that, in any law, we would like to put small businesses, family businesses, at a disadvantage. This is very necessary and there are a lot of them in Hungary; this law will not put them at a disadvantage. Thank you again for your statements of support, and I ask the Parliament to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-50	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2012 CLXXXV on waste. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/18313. Number 2 is available on the House's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István Nagy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-14-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The 2012 CLXXXV on waste. The Act, like the spring session, was once again on the agenda of the Parliament in order to make the changes that are currently due, in order to facilitate the efficient and efficient operation of waste management. As regards the transformed public service, the bill seeks to clarify certain issues relating to the public waste management service and introduces the concept of a sub-contractor. In order to transform the public waste management system, the legislative environment entered into force on 1 April 2016. The coordinating body, the National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Ltd. Based on its experience, a review of the legislative environment has become necessary in order to ensure the stability of the waste management public service and to facilitate the applicability of the rules on the management of the backlog. The main pillars of the bill on waste management public services are as follows. The coordinating body, acting under its responsibility, shall obtain, update and record data from a range of property users of a size exceeding three million. Due to the large number of district offices, the acquisition of personal and address data from the central register is justified by IT. The coordinating body shall provide the tax authority with the name of the debtor and the information necessary for his identification in the course of its fee back management function. The current legislation requires only partial disclosure of these data, which makes it significantly difficult and slows down the task of the coordinating body. The main purpose of the amendment to the Act is to enable the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office to require operators who actually own the necessary data to provide the information necessary for its activities in the preparation of the public service fee. In order to facilitate the clarity and uniform interpretation of the law, it is necessary to distinguish and define the concept of non-profit contracting entities from other subcontractors of waste management. In order to avoid misunderstandings, it should be pointed out that, for example, the non-profit requirement is still not required for IT subcontractors. Following the question of public service, moving to further waste management proposals, it should be pointed out that this amendment is part of a legal harmonisation obligation for the so-called hazard characteristics. The Annex to the Act lists the hazard characteristics of which HP 14 is hazardous to the environment This feature has long required detailed regulation at both EU and domestic level. Under the Waste Framework Directive, Member States may exempt undertakings from the authorisation requirement in the case of the disposal of their own non-dangerous waste at the place of production or the recovery of waste. Like other Member States, in order to reduce the number of official procedures, we aim to establish implementing rules for the exemption. [[12.20]] Activities would be covered by exemptions which do not pose environmental risks, but will facilitate waste management operators in a way that is realistic. Such may be the exemption from preparation operations. An example of this is when shops combine packaging paper waste, which is a relatively simple operation and significantly facilitates subsequent recovery. Traditional domestic activities include the production of a new consumer product from consumer waste. This effort is based on a slight amendment of the law. In accordance with the Waste Framework Directive, the amendment states that professional operators in waste management should be regularly monitored by the Environmental Authority. The experience of inspections is particularly beneficial. Based on years of experience, it can be concluded that regular official presence can prevent serious waste management abuses that trigger a high social echo, and that the voluntary willingness to follow up is strengthened by the ability of operators to deal with regular controls. The amendment repeals the regulations on spatial waste management plans, as they are not mandatory for Hungary and result in unnecessary additional professional and administrative tasks for both territorially competent authorities and the relevant wallets. For years there have been a number of legal disputes about the legal status of uncontaminated soil extracted. To resolve the difficulties surrounding interpretation of the subject, this amendment proposes that the producer or, if it cannot be established, the holder's intention to make a statement at the heart of the uncontaminated soil and other material in its natural state which is not used on the spot. Based on the experience gained so far, the use of uncontaminated soil produced requires separate legislation. As a Hungarian point of view, the highest proportion of agricultural land in Hungary compared to the territory of the country is the highest in the European countries. The use of land as a national treasure, the land harvested but not used locally, helps to preserve the land. The legislation would make it a priority to prevent land from becoming waste, to exclude potential contamination of land with or after extraction, to prefer its recovery, and only in the final case to allow land to be disposed of as waste in permitted landfills. Dear Parliament, Accordingly, I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of this proposal on the amendment of the Waste Act by their contributions, professional proposals and votes. Mr President, thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-52	Secretary of State, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Bartos. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-11-14-53	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, What we see and monitor is that waste management in the European Union and in our country is a very dynamically developing area. We are experiencing rapid changes in both the organisation of the system, the regulatory environment and technological progress. They point in the direction of operating a social and economic set-up that is as low as possible in the natural environment. With regard to waste management, it is important to emphasise that we are pushing the human activity material flow system as far as possible towards an environmentally friendly circular system, instead of linear material flow systems that consume natural capital and destroy the human environment, we are increasing the share of environmentally friendly circular material flow systems. My fellow Members of the opposition have repeatedly criticised us - I think they will do so now - that we often touch the waste law and untie it. I don't see it that way. I believe that waste management is a major challenge, not only the quantity of waste that is causing great problems in modern civilised societies, but also the constantly changing quality of waste, because with the development of technology and industry, materials and compounds that we need to be able to learn to handle can also come into our environment. Waste management must always be adapted to the challenges. I think that a legislator doesn't make mistakes unless he makes this adjustment all the time. Mr Secretary of State has highlighted several areas in his exposé, which also serve these adjustments. The proposal before us also serves to bring about the necessary changes in waste management and to bring about a better situation. When I examine these proposals as a representative on the Committee for Sustainable Development, I always take two aspects into account. One is that the proposal helps to implement it every day. So somewhere, life dictates how waste management should be done well. In my view, there are a number of points in the proposal before us that really shape the existing law for life. For example, the Secretary of State has explained this in detail when he is trying to rephrase and adapt to life the issues of collection of fees and back-up management. Or so, when the contracting entity makes amendments to subcontractors. Or when it lays down the obligation to refund public service charges collected in breach of the provisions of the Waste Act imposed by the Consumer Protection Authority. Or is it saying that, in the context of the establishment of a regulation on rules for the production and use of alternative fuels from mixed municipal waste for energy purposes, specific ministerial authorisation should be granted for the elimination of waste status. However, it is equally important that the actors are coordinated and, for example, the EMMI regulations are adapted to those set out in the national waste management public service plan that helps to implement them. Or another point of the proposal when it proposes to abandon the obsolete and unused instrument that territorial planning represents. The other aspect, which I also pay attention to, is how much a proposal helps to implement sustainability aspects, how it can act as an incentive for different actors, how it can encourage them to cooperate. There are a number of points in the current proposal that aim at this. I think that's the point where you stress control and try to make it more common. As Minister of State has said, he is trying to strengthen the responsibility of voluntary compliance, which I think is very important. Or when it creates the legal status of unpolluted soil and involves producers as partners and makes their declaration and cooperation important. The same is true when preparing the domestic exemption regulation in accordance with the Waste Framework Directive by providing operators with facilities to dispose of their own non-dangerous waste at the site of production or opening the possibility of exemption from the obligation to purchase a waste management permit in the case of waste recovery. For example, if a small producer who manufactures animal products and wants to make soap out of by-product fat, then so far it has been necessary to ask for permission to do so. [[12.30]] Now this proposal opens the way and relieves this entrepreneur of a lot of costs, as this kind of exemption will already apply. I think that this is a proposal that can help both to create sustainability aspects and to adapt legislation to life. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-14-54	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Anita Heringes. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-11-14-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr. Vice President, Dear fellow Members, Yes, unfortunately, here again lies the Waste Act. I can agree with most of the words of my fellow Member Mónika Bartos in most cases, because it is really important to improve the law by helping us to recycle the waste as much as possible so that we do not dump it, but recycle the waste we produce to talk about what sustainability is, what our future is on this issue. Only in recent times, as it is now, with many good ideas, we can see that we are trying to help NHKV again, a company that does not work. It doesn't work because in January last year, it was supposed to permanently set up its billing system, find all the parties who had to bill, all the residents, all the businesses, to what address to send, where, who, what amount. He hasn't been able to do this since January of last year. If a company operating on a market basis couldn't solve in two years the task that's being assigned to it, that company would either have fallen for it or its manager would have been replaced. None of this is happening here, but we are constantly absolving and absolving the laws to help, in case we are able to solve the task that we have imposed on them by chance; to send the bill to the public by deadline, let us say that the first quarterly accounts should not arrive in the third quarter, let us say that the check deadline should not be before arrival. These are little things, of course, it only pisses people off, because when you get your three-quarters of a year's bill at the same time, he realizes that he doesn't have to pay that three-quarters of a year's bill right away, but he still gets in the drawer, and anything can happen to him. It's one of the last checks you pay, most of the population, unfortunately. So we didn't help or improve morale with this company. I have said many times that it has helped an incredible amount in the willingness to collect, that nonprofit service companies, the locals, have sent local people to the residents, they have traveled through the streets, the houses, and they have collected the cost of transporting waste. Because there was a greater willingness to pay, because once a quarter the same lady or gentleman appeared in that apartment, and there people paid for it. And here you get a check, and that's one of the checks. But after the billing has been taken away from the service companies and now the NHKV is doing so as a coordinating body, it seems that the public's willingness to pay is deteriorating. Of course it's getting worse because they don't get the check, it's really, really hard. We've already amended the law once about NHKV collecting the outstanding amounts. I have tried to ask you a number of times in written questions how much outstanding there is compared to the time when the service providers billed and collected the fees, how much higher the outstanding amount is in some areas. Unfortunately, the Ministry was unable to respond because they said that they could not compare the willingness of the same inhabitants of the same regions to pay. If we still can't identify the data of over 3 million real estate users, I think there's a real problem in this company. Because other companies do that somehow. They ask for these data in a uniform system, and then the billing usually works. What I really don't understand is why you're so protective of this company, which you can see doesn't work well, doesn't do your job, makes voters angry. We have an election campaign, and I'm guessing that the Fidesz-KDNP government has no intention of making the public angry at whether or not they arrive from garbage shipments in their account or arrive at the wrong place, at the wrong time, at the wrong time, at the wrong address, at the wrong name. I don't think it's for anyone's benefit that they've created a system that doesn't work. Now we can see that from now on you can initiate the recovery of the back taxes at the NAV. We have heard many times that the coordinating body will carry out this recovery and will do better than the NAV. Well, we see that we have to redefine the law again, because it has failed to perform this task. Customer services will now be provided by a special, specialised company, not by local service companies or NHKV customer service. I think we're gonna give another paying position to some company or another income opportunity, and it's not gonna work for anything else. The farther the customer service is from the population locally and physically, the more difficult it is to reach the customer service. Achieving NHKV's customer service is still a major challenge, because a number of residents have indicated to me that it is necessary to try for days to report any problems at all, that the checks have not arrived, or that they are drawing attention to another trash can or any other problem. We can also say that there is no system of waste management in Hungary today, that only in my area, in the small settlements near Paks, there is now a section where the plastic has not been removed for four weeks or any selective waste, standing in front of the house. It was a very, very well-functioning area. This service has worked very, very precisely and well with us over the past few years. Since NHKV has taken over the coordinating role and distributed back the money, not the money they have collected, but only a part of the service provider, it seems that the service itself is stalling. And after four weeks of standing on the trash cans, no one takes them away, of course, unfortunately, from now on, these trash cans are turned over at night, on weekends, and then the public can go, pick them up again and put them back in the trash. I think it's becoming more and more obvious that this system is not working. That is why we are saying that we should not untie this law, but rather sit down and discuss with the profession how this could work well, efficiently and sustainably, so that the public, the local government and the service providers can benefit and function. I think we should sit down and talk these things over, especially from a professional point of view, because otherwise this thing won't work. We can work it out, but this law doesn't get any better, especially if we just want to help NHKV with the changes to the law, so that he can finally do his job. For this reason, the MSZP fraction will not support the absolution process, because we believe that the NHKV itself should be abolished, its leaders should be replaced and a company that has not been able to perform its work for two years should be held accountable. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-14-56	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Lajos Kepli. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-14-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As they say, I have good news and bad news or information about the proposal. I'd like to start with the negative, because that's the most important part. What Mónika Bartos, my fellow Member, has said or advanced to us is that we will mention that the Waste Act will be amended for many years, which is not a problem because the government employs the policy makers of opposition parties and government parties from week to week, from month to month here in Parliament. After all, we really enjoy these little family debates we're having on the waste bill, but because it shows that the system the Fidesz government invented and introduced in 2012 with the Waste Act doesn't seem to want to work properly. That is why new amendments should be introduced from time to time based on experience. And indeed, it undermines a trust in a law, if it has to be modified and changed a lot and often. If Parliament is already legislating at regulation level and we are going into technical details that are not worthy of the spirit of legislation, but it is indeed an important issue that the waste management system in Hungary works effectively and that this centralised system cannot, for some reason, provide it. [[12.40]] It is not able to carry out invoicing tasks with sufficient efficiency, it is not able to carry out the collection tasks with sufficient efficiency, and therefore it is necessary to constantly modify these parts so that, on the one hand, the public debt that can be collected as taxes and that the NAV can take care of recovery and, on the other hand, the invoicing itself does not necessarily go through the central coordinating body, but also to involve sub-enterprises for this purpose and for several other purposes. So the system really looks a little messed up, so maybe it's time for a change. Obviously, this will no longer happen in this cycle, and in the next cycle it is hoped that other waste management ideas will be implemented with a different set-up. If Jobbik is given a government formation mandate in 2018, this will certainly happen. Now, however, let us stick to the text and changes of the current law, as there are also some positive parts of this, such as the change in relation to construction and demolition waste, specifically in relation to the land harvested, which I raised in 2012 when the waste legislation was debated here in the House, and many times since then within the walls of Parliament, so that we do not have to classify as waste the soil that has not been otherwise contaminated, which has so far been a category of construction and demolition waste. After all, before I became a representative, I had to deal with a number of cases before 2010, where entrepreneurs were fined tens of millions of forints on the basis of the amount of soil they harvested, because they used the soil for uploading in another area without a permit for waste management, which, by the way, does not pose any danger to the environment, since there was no artificial component in it. It was natural soil and rocks in every case. By way of long appeals, these fine decisions have already been withdrawn or repealed at the judicial stage, but for several months these entrepreneurs have experienced the fact that because of such an act, which is not considered to be pollution at all, the existence of their business and the existence of their own existence, and a few gray hairs have been obtained by these measures, completely unwarranted. So let us not consider waste as waste, this is a very welcome and positive initiative, that finally the law states that not only if it is used locally at the point of extraction, but, where appropriate, under certain conditions, by means of a declaration, even if it is used elsewhere, on the spot, it should not be considered waste, out of the category of waste, and all such natural substances, which otherwise occur naturally, should not be classified as waste. The other important issue relates to asbestos removal, as the amendment states that the asbestos-containing construction and demolition waste, which a professional entrepreneur places in big-bag bags and collects at the site of demolition, can be transported by the owner or the customer himself to the nearest depot, to the nearest treatment site. The problem with this is where you can find such a place to put your building and demolition waste contaminated with asbestos and at what cost you can do so, of course. After all, the aim would be to ensure that the 100-200 million square meters of asbestos slate roof, which is expected and estimated in Hungary, disappears as soon as possible and is properly disposed of, as disappears now, only most of the time, along with other prisons, construction and demolition debris, is taken to landfills. It is not treated separately because it is not taken into account by the demolition workers, or it obviously does not want to be expensive to dispose of asbestos shale waste, it is much easier for it to be disposed of in other illegal ways. And it disappears gradually, but we cannot keep track of the fate of these asbestosy shale waste, the only and greatest environmental and health hazard of which is pollination. Therefore, disposal can only be carried out in such a way that this pollination is not achieved, so it is very important who is doing the demolition, who is transporting the waste and how it is carried out. So it's a good thing that the owner can take it himself without a permit to dispose of it, if there are dump sites like this. In March there was a committee meeting, at a meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, Mr Zsolt V. Németh, Secretary of State, spoke about the issue, and he himself confirmed that at the moment a part of asbestos shale waste disappears and that it should be resolved that there should be landfills, depots; or where it is not possible - he said so too - to collect these waste into special containers outside the settlements and transport it to the appropriate dump site. It would be very important for this to be stimulated from a government level as well, and to accelerate this process as quickly as possible, to remove asbestos roofing materials, insulating materials and asbestos removal materials from buildings in Hungary as quickly as possible. So on the one hand, there is a positive part of this initiative that can be shipped without authorisation, but on the other hand, there is still a lack of suitable places where the owner or customer concerned will be able to transport these waste. Then the bill talks about the national waste management plan and the implementation of the regional planning phase. We do not know whether this is a positive or negative measure, and it will be decided by time, as a national-wide plan with scope can also be made to include measures in terms of regions and territorial units. Some regions of the country have very different characteristics in terms of waste management, and therefore the strategy must be formulated differently for either an eastern Hungarian region or, say, for a region in Western Hungary, or, say, for a metropolitan area and a rural, farmland region. So how such a national plan, such a strategy, will be seen when this is born, but it is a fact that attention should be paid to the specialities of local rural areas not only in rural areas, but also in different geographical regions in planning. For this reason, that some of the measures are practically positive, but we cannot continue to agree with the concept of the Waste Act itself, therefore, although those proposals - and that is why it is good that we can say so specifically in the speaker's speech - are eligible, but we would like the country to have a completely new concept of waste management. Therefore, this duality will be represented in the final vote by a abstaining position, and the government will be left with the task of absolving its own waste management strategy, even if it includes positive measures. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-14-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr István Nagy, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill amending certain laws to improve the competitiveness of agriculture until closure. The presentation submitted by our Fidesz colleagues Balázs Győrffy and Sándor Font T/1809. Number 2 is available on the House's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Győrffy, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[12.50]]
u2017-11-14-59	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The bill we have tabled contains six amendments to the law on the competitiveness of the agricultural sector. These are the Law on Water Management; the Law on Wildlife Protection, Wildlife Management and Hunting; the Law on the Protection of Land; the Law on Forests, Forest Protection and Forestry; the Law on the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economy and Rural Development; and the Law on Certain Issues of the Organisation of Agricultural Markets, Producer and Interbranch Organisations. The common objective of amending these legislation is to reduce administrative burdens, to provide certain advantages and to encourage the competitiveness of farmers and to help them. The most important amendments to these laws are as follows. I'd like to start by introducing the Water Management Act. In Hungary between 2006 and 2016 the producers did not have to pay water supply contributions for the irrigation water they used. Or, as the professional language says, they didn't have to pay for vkj. However, due to the harmonisation of EU legislation, payment obligations had to be introduced. In order to help our farmers to catch up with EU competitors already lagging behind, we believe that further reduction or abandonment of the burden may be necessary. The only way to achieve this is to introduce preferential quota limits on the basis of which farmers remain exempt from this payment obligation. On the one hand, the proposal improves the situation of fish farmers and rice growers by setting the exemption limit in 400 thousand cubic metres instead of 300 thousand cubic metres at present, as is the case for waterers. At the same time, the proposal encourages an increase in irrigated areas by making use of the exemption on the basis of irrigated areas. So if you increase your irrigated area, the exemption will increase. The same shall be applied in an analogue way to fish farmers when increasing the water surface. In addition, the proposal no longer determines the reduced quantity per user but per licence. This is important because at present, even after tens of kilometres of each other's territory, each user has to calculate the quantity used, despite the fact that several licences were issued for different bodies of water. Under the proposal, the exemption limit should be applied separately after the different permits, which would save up to millions of HUF for the operators in the sector, for example, after a fish pond. The next law that we want to amend is the Wildlife Protection, Wildlife Management and Hunting Act. The draft clarifies the concept of wage hunting in the case of a separate hunting right, stating that it should be agreed in writing with consideration, while extending the possibility of hunting to hunting companies. The essential element of these wage hunting would otherwise be laid down at the same legal level as practice. In order to reduce the significant increase in wildlife damage in recent years, it is also necessary to increase the intensity of hunting and extend its duration. The use of a night vision viewing viewing binoculars would provide an opportunity for this. I stress, search binoculars, so we are not talking about target telescopes; by recognizing the beast to be dropped, it is easier to recognize. This is also a security-enhancing amendment. The draft would also extend the responsibilities of the main hunter in the countryside, stating that they should contribute to the preparation of a game management plan for those eligible for hunting. In this way, the hunters will be able to obtain accurate information from a credible source, and the game management plan will be prepared for game owners on the basis of the data and specifications of the game management plan. According to the current rules, wild game farmers' plans expired on 28 February 2017 on the basis of which wild game management was continued. In many cases, however, this has not been renewed. The amendment would provide these stakeholders with an opportunity to continue their game management activities in the same area until 28 February 2037 in compliance with the laws. In addition, word repetitions and expressions have been corrected and clarified. Next is the amendment of the Land Protection Act. The proposal clarifies, on the one hand, the definition of low power plants for this law, stating that it is less than half a megawatt and that it produces electricity using solar energy. With this amendment, we can continue to support the production of renewable energy. In this context, the proposal states that soil protection testing is not required for the installation of such plants in fields of less than average quality. This can also be justified by the fact that there is no substantial interference with the soil when power plants or solar power plants are set up. Land is our common treasure, and it is our duty to protect it. However, we consider it unreasonable to attach to the permit of the real estate authority the removal of land from cultivation if it is used for agricultural landscaping or irrigation facilities. This leads to a significant additional burden for farmers and prevents them from making a number of useful productive investments. Therefore, it is proposed to exempt those concerned from authorisation in the case of the establishment and operation of irrigation facilities. At the same time, the exemption for areas of approximately 2 square meters used for the construction of a national ice reduction system to be established by the Chamber of Agricultural Economy by 1 May 18 would not be subject to authorisation on the basis of the draft. For the operation of the ice mitigation system, we will deploy around 850 new soil generators at the beginning of 2018. With these tools, we will only save production value of HUF 50 billion per year in agriculture, and, of course, the system will protect plants, houses and cars in the same way, so the overall profit of the national economy is much greater than this value. All of this will not cost Hungarian farmers an extra forint, so we propose simplifying the rules in this area as well. In addition to the above, the obligation to pay land protection contributions would also be abolished in the context of the reduction of red tape in the case of these activities. The amendment also remedys the fact that there was no statute of limitations in respect of infringement practices in the case of previous rules. This provision increases the responsibility of the determining authorities in the exercise of their control activities, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, strengthens legal certainty. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The legislative technique used in the proposal is in line with the sanctioning system applied by the construction rules, so there will be no possibility in future, for example, to impose fines for an omission of 8 to 10 years ago. Next is the amendment of the forest, forest protection, forest management law. Due to the nature of forestry activities, it is only possible to plan in the long term. This means the forest plan, which should be at least ten years old. The new forest law came into force in September, but this did not resolve the further use of existing forest plans. The draft would allow the entry into force of the new forest law to adapt the plan of operations to the current legal conditions, for example by transposing the nature conservation provisions. In recent years, it may have been possible for eight months that the farmer could not use his own property, could not carry out the work required for him, could not reasonably manage the forest. This has caused serious problems in some areas of the country, taking away the only job opportunity from the population with a slight exaggeration. The new rules seek to balance, while protecting nature, also allowing farming. Currently 250 000 hectares of forest are not in use in Hungary. they must be reclaimed. This would solve the current shortage of firewood, create jobs and generate significant tax revenues. By 2035 we would like to increase the forest cover in Hungary from the current 21 percent to 27 percent. This objective cannot be achieved without these good ideas, without the adoption of amendments. The proposal also serves to ensure consistency with the General Administrative Rules Act. Next is the amendment of the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economics and Rural Development. The proposal would also affect the Chamber Act. Under the proposal, if elected officials of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy are elected, the cause of conflict of interest should be eliminated within 15 days, instead of 30 so far, in accordance with the rules in force after the election. This is a necessary amendment due to recent elections. The other provision to be amended concerns the ice reduction system under the abovementioned rural development programme. As the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy has won the right to tender for the establishment of the scheme, it is also necessary to fix this at the statutory level as a public task of the agricultural chamber. I would like to say a few thoughts here on certain issues concerning the organisation of the agricultural markets, amending the law on producer and interbranch organisations. The growing concentration on the purchasing side of agricultural markets is one of the common phenomena of dominant positions; the purchaser, late payment of the consideration for products and complaints beyond the period of consumptionability or preservation of rapidly perishing products are those which periodically cause significant damage to producers. [[13.00]] In order to create more balanced market power, it is necessary to regulate these unfair market behaviours at a legal level, which is what the bill attempts to do. The proposal would also improve the accuracy of crop estimates. Every year, the Chamber of Agriculture collects data that it collects, and on this basis, the Ministry of Agriculture publishes crop estimates for the most important cultures. The most accurate data are provided on the basis of experience with single applications. The draft would allow the transfer of a representative sample of producers trained on these grounds. On the basis of the data provided, county and national reports are produced from the data provided by the sampled producers with the assistance of the national villager network. These would provide further clarification compared to the method used so far. The proposal also settles the question of the fact that there is currently no recognised national quality system in Hungary that complies with EU standards, even though the information and promotion activities of producers, producer groupings related to quality schemes in the rural development programme and the eligibility of the measure are subject to the preparation of a national legislation on the regulation of quality schemes. The legislative regulation and authorisation of the measure are contained in this amendment. The number of people currently engaged in professional advisory activities in the domestic agricultural and food economy is unknown. The register in which the Chamber of Agricultural Economy is managed shall include only those natural persons consultants who are in some way linked or previously associated with the technical advice supported by Union funds. However, this activity can only be carried out by consultants in the past and in the current programme period through a service provider authorised to carry out supported activities. Based on the current rules, we do not know what providers of consultancy in the form of companies are in the system. It is therefore important to take stock and record all those involved in the service, not only in the supported service, for the sake of a transparent system. In addition, the draft includes a number of technical amendments. This last pass is also interesting and topical because, in recent days, at a Copa-Cogeca working group meeting, it has become clear that the European Union will also address this issue, and wants to adopt an EU directive on unfair trade solutions in the next few months, but we hope that it will be adopted in six months. Therefore, this part of the legislative amendment should also be examined through these glasses. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps it has come to light from what has just been said that this set of legislative amendments essentially serves the competitiveness of the agricultural economy as a result of its name, but perhaps also in its content, to help those working in agriculture. I would ask my fellow Members, with their votes in favour, to be among the supporters of this matter. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-60	Thank you, Congressman Balázs Győrffy. I salute my fellow Members. I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. István Nagy State Secretary.
u2017-11-14-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr Balázs Győrffy's bill concerns elements of agricultural regulation that, overall, do indeed increase the competitiveness of agriculture. This can be achieved either by increasing the amount of irrigation water that can be used free of charge and by simplifying soil protection procedures for irrigation equipment, or by extending the planning of special hunting areas, but also by regulating late payment interest or quality complaints that encourage orderly market relations, as well as in the operation of crop estimates or in national quality schemes that encourage the spread of quality products. There are diverse issues, but we should like to thank the Member for taking up the legislative amendments by collecting them. One of the key topics of this term on the part of the government was the reduction of bureaucracy, and I welcome the fact that my fellow Member is also taking part in this work. It is a significant relief for farmers to use water resources free per water permit 400 thousand cubic metres per year or 8 thousand cubic metres per hectare per year per water user per hectare per year for irrigated area, 400 thousand cubic metres per year per year for water use for fish and rice production, or 25 thousand cubic metres per hectare per year for water rights permits for the use of fish and rice. In the definition of wage hunting, he added the written nature of the wage hunting contracts, otherwise in accordance with the practice, as well as the term "for remuneration." The change to the operational planning cycle of specialized hunting areas will result in the simultaneous completion of all Hungarian hunting sites in 2037 and the management of wild game planning can be managed in a uniform manner in terms of both the wild game management plans and the wild game management plans for hunting areas. This will be an infinitely important and effective step forward. It creates a more flexible possibility of fulfilling the obligation to operate the land than before, by referring to exceptions at the level of the government decree, instead of the previous, only legal exceptions. It initiates the establishment of low-performance solar power plants on land of less than average quality by avoiding the need for soil protection testing in this case. It aims to facilitate investments in support of the achievement of agricultural objectives by exempting other uses of agricultural land from the official procedure. It shall exempt water supply for agricultural purposes, the establishment of a water facility for the collection of precipitation water and the construction of a low-performance solar power plant from the payment of land protection contributions. In the event of late payment, the interest on late payment is set at 20 per cent, as we all know that twice the current low central bank base rate has no deterrent effect. Mr Balázs Győrffy's bill seeks to promote important issues for farmers, to which I, on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture, ask for their kind support. Mr President, thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-62	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Farkas, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor.
u2017-11-14-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Submitters! Indeed, it is true that this draft law, which is at the moment before us, is very helpful in today's situation, often to farmers in difficulty, to those who participate in agriculture, and I am also pleased that all these amendments will effectively mean the enforcement of the interests of farmers, farmers and the facilitation of their duties. This is also confirmed by the fact that, in fact, I do not want to take the role away from the opposition at the committee meeting in the last few days, but they have also largely agreed on these issues and the answers to these questions. But perhaps as a first subject, which is the annual LVIII on water management. With regard to the amendment of law, indeed, these facilitations, these new parameters, which have been incorporated into the bill, all of which determine part of the possibility of irrigation for the coming period. Of course, farmers would be more pleased with what existed earlier on the basis of the abolition of the water supply allowance, but we know that this cannot continue to work under EU legislation. Therefore, these facilitations, apart from that, I believe that they mean a great deal to irrigating farmers and farmers, and these parameters, these numbers, too, serve a significant part of this purpose. The annual LV on Wildlife Protection and Wildlife Management and Hunting. The amendment of the Act also includes serious assistance and guidance and correction, as it corrects the reformed hunting law that has been in force since 2016 on some points on the basis of previous operational experience. And here I would point out that it is very important that, if, in the course of operation, we find out that some laws, some measures, do not always take place according to daily life, we can respond appropriately to this, and we can respond appropriately. [[13.10]] Therefore, based on previous operational experience, it clarifies the concept of wage hunting, the trophy system and the scope of the main hunting tasks of the regional unit, creates the possibility of extending the hunting schedules, complements the rules on the use of hunting weapons, abolishes the five-year term of the hunting tickets, leaving the annual enforcement obligation, of course. These are very important ideas and very important proposals for wildlife management. CXXIX of 2007 on the protection of agricultural land. The amendment of the Act, which has been repeatedly mentioned here, simplifies licensing rules and exempts the payment of land protection contributions in the case of the construction of low-performance power plants and water installations. I think we can see this very well now, when these programmes are launched and started, that power plants, low-performance solar power plants, which, if I just say that in my constituency, in the southern part of the Great Plain, are implemented in a significant part of the areas that represent low-Golden land with poor production potential, are forms of exploitation, and this legislative amendment is also used to facilitate this exploitation. At the same time, we know, and I could also mention, for example, that in the case of water facilities, farmers are very annoyed by the fact that there is also the imposition of a land-office fine when, for example, temporary drainage ditches are installed on their land; this may also vary considerably. XXXVII of 2009 on forest, forest protection and forestry The amendment to the Act clarifies that the rules of the new forest law adopted last year on forest planning also apply to ongoing forest planning procedures. According to the amendment of the Act on the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development, the operation of the national anti-icing system will be included among the public tasks of the Chamber, which will mean significant help, security and, not least, damage relief not only for farmers, but also for the various civilian facilities throughout the country. This is a huge step forward because we know that the annual amount of ice damage is usually around HUF 50 billion. Therefore, if we can reduce this amount, this is also a serious step in terms of users or those who have suffered ice damage, which we have been waiting for for for many years or perhaps decades. Unfortunately, the various cyclone effects and cells that occurred during climate change, which have developed several times this year in different areas of the country, have caused very serious damage. We are very confident that this anti-icing system will greatly dull or perhaps minimize these disadvantages, these losses. In this amendment, the rules on conflicts of interest for elected officials are added in the context of the Chamber elections. The amendment to the Act on certain questions concerning the organisation of the product markets and on interbranch production organisations clearly strengthens the position of farmers vis-à-vis purchasers. We know very well that this is a problem that we have not been able to solve for many decades, but I believe that by amending this law we will be closer to the solution. This means that they increase the late payment interest of the purchaser's defaulted payment obligation, determine when the purchaser may raise a qualitative objection to fresh goods, introduce status rating data, create the legal background necessary to establish a national quality system in accordance with the EU standard, supplement the rules on professional advisory activities in order to ensure that they do not apply only to natural persons as previously. I think it is very important in terms of professional advice that a system of advice, a daily plus- and, I might say, prompt information should be made available to farmers, which can greatly help their economic activity, I would say, their effective management. Not least, this advisory system is also necessary in order to have appropriate professional training, professional post-training, prompt, daily updates, and to do so it is necessary to amend this law. All in all, it can be concluded that the amendment of these laws, I repeat once again, will greatly assist farmers in their activities and alleviate their problems. I trust that Parliament will support this, on the basis of those previously revealed by opposition representatives. I need your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-64	Thank you, Congressman Sándor Farkas. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Gőgös, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-11-14-65	[[While he's changing his microphone:]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me ask you for a moment, for there is no tweezers on this microphone, and it will be heavy enough; now it will not be on your neighbor. Excuse me, Mr. President, but I can sort this out.
u2017-11-14-66	Okay, we're gonna reset the clock.
u2017-11-14-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, we have before us a salad law that is not the government's proposal, although we would prefer it to be, because then it would have been preceded by a wider social consultation. It is always a trap for opposition representatives that it is obvious that there are many parts in such a salad law that are eligible and okay, but there are elements in it that are not. Now, after you have to press a button at the end, so it's likely that if there's only a few in it that can't be supported, you have to stay, if you have a lot, then you have to vote against. We're gonna have a dilemma about that, and I'm gonna make some suggestions, so if you're gonna take one or two of them, whether it's the authors or the government, you can obviously handle that. In any case, I am pleased that Mr Tállai is here, because the best way to improve the competitiveness of agriculture would be to arrange everywhere for a reduction in fuel prices, because he is very good at this and not by reducing excise duty. It would also be important, only after we can recover most of the excise duty in the profession, so it would be better if MOL could arrange the reduction of the producer price nationally. As we can see, you have the potential to do this, and it would be good to keep doing this. The other one. As I said, it is a salad law, and it is also apparent that there are several elements which, of course, have nothing to do with competitiveness, but I am not saying that this has never happened in Parliament, that, say, we are amending hunting rules in relation to competitiveness. I would add that one of them is not the longest, but it is quite a part of the law in many areas, and I must say that this is basically not a problem, so these are the elements that are good. It is also good to raise discounts on water management. They've obviously been there, and now it's been extended to a wider circle, and I think it's an old need to be able to store more water in places where, by the way, it's not necessarily necessary, but it's obviously a real need for this for another reason. Which is already a problem, for example, in connection with the Land Protection Act. Article 14 Paragraph 1 states that there is no place for a land-protection fine if one year has elapsed from the date on which the act was brought to the attention of the real estate authority. It's a very juicy way of putting it, because it says here that someone at the Land Office announces that something bad has happened here, and then he puts the file away, and then a year goes by, and then he says, "Yeah, it's been a year, sorry, but it's kind of gone from that point of view, and then I don't care about it. So this part should definitely be omitted. We can agree that in five years from the time of an act, it should not be relevant, because it is so long five years, especially in relation to soil protection, when there is almost certainly an irreversible event, but we should not give the authority such an exemption, let us not give it an opportunity to intervene, let us say, elsewhere in such matters. [[13.20]] Because it can be done by order if he is told - and this in today's world, let's face it, is not so rare - that he is put aside, simply put away, and after a year he does not need to be dealt with. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Yes, my fellow Members here say that this is probably not something to be dealt with, but there are examples. So I suggest that the pro-government representatives ignore that. We believe that the part of the bill relating to forests is okay, so I think that it is acceptable in this form. I smiled a little bit when I saw the next rule of conflict of interest in the Chamber section, in which nothing else happens but that the deadline is reduced from 30 days to 15 days, but I think that for several years there has been a conflict of interest between one of the leaders of the Chamber, who, by the way, is even Secretary of State, which could not be in many ways, even though they wrote to me on my written question that this is okay, according to all the laws, the activity of Little Miklós is incompatible. In English: if I settle this, then I say it's okay, but obviously this law itself won't settle this. When I saw the next paragraph on certain issues concerning the organisation of agricultural product markets, I thought it was the work that we started in the spring, and I also have to say that my fellow Members and fellow Members, Zoltán Magyar, also submitted a proposal for a parliamentary resolution in this regard, and then we, too, with my fellow Member Bellozó; I looked for where those proposals were in this section, where they should be. In the proposal for a decision, we stated that in consultation with the producer organisations concerned, a complete package of laws should come in to settle these disputes. I'm not going to list this right now, but it was a package of several paragraphs, and unfortunately, we don't see much of it. What is in it is that there is a 20% interest rate, and we agree with that, but I would like to say that this is 5 percent in the Tax Act, so there will already be a contradiction in this, and this should be settled. In Art., which we have also discussed, I think we voted on it today, then we can only correct it with an amendment, but then we should put these two together somewhere, because this story hangs in the air. So I would stress, and I think that, after this time, about a few months before the election, the proposal to make amendments does not make much sense, and so far they have not accepted much, I would add that there was something that, if not so submitted, had been heard, that I, Mr State Secretary, would pass them on to me in the context of this issue, that is to say, the amendments drafted in the section relating to the product market organisation, and then decide whether it should be introduced in the context of this law - I think it should - or in the form of a separate legislative package, but this chapter should be taken out of this bill. I'd like to get back to one more thing, that's the part of the law where they're trying to settle the agricultural database. What I'm curious about is, once such a database is put together, who's gonna be handling it? I also accept that there is a need for one of these, because, obviously, there is a very, very often run-up to the market regulation, the management system, that it does not have any data and that it does not have enough information about how much production is actually taking place in Hungary - I would add that it is still necessary to do certain statistical reports now, and it is also okay to have a crop estimate and a subsequent crop evaluation - but I would be careful that such a database is a very wide-ranging organisation; because this administrative body, more precisely an agricultural administration, is a rather complex body, a description of which is about 10 pages in the bill, which has several heads, i.e. on the one hand the Minister for Agriculture and on the other hand, Minister Lázázáz, because it is obviously part of this administration that administration. Therefore, the fact that we are collecting data now - I am talking specifically about point (c) - that data should be provided for the purpose of operating the agricultural database - would be good to know, because the detailed justification does not tell us what the plan is then, because this may be good. What are these data? How is this wider than, say, in particular, in terms of farming? In particular, for example, I will now return with a sentence that the tax return of Ancient Farmers will be carried out in the future by the Chamber, as amended by law. I very much hope only to those who ask, and those who have a specific relationship with the tax authority - we tried to clarify that the other day - because it would not be good if any of the authorities or any of the systems that say they have had no involvement with the tax authority, because they are so small that they have no obligation to notify. However, I would be interested in this part, and obviously the author might be able to answer what they mean by that. Is there a demand for this? Or is there a demand for that? From the market regulation side, I'm sure the story has an impact, but overall, it wouldn't be a problem if we clarified that. So I can only say, ladies and gentlemen, and, as I have said, I will give Mr Secretary of State this 2-2.5 page, which I have brought to you, how we think it is, I will not get involved in his amendment now, because it has not made much sense, but I would like to see these problems - from the dairy market to this, I would not go through with it, I would not bore my fellow Members - in some way they would be included in this system if they had already brought us this law, which we had been promised in the spring, because one of the reasons for the rejection of both Parliamentary resolutions was that the government was preparing for this. I'll add, if I just look at the address and the one paragraph with the 20 percent interest in it, then it's included, but it's not just that part, but it's much wider than that. So we have this bill to improve, and we'll see what happens in the next two weeks with the things that I'm about to give to the Secretary of State, and then we'll decide what kind of voting behaviour we have. But I would add that there are several elements in this law that are truly eligible. If it were separate, I would say now that we would certainly vote for a lot of it, but if the whole thing stays that way, then the fact that we vote for it this way, in this form, is very unlikely. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-14-68	Thank you very much, Congressman Haughty. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2017-11-14-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Speaker. We are faced with a salad law, which would not be a problem in itself, because, by the end of the year, we often get similar legislation, and I was happy to see it, which is its title, that it will be about the competitiveness of agriculture. We have already made a proposal for a decision with similar content, at least similar to its title, as my fellow Member Zoltán Gőgös has just said, that they have submitted a similar one, and I was hoping that the title will reflect the content significantly. There is, indeed, a reduction in bureaucracy, and we support that, but it should have been much braver, in my opinion. As far as irrigation is concerned, we have no problem with it. I understand that action should be taken, and, as I have already said, it should have been done with bolder steps, since it allows the proportion of our irrigable areas to be so small that the amendment to it has been causing serious headaches to the profession, to politics for decades now, but we do not even take advantage of our opportunities, we do not make good use of it, so every step that might facilitate this is joyful. For example, in relation to soil and land protection, when I read that there was an amendment to this, I secretly hoped that we would go in the direction where, let us say, we take soil protection seriously and perhaps set an example in how, let us say, we can manage, or even improve, the quality of our soil in a sustainable way. Compared to this, it contains a small, but obviously important and positive amendment for those involved. The lack of courage in the contractual relationship is what I felt was most likely a lack of courage. I have already mentioned in the Commission's debate that what I can say about the National Council of the Mountains - as they have modified the contractual relationship last year - has not worked out in a positive way, and has far from achieved the effect that we had hoped for him, that is, that the buying-in prices of the grapes should be determined in such a way that it creates a predictable situation for the vineyards and that they do not have to worry about what has been produced this year, for example, in relation to the Great Plain and some wine regions, that they have not actually received the cost price for their vineyards. [[13.30]] I know that this is not the general trend in the whole country, and there are wine regions where, fortunately, this is not the case, but, as I mentioned above, the situation with regard to the Great Plain has become worse with the appearance or modification of the contractual relationship than before. So, in general, we would have expected a much more effective and courageous move in agriculture in this regard as well. I would also like to go to the hunting section, because the search scope is returned, or at least in terms of professional hunters, it is a thing that is definitely eligible, although I do not understand why it is only for professional hunters. I understand that the wildling must also have a chance, and this is an important aspect, but this is not about the weapon-mounted one. So I do not understand why we do not give this opportunity back to all hunters at all, because this is what often serves to protect the savage. For example, there is a way to identify whether it's a boar or a sow, or whether it's a wild animal, an individual, or a sex that you'd like to drop, or maybe something you'd allow to pass on. So, in many cases, the protection of the wild game would be to better identify it. That's how I'd extend it to every hunter. I would also like to emphasise here that, of course, it is not about thermal cameras, but specifically these search binoculars. Turning to the handgun, I'm a little confused here too, because we're now seeing a trend like this, that they're trying to take it out of circulation, so to speak, these handguns. Meanwhile, Balázs Győrffy indicates that this is a duplication. Then I hope you will help me understand in response, because I have received quite a lot of signals, that, for example, when a wounded pig gets in the thick of the crowd, in this way, it has been possible to approach him more safely with a handgun than with, say, a long-pipe shotgun or a bullet gun. I hope that this contradiction can then be resolved by Balázs Győrffy. But I could also say the possibility of dealing with poachers or tree thieves, because if you have to shoot someone in the leg with a shotgun from two meters away, because it's simply a situation, you can break your legs while you just, say, have them put down with a handgun. So here in this matter, I hope to get some answers, because I say there have been a lot of scared requests about this. We also agree with most of the forest changes, although we would have preferred it to include, for example, amendments that would also address the shortage of wood at national and brutal levels. I do not think enough to draw attention to this, not criticising the system of social firewood, and understanding that in many cases there are capacities in public forestry towards power plants, but we should resolve the absurd situation that I am thinking of in a major part of the country, especially in areas far away from large state forests, months should be allowed to wait for firewood, if, say, ready to buy it, and, in addition, a price that is quite amazing, especially if we consider the increase compared to last year. This should be handled. It is only possible, in our opinion, that, for example, subcontractors that have been chased away from public forestry for such reasons should have the courage to apply and recall to the forestry director in question, since the amount of wood standing on their feet shows that, at least, we have received figures that would suffice today in Hungary to resolve this huge difference between market demands and wood that can be purchased on fire, and thus alleviate this increase. So we would have preferred such amendments. Once again, I would like to underline that we have no problem with the amendments that have been made in this area, only that they could have been braver here. So, if it can be resolved, my fellow Member Győrffy will help me to resolve, say, my comments on the handgun, my problems of this kind, then I can say that we will make it dependent on our amendments tabled if we can support this amendment. I am also in the unfortunate situation that the Jobbik faction welcomes and supports a number of bureaucratic proposals, but here I would like to get answers to my comments and, of course, then we will look at how they stand with our amending proposals. So, unlike Zoltán Gőgös, I am still trying to formally submit these amendments, and then we will see how it turns out. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2017-11-14-70	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Magyar. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to comment in two minutes or longer. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, No further comments were therefore made. The general debate is closed. I see that the rapporteur, Mr Balázs Győrffy, is preparing to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2017-11-14-71	Yes, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I would like to thank my fellow opposition Members for their not fundamentally negative attitude. We have submitted this amendment set of amendments in a spirit that really facilitates the situation of people living in agriculture, even to a forintally measurable extent, because it is obviously rare to propose some parts of which are not at least critical. Here, let me say to my fellow Member, Haughty, provided, but not allowed, that there is a conflict of interest, I do not share your interpretation of the law, but let me make a promise here, in case we can find a solution. I promise to make an attempt to dissect this a little bit, and perhaps even find a way to reassure your spirituality here. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I am calm!]] By the way, let me refer you back to an earlier amendment of the law, I think I've shown my constructivity. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Absolutely, I referred to it.]] and your enlargement to the legislative amendment has been accepted, by the way, because it was indeed a sensible and good proposal. To my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, I would like to say that the use of night vision is a very fine question. We have tried to submit a proposal that supports society as a whole. If I can be honest and let me be honest, I agree with the extension that Congressman is saying. If we can reach a political consensus here that, where appropriate, this can be extended to sports hunters, and not only to professional hunters, I am happy to do so. However, I did not wish to generate an unnecessary political debate from this, but let me tell you that I agree with you on this. With regard to handguns, we have eliminated a duplication, so the possibility of using handguns will remain in the legislation, but will not be regulated in two places. I agree with what you're saying in this way, but it's more of a clarification effort. Obviously, we cannot alleviate the shortage of wood within the framework of this legislation. I think it would require much deeper intervention. For example, I would be delighted if we could apply the example in Austria in Hungary. Personally, I do not agree with the fact that, for example, from spring to autumn, substantial production work cannot be carried out in forests. It may be in Slovakia, in Austria. So the Hungarian farmers, because there is a shortage of workers, go over there, and excuse us, they smoke at us when we try to lure them back in winter, because they have a full-year job there, and they don't. So part of it is that it is not possible to produce it in one half of the year, and when it is possible to produce it, it is necessary to put lasso together those who are willing to do so. There are many solutions that could be found, but there are serious interests at stake here. [[István Jakab: Environmentalists.]] I've just given you your personal opinion. However, I trust that, if appropriate, we can create a situation by examining the substance of their amendments and, where appropriate, by adopting them, so that my fellow opposition Members can support this legislation. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-11-14-72	Thank you, Congressman Balázs Győrffy. Dear Parliament, They will have the opportunity to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law amending certain laws concerning the official supervision of the financial intermediary system will follow until closure. Government referral T/18317. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Ms Agnes Hornung, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda, who will now place his card in the machine and then give the floor. Madam Secretary, you have the floor. [[13.40]]
u2017-11-14-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, I would like to briefly present to you the bill amending certain laws concerning the official supervision of the financial intermediary system also presented by the President. The legislation in the bill before us aims to create a legal basis for the removal of the financial supervisory authority procedures of the Hungarian National Bank from the scope of the General Administrative Regulation Act. As is known, under the General Administrative Rules Act, the basic rules of administrative procedures will be changed as of 1 January 2018. This change introduces new rules that would prevent the National Bank of Hungary from interfering as quickly as possible in emergency situations in order to protect the interests of customers, especially consumers, and avoid greater losses. The financial intermediary system, as well as the priority importance and protection of customers, therefore required the establishment of a set of rules that also took into account the specific situation and special measures of the Hungarian National Bank. This bill therefore contains the necessary amendments to the legislation for this purpose. Dear Parliament, For all these reasons, I would like to ask you to support the bill tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-14-74	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Jenő Manninger, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-14-75	Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Secretary of State has already explained the reason for the amendment. Allow me to tell you more about the law. The proposal provides greater scope for sectoral regulation in matters falling under the authority of the MNB due to the high importance, protection and sectoral specificities of the financial intermediary system. Given the strict regulation of the area, it would be difficult to apply the regulation of Ákr. to the minimum of generality in the MNB's procedures. Such features include the specific nature of customers, the complexity of procedures, longer procedural deadlines or enforcement issues. Act on the MNB as amended by the proposal 46. Paragraph 1 of Section 1 defines precisely the types of cases in which detailed sectoral regulation is required. The logic of the regulation on the MNB's administrative procedure will be reversed by the amendments. The MNB Act 46. Paragraph 2 of Section 2 lists the name of the Ákr. the rules applicable to the procedures set out in paragraph 1; This solution clarifies the procedure-neutral rules of the Ákr. that do not require further sectoral regulation and that in the procedures the Ákr. its rules shall apply. Dear House, The proposal is the Hungarian National Bank Act 46. In addition to the cases set out in Section 5 of the Act, the MNB may reject applications in which cases: where the MNB has no jurisdiction, jurisdiction or jurisdiction; the application is for an impossible purpose; the application has exceeded the prescribed time limit; the application does not come from the applicant; it cannot be established from the content of the application that the case is an official matter. The proposal is set out in Article 48 of the National Bank Act. Article 4 (1) (1) is supplemented by the supervisory inspection point. In addition, the proposal clarifies in paragraph 4 that at the request of the MNB, the client is obliged to provide the information necessary for the decision, including personal and, where necessary, proprietary data. The proposal is set out in Article 49. The amendment to Section 3 states that in the MNB's official procedures, the application may not be submitted in person or at the government window. It also sets out the conditions under which the administrative deadline and the deficit will be replaced, and proposes amendments to that effect. It also states that the administrative deadline begins from the end of the deficit. The rules of the MNB Act also apply to rules relating to the suspension, suspension and termination of proceedings, not to Ákr. In view of the complexity, complexity and weight of the procedures, it is more appropriate to specify these rules in more detail than with Ákr. Proposal 49/A. By supplementing the provisions of Section 3, it sets out a subjective reason for excluding the parties to the proceedings in relation to the exclusion rules. A 49/B. By supplementing paragraph 3, it lays down rules for access to the file by transferring the market surveillance rules currently in force into the common provisions. The 49/C. By supplementing the section, Ákr. sets out the requirements for the decision in more detail and, in the next section, lays down the rules of insurance measures that may be necessary until substantive decisions are taken. The proposal is set out in Article 50/A of the National Bank Act. By amending Article 55 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, it lays down the rules on service and communication of decisions, followed by Article 55 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Paragraph 5 is regulated by the addition that, since enforcement measures against participants in the financial intermediary system may affect the economy as a whole, Ákr. In principle, its implementing rules do not apply only to the recovery of procedural fines and charges. In order to maintain prudent operation, it is necessary to exclude immediate legal protection in administrative proceedings against certain decisions of the MNB. The MNB may, on its own initiative, decide, if it considers it justified and does not jeopardise the prudent functioning of the financial intermediary system, to suspend the execution of the decision without a request to do so until a final decision has been taken by the court. 57/B. In Article 61, the proposal regulates the possibility of redress, whereas Article 61 provides for the right of appeal. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down, by means of implementing acts, the implementing acts adopted pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article and the implementing acts adopted pursuant to this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 7 (2). The proposal, by amending the MNB Act, will allow for a simplified closure of supervision, if appropriate guarantees are provided, of simple closure if an infringement is found. This is necessary because of the Akr. by way of derogation from the current rules, it makes the opening of an official procedure compulsory for the conclusion of official controls. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, I would like to ask you to support the proposal, which, in line with the procedural legislative changes that will enter into force as of 1 January 2018, will make the official supervision of the financial intermediary system, the MNB's procedures more rational, efficient and transparent, and will also serve the government's bureaucracy reduction objectives. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-14-76	Thank you very much, Congressman Jenő Manninger. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-11-14-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr. Vice President, Ladies and gentlemen, The person who reads the proposal is justified by the rapporteur in his reasoning by establishing a distinction between the MNB's procedures and the new general administrative order law. It could then be more precise in the explanatory statement, literally even in a way that, according to the MNB's wishes, the MNB would speak only about the establishment of more convenient, more flexible regulations for it, since it is not in doubt that the proposal is likely to have been made in the area of Liberty. Almost all rules provide much more space, much more flexibility and much more comfortable work for the central bank, not to mention the extension of deadlines. All facilitations are explained by the fact that the MNB's procedures are much more complicated. The rules on administrative silence are removed from each related sectoral law. So far, if the MNB has not examined an application within 30 days, it has been considered to have been granted, i.e. at least this 30-day deadline has pushed the central bank. The rapporteur did not provide an explanation that this provision would remain regulated elsewhere. You can see it's the new Akr. is facing serious problems before the entry into force. [[13.50]] The rules adapted to the MNB are drawn up at the last minute and their effectiveness is at least doubtful. This is mainly about unbelievable irresponsibleness after the broker scandals. And the central bank sets itself much more comfortable rules, a longer deadline, which is not justified by too much other than comfort. Therefore, the MSZP fraction will not support this amendment, because we do not believe that, after MNB employees' wage costs have increased by 1.5 times over the past period, they also need facilitations to avoid doing their job normally. Unfortunately, my immediate question with the Vice-President of the MNB was just yesterday, and my debate highlighted how much the MNB workers and their leaders had separated from the Hungarian reality, because if they could not save themselves from HUF 2.7 million and took on VIP loans, and they considered it normal, and they justify the need for such a high wage for MNB leaders because they want to surround themselves with smart people and good professionals, I still believe that good professionals in other professions should also be paid. And if the MNB were to do its job fairly and do its job normally, it would not only be theirs to pay competitively with the EU Member States, but also the other professions. I think that modesty would be seen on them, and there would be some goodwill in them, if they gave themselves such incredible wages, which an average Hungarian citizen could not possibly imagine if the Hungarian salary could reach the salaries of the European Union Member States in nurses, doctors or in any other profession. Until then, more modesty is needed, and they should not say that they need a good professional and a smart professional, and they should pay so much wages. I think we no longer need to teach MNB workers about hypocrisy and pompity, but we can see that in this bill we can at least provide them with more flexible deadlines so that they do not do their job well. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-14-78	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Member Imre Vejkey.
u2017-11-14-79	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In connection with the entry into force of the General Administrative Regulation Act on 1 January 2018, the necessary amendments to the law were agreed already in the spring of this year. The IM is the Ákr. has prepared its rules with a view to the procedures imposed, i.e., as a general rule, by Ákr. procedures not covered by the new regime should not be necessary. However, at the end of September 2017, Ákr came up. the need to avoid it. For each of the tasks of the MNB listed in the MNB Act, it is justified that the rules of procedure which take full account of the specialities of the MNB's official procedures apply, since these rules provide for procedural solutions that can guarantee the proper performance of the tasks and powers of the MNB. The Akr. The provisions of the MNB, which do not provide for a derogation, would reduce the effectiveness of the exercise of these tasks and powers, and therefore the establishment of this exceptional procedural framework is justified and correspond to those put forward in the bill. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the bill; please support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-80	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. I now give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-14-81	Thank you very much. I will try to express my speech as effectively as my fellow Member Vejkey. The aim of the regulation is to create the legal basis for the 2016 CL on the general administrative procedure of the Hungarian National Bank in connection with the official supervision of the financial intermediary system laid down in the Act on the National Bank of Hungary. in relation to its exclusion from the scope of law. Under the Central Bank Act, the Hungarian National Bank exercises continuous supervision over entities and persons subject to financial sector laws. In this context, it shall monitor the activities of financial and capital markets institutions, cash registers, insurance undertakings, financial infrastructure institutions, and, if necessary, take action, with the instruments of prudential supervision, i.e. business reliability, market supervision and consumer protection on the spot and on the spot. The purpose of the supervision is to identify and manage risks in a timely manner, in order to prevent them from endangering the stability of the system and the confidence in the financial intermediary system. This amendment contains detailed rules. The task of supervising the Hungarian National Bank would be not to amuse itself and to properly control the brokerage companies, as well as the various banks and other organizations, regardless of party affiliation. We have seen an example of when financial supervision failed, failed to perform its task, did not properly control or properly control the brokerage companies, and remember that in January-February-March 2015, three financial service providers, DRB Bank, Buda-Cash and Quaestor, fell in, leaving hundreds of billions of HUF damaged and tens of thousands of victims. He did so by being closely supervised by financial supervision. From December 2014 until January 2015, financial supervision was outside Quaestor, for example. We don't know what findings he made, but the fact is he was present. But what we do know is that a month later, a 220 billion-dollar company fell in, leaving 32 thousand victims. By the way, Jobbik had already made amendments to the law, which would have provided a real solution to the prevention of financial abuses. In May 2015, several legislative proposals were submitted by Jobbik. The aim of the amendments was to make the investigation methods of the Hungarian National Bank for financial market supervision more effective and to prevent financial abuse. All three amendments were voted off by the majority of the government. Our three legislative proposals - if they allow me to explain this in two minutes, although not related to this bill - Jobbik had proposals that could have prevented what had led to the collapse of brokerage firms. In order to make the control activities of the Hungarian National Bank more effective, we would have amended the laws on individual financial matters, which would have been one of our proposals; the other would have amended the law on credit institutions and financial undertakings in order to make the audit of financial institutions more effective; the third had the title of the amendment of the law on credit institutions and financial undertakings necessary to prevent financial abuses. Once again, in 2015, the pro-government majority swept them off the table, even though they could have helped prevent similar cases. There have been numerous restrictions on monitoring methodology, new tracking system, penalty items - up to HUF 2 billion in penalties - on reporting obligations, data records and reporting frequency, as well as on a number of efficiency-enhancing and audit control proposals. Since these were not adopted at the time, we can continue to say that different detailed rules can be made and that they can change the system of financial supervision, but we will not achieve a real efficiency breakthrough. I suggest that the government take into account the opposition proposals in the future - at least in the few months that you will be in government position - and that you follow our proposals like this in the future. That's all I wanted to say about the bill. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-14-82	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Kepli. Before speaking, I will give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr in two minutes.
u2017-11-14-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When it comes to amending certain laws concerning the authority oversight of the financial intermediary system, and reading the draft law, it comes to mind that draft laws are already being written in Freedom Square. [[14.00]] I'm not saying that sentence at random. Simply because it seems to me that the draft law confirms it, not only suggests it, but also confirms that everything can be different within the framework of the National Bank, that everything can be done within a more flexible framework, or that everything can be done under different deadlines, as is generally the case with other regulations and other legislative frameworks. My fellow Member, Mr Hering, also spoke about the terrible differences in remuneration and the fact that, within the framework of the National Bank, we can almost hear leading figures saying that it is not possible to find good professionals for a monthly salary of HUF 4-5 million. I would like to say the following in two sentences. If in Hungary more than 2 million people will be okay, whose monthly earnings per capita will be at least in excess of the minimum amount of living each year, and tax payments based on it, then there is no room for such sentences, but I will begin to understand the suggestion of such sentences - until it is okay, not. My second sentence is that all kinds of regulations, concessions and many other things are wrong and unsustainable, even in the case of the National Bank. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-14-84	Thank you, Congressman, notary. I give the floor to Gergely Bárándy, who has applied for a speech.
u2017-11-14-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I asked for the floor in principle because I would like to highlight what is a problem with legislation. In a few words, I will also discuss what my fellow Members have said before me, as regards the substance, namely, where it comes from and whether this law is good. However, I would like to point out that this law is today the second one that Parliament is discussing and the Akr. amends its text or related legislation. The Akr. It will enter into force on 1 January 2018, and it is quite incomprehensible why the Ministry of Justice cannot codify so that it does not have to modify the great codes here several times later, even if they have not yet entered into force. The other problem is, and here I am also referring a little bit to what my fellow Member, Mr Gúr, and Congresswoman Anita Heringes, said about where this proposal really came from. If it really came from the government, why couldn't it be incorporated into the two draft laws submitted by the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office of János Lázár on 7 November. It amends Ákr. and its related legislation at a number of points. Could it not be built because this law bears the names of administrative bureaucracy and the other ones, and this is not about that? I would like to say, Madam Secretary, that this is not about that either. What bears this title has nothing to do with the reduction of administrative bureaucracy, and this proposal could have easily been included. I'm guessing there's some communication going on within the government. So if Ákr. and its related laws were to be amended, then it would only be good to do so because of the coherence of the legal system, not to do so in a hundred laws, but to try to sum it up and introduce it; if, by the way, it is necessary to do so before the entry into force. [[In the notary seat Dr. István Tiba will be replaced by Attila Gelencsér, István Ikotity Nándor Gúr.]] But I think this also refers to what, once again, my fellow Members have spoken about where this proposal comes from. It also points out that the Secretary of State has not taken two minutes to present the content of this proposal. And I'm gonna say again, referring to the circumstances, they're also suggesting that they're proving that it's actually from the MNB. I wouldn't even have a problem, Madam Secretary, with the MNB's proposals being basically channeled to Parliament by the economic wallet. I have a problem with the fact that so far, the Hungarian National Bank, which has turned out to be a bill - let me put it this way - either from the economic wallet or from individual Members of Parliament, was all about making the central bank something better or doing something better for central bank managers. That is what my fellow Members have referred to. To mention the two most critical examples, the first such law was when György Matolcsy's salary was raised from 2 to 5 million forints, just as the other central bank leaders were simultaneously, and the other one was the famous individual motion, which is obviously remembered by all of us, since the Constitutional Court destroyed it. Since then, perhaps with an appropriate expression, the central bank has been running after its money, which, in the case of foundations, would have provided for the loss of public money in order not to be able to find out in the form of public interest data requests what these foundations are actually spending this money on. Ever since this happened, it's been a scandal. And now, once again, we have a proposal that, once again, based on the history I have told you, also comes from the central bank. And what do we experience in this? That there are provisions that are good for the central bank again. I would very much like to see a proposal here, proposed by the Central Bank, which is not good for them, but good for the citizens; which does not facilitate the work of the Central Bank, but, let us say, improves the situation of foreign exchange lenders. Because he could suggest this, for example, because he exercises supervisory powers in the case of banks. So, Madam Secretary, I have these two problems with this proposal. Obviously, I agree with my fellow Members that this cannot be supported. One of them is that someone else, specifically György Matolcsy, ordered them to make it better for them. The second is that you are unable to achieve legal coherence at government level. And I say this to Mr Secretary of State, because he is here on behalf of the judicial portfolio, that he is unable to do a coherent legal system, where everything does not have to be corrected. Minister Trócsányi gave a rather long speech on the day of the lawyers, where he praised the results of the Ministry of Justice. Well, obviously I would have had a lot of discussions with him, but I would have asked him the main question, however, about the quality of the legislation that the Minister considers to be legislation, and I am asking you this now, Mr Secretary, because you are here to discuss such legislative proposals two or three a day, because you are unable to put high-quality material on the table. What does he consider to be the need to correct proposals from the Ministry of Justice in most places and at most points because of problems with language positioning, clarification and coherence? So I think that what is happening here in this House on this proposal, even on the previous proposal, is also happening on a next proposal, which is what it is about, and this is a bad practice. It would be good to change this, the quality of the legislation; and, Madam Secretary, also that the Hungarian National Bank always orders laws from you or the government representatives that serve its interests. You could ask me once, Mr. Matolcsy, would you have a proposal that is not for your benefit, but for your citizens? Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-14-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Agnes Hornung, who is obviously preparing to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2017-11-14-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to respond briefly to the comments raised. I don't want to engage in legal-dogmatic disputes because I'm not in charge. I see that there is a single system and everyone is striving to achieve coherence and unity. However, we know that this is impossible, because there are special institutions that require special procedures. Among other things, this is the supervisory authority of the National Bank, which carries out a specific activity in the field of the financial intermediary system. In order to ensure consumer protection every minute, a much faster response is needed than would otherwise be required by procedural rules for the general administration as a whole. That is why it was necessary to make certain changes to this system, since the primary objective is to protect consumers and to give the right response in the right time and way. This is what this bill serves, and that is why we would like to ask for your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.10]]
u2017-11-14-88	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Agnes Hornung. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on greater protection against sexual violence against children under the age of 12 will follow up until closure. tabled by Gabriella Selmeczi, Róbert Répássy and László Horváth, representatives of Fidesz, T/18275. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi, the rapporteur on the agenda.
u2017-11-14-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me start by talking very briefly about the history. In recent years, the judicial practice has repeatedly reduced sexual violence against children, even when the pedophile perpetrator was a relative of the child or the child was under his supervision. The Curia has given strict guidance to the courts in good faith and in the interest of increased protection for children, but it has exceeded its own powers. Therefore, the Constitutional Court, also fulfilling its obligation, annulled the relevant guidelines of the Curia, but also gave Parliament the opportunity to tighten up the law. The constitutional protection of children is also included in the Fundamental Law. The Fundamental Law of Hungary protects families and children in particular, including the right of children to protect and care for physical, mental and moral development. The Fundamental Law also clearly states that our children are the guarantees of successful Hungary. For this reason, criminal pedophiles who endanger the physical, mental or moral health of our children are, in fact, threatening the future of Hungary. Fidesz and KDNP are committed to supporting childbearing and child rearing. However, in addition to supporting childbearing and child rearing, the state must also protect children, if necessary, by means of criminal law. So it is not enough to support it by means of family policy, but, if necessary, it is also necessary to step up the instruments of criminal law, if necessary, in criminal law. What is this proposal about, this motion I've tabled? - and thank you very much for the people who have so far joined the motion. The criminal code amendment before us now is a clear tightening up. The point of the motion is that if the perpetrator is a relative of the child or the child's education, supervision, care, treatment or otherwise is under the influence or influence of his authority, he should be punished by prison sentences of up to 5-15 years, regardless of - and this is a very important question - that the act was committed by coercion or with the consent of the child. In other words, we establish the presumption that a child under the age of 12 is incapable of expressing his will. On the part of the Fidesz-KDNP, we find the abuse of children unacceptable. Sexual crimes committed to the harm of children are, in a moral and moral sense, the most serious crimes, of which actions should be punished in particular when the perpetrator is the one who should take care of the child. Such perpetrators, who abuse a child's trust, should only be subjected to the strictest action. Here, my fellow Member, László Horváth, used to say that I fully agree that this is the ugliest kind of betrayal, when someone uses it exactly as a trust, someone abuses it by trusting a child, because they have entrusted this child to take care of it - I agree. Allow me to say a few words about the background of this Btk. amendment, since we have been sitting here in Parliament for a long time, we know that we have taken, modified, tightened laws to increase the safety of children in all areas of life. I would just like to mention, in a few words, that, for example, our new criminal code is a more stringent punishment for crimes against children. Then, the immeasurability of sexual abuse to the harm of minors entered into force in December 2014. According to this independent motion, sexually assaulted minors, paedophile crimes in general, will not lapse. On 1 January 2017, the package of amendments affecting not only Btk., but mostly child protection laws, social laws, family law, health law - this was a comprehensive amendment - tabled by my fellow Member, László Horváth. Here, just taking a few examples, I feel very important that we have modified, for example, the professional methodology published on the Ministry's website. The purpose of this amendment is to use professional methods for the operation and operation of the child protection signalling system to act as members of the signalling system, thereby facilitating uniform action in the interests of the child at risk. Here I would say that it is very important that we act as soon as possible in the interests of the child, and it is also very important that the assistance provided to the child or, where appropriate, to the family be as effective and as rapid as possible. Then we had such a change in the custody process to deal with the joint affairs of the brothers raising together. It was an important amendment that the rapid and decisive action of the guardianship authority in the interests of the child or of the person under the care of the guardian should also be supported by the amendment that it is not possible to hold a hearing, to hold a hearing, and that, in order to do so, there should be no prior introduction, prior approval of the prosecutor, if immediate action is required. Then there is an amendment that prohibits the refusal of care in the case of minors in respect of the healthcare provided by the child health care provider and the health care provider. This is also very important, as we are talking about the basic pillars of the child protection warning system, the home pediatrician and the protective woman. Then we had to make it clear that, as a member of the child protection signalling system, workers in the health sector are also governed by the rules of the Child Protection Act. This provision will help basic health care workers to comply with their obligation to signal. Today, a few hours ago, the Hungarian Parliament adopted - with the exception of three of our fellow Members - the mandatory final application of the ban on occupation. [[14.20]] This is about the fact that if a judge says that a minor or a minor is committing a sexual offence, he is also obliged to apply a permanent ban on employment as an additional punishment. Thank you very much for your cooperation. Returning to the individual motion tabled before us now, I would like to say once again, we feel very important that we say it in the Criminal Code: an indestructible presumption that if a sexually motivated crime is committed at the expense of a child under 12 years of age, it is not necessary, nor can it be proved, that the child has consented to a relative or a child in charge when it comes to power relations. So if this child, a family member, is entrusted to someone, is entrusted with supervision, whatever power relations he has with this person, it is possible to punish the perpetrator more severely, so that it is not possible to punish him with a prison sentence of 5 to 10 years, but should have a ceiling of 15 years. And, as I said, don't let the perpetrator of the pedophile try and prove, where appropriate, that the child in charge has consented to this violent sexual act. No way. A child under 12 should be taken without consent or consent, since he does not know what is happening to him. He couldn't agree to this crime, so it's a qualifying circumstance in itself. Ladies and gentlemen, Sexual crimes against children are therefore the most morally and morally serious. Among these, the acts of the unsub who should take care of the child are extremely criminal. Our proposal, which lies before us, is the same as that of the Curia's law unit decision last November, i.e. that, regardless of the fact that the defendant committed the act by force or with the consent of the victim, the perpetrator may be punished by imprisonment of up to 15 years. In fact, the Constitutional Court gave the Hungarian Parliament the opportunity to amend the Criminal Code to this end and in this spirit. I'd like your support, please. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-14-90	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to speak on behalf of the government now or later. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] State Secretary Pál Völner indicates that he is now. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-14-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government supports the motion. Please accept it.
u2017-11-14-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr László Horváth, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-14-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It seems like we're having our exchange of views, our discussion last night. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the uniform support that has been expressed here in Parliament today in relation to child protection. This is joyful, because I believe that there is a matter, in my opinion and in my belief, in its importance, in its importance, in which we are able, in spite of our differing opinions, to declare the will of the legislator in a uniform manner. This 98 percent support, which we have today received in our proposal to improve the protection of children, indicates this. Thank you for that. I very much hope that the proposal we are looking at will receive similar support, even if there are also differences of opinion. In all such proposals for the protection of children, we need to clarify the starting point again and again, because this cannot and must never get bored and must never be neglected. The basic principle is that the right of the child to safety, the right to protection, precedes all other rights, is higher than anything else. It is also essential that the state's supply obligation is perhaps the strictest, most responsible obligation. It is also a basic statement that all kinds of violence against the child must be combated and, if necessary, strict and strict rules must be adopted. As I always say, there is no excuse here, so the person who uses violence against children, if necessary, must act with the full force. Obviously, the best child protection is to support all areas of life where the child appears as the main character, because the child is always the main character. The best child protection step is support for families, support for public education and public education systems, strengthening and developing the social care system. At the same time, we must always strengthen the system for protecting the child. Because violence in life always produces cases, dramas, tragedies - just think of the terrible news of the past period, events that have fallen into children's lives and have caused tragedies - carried on by children throughout their lives, never passing away and can never be taken off as a burden. Not to mention, if you become a victim or a serial victim, potentially later, and this is the most unfair drama of life, you can be a perpetrator. How life describes this tragic and dark scenario is no better example than a newspaper article in front of me today and which relates to our subject. His subtitle is that he forced him to confess to someone else, and his headline is that he drugged and got his 13-year-old daughter pregnant. And the roundness of the belly of the 13 - year - old girl was noticed by the homeroom teacher, who was accused of getting the girl pregnant by her father, who drugged the girl before she got pregnant. We need to touch criminal law again and again, or the regulation of the child protection signalling system, if such cases are to be encountered. Of course, it is enough to save such a case, to save a life, not to give up a single life, and not to contribute to the maiming of a single life. What had to be said about sexual violence as the most despicable crime against children, I said yesterday. With regard to the current proposal, I would like to make it clear that the Fidesz faction is also in favour of the strictest action in this case against people who committed sexual crimes, who, as my fellow Member said earlier - and I fully agree with that - are in extreme abuse of the situation, the power and influence situation that they have been given. [[14.30]] Whether it is a parent, whether it is a caregiver, a healer, or any aspect of it, there is no excuse for imposing punishment on the perpetrator of sexual violence or for other incidental consequences. We agree that it is not possible to take into account whether or not the victim has cooperated; it is absurd at all to suggest that a victim would agree to commit violence against and against him. If I look at this case only today, then the question can't be justified to me and many of us. And we do not consider it appropriate to maintain the option provided for by this current regulation. We believe that the proposal submitted complies with the requirements set out in the Constitutional Court's decision and is also suitable for achieving the goal set by the Curia and is fully in line with the policy of child protection that we have been consistently pursuing for years and that has been consistently achieved by the government for years. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-94	Thank you very much, Congressman László Horváth. I now give the floor to Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP group. You have the floor.
u2017-11-14-95	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's a pity that there's a faction that isn't in the children's interest, perhaps the most important issue here in Parliament. I am pleased that Congressman Horváth did not want to get involved in the competition of who hates child abusers more and who did more about it under his governance, because I think that from 1990, and I can even say that, even before that, all governments have treated this topic as a priority and considered this matter extremely important. We held it, and we'll keep it going. As far as the concrete bill is concerned, as Congresswoman Selmeczi has said, it has indeed happened that it has caused and still causes serious problems in the application of judicial law, even to this day, that the legislator has not properly regulated the cases of sexual violence committed to harm persons under the age of 12. This was due to the fact that, with the entry into force of the new Criminal Code, there has been a change in the criminal law regulation of rape, and it is likely that there has been a mistake that this classified case has not been properly formulated. This legislative error was attempted by the Curia to remedy a resolution of a legal unit, but the Constitutional Court declared it against the law and, with effect from 31 October 2017, annulled the decision of the Criminal Unit on the interpretation of sexual violence committed against a person under 12 years of age. In the explanatory statement of the Constitutional Court's decision, the Parliament decided to re-evaluate the classifications of sexual crimes committed to harm children, which it also opened up with the possibility of future annulment. To me, it is strange, perhaps the Secretary of State, that the Government has not tabled an appropriate proposal. In view of this, and it seems that this has been felt by several of us, since Mrs Szabó Timea also has a bill tabled on a similar subject, I myself tabled on 30 October 2017 an individual representative's motion to amend the Criminal Code Act in order to improve the protection of children. In fact, taking into account the deadline laid down in the legal unit decision, I asked that the Judicial Committee take up the agenda at its meeting on 7 November 2017 and take the legislative proposal into consideration. This was rejected by the committee by the fact that on this very day and therefore on 7 November, Mrs Selmeczi also submitted a proposal, which we are discussing here. Then, at the last meeting of the Justice Committee, these two bill proposals were discussed directly. I'd just like to point out one thing, which, if you will, I don't consider positive. It is that these two bill proposals could have been negotiated together, but it might have been worth considering both of them. Not only because I submitted it earlier, because from this point of view it doesn't matter who submitted it a week sooner or later, but because I proposed a solution that is different from what we are discussing now, from a legal point of view, so from a professional point of view, and to the best of my knowledge, my proposal to the judges of the Curia on this issue is in agreement. Obviously, she has also agreed with the profession, so both proposals could be valid, but it would have been a good thing if we could have arrived here in the parliamentary debate to see which is the better proposal and which is what the profession would prefer to accept. I asked him then, or I wanted to ask the representative of the Ministry of Justice present, what his professional problem with mine was, why he considered this proposal better. I did not get an answer then, perhaps, Mr State Secretary, if you listen to me, you can now answer this question, namely, why you consider this to be better, worse, or why you do not consider it to be eligible at least at a level that can be included in a series of subjects. The main difference between the two proposals is that my legislative proposal would introduce an even more stringent qualified case than the one currently contained. According to this, it would not be a maximum of 15 years, but would be punishable by imprisonment for 5-20 years or life if more people committed the crime on the same occasion, knowing each other's activities, to the injury of a person under 12 years of age. And if Congressman László Horváth said that Fidesz was in favour of the strictest action, then it would mean supporting my proposal. Because my proposal envisages more stringent sanctions than the proposal by Mrs Selmeczi, which, by the way, can no doubt address this problem, thus introducing the classified case into the Btk. All in all, I would like to point out that it would have been a good thing if, indeed, we had defined the strictest penalty for these acts and not a milder one. If Fidesz is in favour of strict criminal policy, I believe that this proposal should be supported. We who, compared to you, say you, do not always consider this to be true, but we prefer a more liberal criminal policy, if that is what we think it is, then why do not you? All the more so, because, to the best of my knowledge, I would like to ask the Secretary of State, and I would be glad to hear from you in the debate, because I understand that the National Court of Justice proposes an amendment to this law, and the subject of this amendment is precisely what the difference between us and our proposals is. In other words, it should not be 15 years, but 20 years or life imprisonment. Madam President, if you think I would be very happy to present this as an amendment to your proposal - I mean the recommendation of the OBH, if that is true, Mr Secretary of State - but even if not, I would be happy to present such an amendment. I would be happy if you could support it, and then I can really say that we could accept it as a joint proposal, which you have put forward and, in fact, in substance, we would be able to put ourselves on a platform completely. In fact, the difference in judgment is the following from a professional point of view: I agree so much with what you have said in terms of consent for persons under the age of 12 that criminal law has been treating this matter for many years, perhaps decades - exactly this codification error in this regard. So what criminal law says is that, first of all, in cases where a person has not reached the age of 12, it cannot be said that he agrees to anything, so according to previous rules it should be considered violent intercourse, according to today's concept it should be considered sexual violence. This is evident, and this is a solution that has been frozen in criminal law for a long time - quite rightly. I'm just saying that I had it a long time ago - and I would like it to be now - the distinction is that if such a person is forced to do such an act by force, it should be a so-called hyperqualified case, as has been before. [[14.40]] So what I can tell you is that the most serious judgment was that if you were not 12 years of age, more people, education, supervision and others... or forced to do so by force. This, I think, is worth controlling in a hyperqualified case, then there is the principle of gradualness in the Btk. And I can tell you that I have criticized the new Btk. in many places, and I have praised it in many places; this is one of the points where I am doing the latter. Today, it is possible to have a punishment framework that gives the judge unheard of freedom to weigh. 'Cause there's a five to 20-year sentence, plus life sentence. So that means the judge can give you anything from five to life in prison. In other words, in individual cases, the judge may consider that it is indeed necessary to impose the most serious penalty, or to impose a slightly lighter penalty, which is justified. Therefore, this framework, which can be considered as a relatively indeterminate sentence framework, is almost indeterminate, since in such a case no one is obviously giving less than five years, so it could have been simply said that, let me put it this way, from zero to twenty years, because there is obviously no sane person going below five in the case of such acts, but it is almost possible to catch an indefinite or indeterminate sentence framework here, I think it would be justified to apply it here. So what I would simply like to suggest is that if the OBH really agrees - in this respect, the opinion of the Mansion and the OBH is the first priority - let us try to include this classified case in the legislation. If this does not happen, make no mistake, we will still support this proposal. So we are indeed correcting a legislative error here, and I say that there is a huge interest in this House's adoption and entry into force as soon as possible. So I would ask you, honourable Member, to consider the arguments that I have just said, together the arguments that we still have on the part of the profession in this respect, and together to establish a position that will be the best for everyone, the best, and, as my fellow Member Horváth has said, indeed the strictest action against the perpetrators of such despicable acts. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-14-96	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Bárándy. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2017-11-14-97	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about an extremely important subject, and we have a very important bill ahead of us. Obviously, I do not wish to repeat what my fellow Member Gabriella Selmeczi said as rapporteur and what my fellow Member László Horváth said as a keynote speaker, but I would like to stress that Fidesz-KDNP has always paid particular attention to the physical, mental and spiritual protection of children in its policy. The criminal code adopted in 2013 and subsequent amendments and the rigour of government measures clearly reflect this. This amendment - a step in the increased criminal protection of children - expresses the intention that the sexual act committed to harm children under the age of 12, if the perpetrator is a relative of the victim or the victim is under his or her authority or influence in any way, whether the act was committed by coercion or with the consent of the victim, should be more severely punishable. Fidesz-KDNP considers the abuse of children unacceptable, as these acts are the most moral and moral of all. I was very pleased that my fellow Member, Mr Gergely Bárándy, supported this bill, as I understand it, and accepted these positions. It should be pointed out, too, when the unsub is a person who should just take care of the child and abuse this care, he abuses the trust that parents and the child feed on him. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Constitutional Court 2/2016 on the interpretation of sexual violence against persons under 12 years of age. 19/2007 on the establishment and annulment of the basic law of a criminal unit decision. By decision of Ab, it was annulled by Decision No 2/2016. a decision of the criminal unit of law. The Curia is 1/2017. By its decision No 2/2016 of the General Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union adopted its Rules of Procedure and its Rules of Procedure on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data. The decision of the Criminal Unit No 1 was Ladies and Gentlemen, Following the Ab resolution just presented, in order to continue the priority child protection policy, the Btk became necessary. 197. the amendment to Section 5 of the Act. The bill contains this amendment as an amendment by the Btk. 197. § 4 (a) to comply with the applicable criteria of the BJE, allowing the perpetrator to be subjected to a sexual act of abuse under the age of 12, if the victim is a relative of the victim, or the victim is under his/her education, supervision, care, treatment or otherwise under his/her authority or influence, regardless of whether the act was committed by coercion or with the consent of the victim, to be threatened with imprisonment of up to 5 to 15 years. Ladies and Gentlemen, The parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the bill; please support it. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the MSZP.]]
u2017-11-14-98	Thank you, Congressman Imre Vejkey. I now give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-14-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to point out that, of course, our group will support this bill, and I would also like to point out that we will also support Gergely Bárándy's amendments, which he has just tabled, if he does so. I do not wish to repeat what we have heard from all the speakers, that it is actually the most serious crimes, and that is why - not from a legal point of view, but from a professional point of view - even another amendment to be tabled, because, once again, it is not a legal, professional point of view, but, in fact, especially in cases referred to by the amendment of the law, when a person commits a sexual offence against a child under the age of 12 in his own care, it is true that there is, in fact, a kind of murder here. This isn't about taking a life, it's actually about a very serious and very violent crime committed on a personality. We could also say that at some level this child's soul is killed when these acts are committed. That is why the case is qualified, and it is justified that the power of the law should act with the utmost rigour against these perpetrators. [[14.50]] In many cases - in my studies, we have studied criminal law - in the Criminal Code and in criminal law it is understandable that there is a kind of preventive nature of that measure. Unfortunately, I have to say that my professional conviction tells me that in these cases, unfortunately, we cannot talk about preventive nature, because the person who does these acts is already a person with a distorted personality, a sick person who will not really consider me for this act before committing an act - I am not talking about Hungary, I am talking about other countries - to be executed. Then he is in such a state and has such a distorted personality, he has such a sick soul that he probably will not consider them, but social justice requires that the law strike these perpetrators in the strictest way. We need to look elsewhere for prevention instruments on this subject. As Gabriella Selmeczi said, we need to look for prevention solutions in other areas. One step of this could be the bill negotiated yesterday and adopted today with a great consensus, to prevent even the possibility of entrusting the care of a person with children up to 12 years of age to whom he may commit such abuses. The child protection warning system has also been mentioned. Yes, the warning system for child protection is very important, because unfortunately it can be said that in most cases these acts, which this amendment is now about, usually do not take place within institutional frameworks for children under the age of 12, but, unfortunately, in many cases, they happen in the family. A well-functioning child protection warning system could be the one that can prevent these cases. The prevention of these cases can be done by noticing at the first small signs, it is already at the first small signs, and at the first small signs it takes the steps, even the most serious measures, that the child, before these acts occur, will be taken from the family. Just remember that to strengthen the child protection signalling system, it is not enough to tighten the laws, to cíze the laws as much as possible, and to regulate the operation of the system as much as possible in laws and other laws, other methodologies and other descriptions, but also to strengthen the system. I would like to open a very wide gate, I wouldn't want to go further, but I would just like to mention one or two things that are the respect of the profession. This includes the introduction of a social career model. This will allow the right number of people to participate in child protection or in the child protection signalling system. This includes, as I have said many times, the sanctioning and serious sanctioning of members of the child protection signalling system in the event of failure to comply with their signaling obligations. There is also another way of prevention - this no longer concerns the professional area of child protection, but concerns other areas - in order to reduce sexual crimes against children. I have also mentioned this in a lot of debates, and we have also proposed that although it is not a European legal order where this measure and this thing exists, the United States of America should, on some level, somehow transpose and adapt to the European and Hungarian legal environment, create the possibility of having the residence of the perpetrators of these crimes known at some level. Of course, I also accept the arguments that, in particular, in the way it works in the United States, that I know exactly where this perpetrator lives, we probably cannot do that in the European legal environment, but we could really introduce a milder degree of this. If I already know those regions, geographically, I know about where I should expect to see where I have to look even more closely, whether my underage child or the ladies have even more attention to travel in the evening in the dark or at other times, then this could be a kind of preventive force. We give them an opportunity to give parents or more vulnerable women a means to better protect themselves, to know what parts of the city need to be more attentive to protect them, whether their families or their children. So we need to be more complex with this story. Of course, I agree perfectly with what I have already said, that the law must strike these perpetrators as harshly as possible, but once again, on the basis of my professional arguments, I do not believe in the nature of this prevention, but we need to build up other prevention tools and systems in order to be able to act effectively. I know it's an illusion and a dream to get it back to zero, but the fewer cases that can happen against anyone, but more and more carefully, anyone can commit sexual crimes against children under 12 years of age. Thank you for listening.
u2017-11-14-100	Thank you, Congressman Cutter Sebestyén. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2017-11-14-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, Gergely Bárándy, told me that on 30 October he had tabled a proposal for individual representatives. This is only important because, in my opinion and in our view, it is worth combing together the things that can come together. Unfortunately, at the time, as he mentioned, it was not possible to include it in a series of subjects, although it would probably have been a good idea, since we could talk about it today. The individual MEPs tabled by him were still more serious or even more serious in terms of wording towards the strictest penalties. This is what my fellow Member Horváth has been talking about, and I say this sentence to the effect that children under the age of 12 have no or no limit to the crime of sexual violence, so the most serious penalties must be imposed. Here, 15 years, my fellow Member Bárándy's proposal, are also discussed between 5 and 20 years of age and, where appropriate, life imprisonment. Yes, sexual violence and crime against such children are a level of abuse of the situation that must be severely punished. I fully agree with everyone who has said that in the House. A life is being destroyed in this regard, and it cannot be allowed. Children's safety and safety must be ensured. The only reason I spoke is because I can't be charged with not having a critical edge in the direction of your bill. But now I say that this is the minimum that needs to be done in this regard. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-11-14-102	Thank you, Congressman, notary. [[For signal:]] Thank you, Gergely Bárándy, for correcting yourself, for the proper speech.
u2017-11-14-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be extremely brief, I wouldn't even take two minutes. I would just like to ask the Secretary of State to present his letter to the President of the OBH. I am saying this because I just received the letter from Madam President during the debate that she sent it to the Ministry of Justice. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] I do not know if the Secretary of State does not have it, we will obviously not be able to discuss it here in the debate, but then I would ask the Secretary of State to present it at the stage of the detailed debate or to do us the favor of sending us the position of the OBH before the stage of the detailed debate, so that we can work with it. [[15.00]] I didn't get the amendment, I just got a presentation, a letter from the president of the OBH that he sent it to you, but he didn't tell me what it was and didn't tell me. That is why, with all due respect, I would ask the Secretary of State to send it to the factions so that we can work on it. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-14-104	Thank you, Congressman Bárándy. The next speaker is MEP László Horváth, Fidesz.
u2017-11-14-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm probably not gonna fill out my two minutes either, but I just want to respond to a few things that have been said. I absolutely agree with Sebestyén Vácsó that the role, deterrent role and preventive role of regulation in these appalling, truly shocking tragedies do not really exist. However, we can never give up on giving children protection with the rigour of criminal law. In this case, what I was talking about, when, by the way, a 13-year-old girl is pregnant by a father who regularly drugged her every night, she falls asleep or faints and commits rape. The child is born, the girl's mother does nothing at the same time, and the pregnant girl, or the mother, must now say that the child is from a young man. That's where the signal system comes in, and the homeroom teacher realizes that the girl's belly is round when everything is irreversible. Obviously, the psychological wound is incurable. But it is true, and it is not necessarily a question of money, it is indeed a question of clear rules and a clear model of cooperation that the signalling system can detect trouble even when the victim cannot, dare not, can not signal, but the signs, if you like, are not verbal signs. In such cases, the members of the signalling system have a very rapid and decisive obligation to act. I personally agree that the identity of such perpetrators should be known, so that we can know those who have committed such outstanding crimes. By the way, I note that in this case he first confessed - and I say she is 13 years old, so she is not under 12 years old - that the 13-year-old mother confessed, and only later changed her testimony that she wanted it, too, with her consent. Thank you very much. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2017-11-14-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP Group, for a two-minute speech.
u2017-11-14-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be very brief, too. I would like to draw attention to two things. On the one hand, the legislative mechanism, which would have been reflected in the fact that, on the other hand, the majority of governments or the fidesz majority have not swept off the legislative initiative of the MSZP without thinking about it, unfortunately, we have come to the point where we should welcome it. Of course, Fidesz did not lie so much, because they were not actually willing to negotiate the bill we submitted, but at least they submitted a proposal of their own to solve the problem we have indicated. I would just also like to focus or refer to what I think my fellow Member Barondy has quite rightly submitted, which would introduce an even more stringent case. This would have been about the fact that a sentence of between 5 and 20 years or life imprisonment would have been punishable if more people committed the crime on the same occasion as the person under 12 years of age, knowing each other's activities. My fellow Member Bárándy has already mentioned in his speech that this is the principle of gradualness. I think that's very welcome. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-14-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, on behalf of the Government, Mr Secretary of State has also indicated his intention to speak. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-14-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Only a few questions have been asked, and do not remain unanswered. I will look into this OBH letter, so at the time of the committee meeting, I think that we can already talk about this in substance with the Member. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Thank you very much.]] As far as the proposal is concerned, it is practically Btk. In its current system of coherence - because we must not only look at this fact in itself, but also at the whole system of criminal law - we see this proposal as more coherent on the basis of weighting if I can conclude the debate on my own. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-14-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask my colleague, Gabriella Selmeczi, as rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-11-14-111	Mr President, Thank you so much for the opportunity. After continuing the professional debate on this bill, I would not go into its depth yet, but let me make one or two points here at this stage of the general debate. Dear colleague Gergely Bárándy, Allow me to say that it is not true here that there was a legislative error in the creation of the new criminal code. The problem was that the Curia interpreted the facts contrary to the law, and the Constitutional Court annulled it. Otherwise, this is clearly stated in the explanatory memorandum to the bill. The Constitutional Court has clearly stated in its decision that the legislation currently in force is coherent, normal, these are the basic conditions and not the new Btk. It's a relief compared to the old Btk. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Missed.]] This is clearly included in the Ab Decision. The Constitutional Court referred only naturally to the fact that the legislator, so we in Parliament, can decide on it, and we can decide on it, not that it regulates classified cases differently than the one in force, but that it did not make it compulsory. But we've decided, and all the factions are going that way, so I see that we're going to have different rules on classified cases, which means we need to tighten up the rating factors. I believe that we will continue the professional debate, but let me make one more comment. Congressman Bárándy's proposal for a tightening-up clause was not included in the old criminal code, by the way. That's one of them. And the other is that what you suggested is actually almost more stringent than the sentence used in the case of manslaughter. I agree with the Minister of State on behalf of the Government that we must also pay attention to the principle of proportionality in the Criminal Code, because that is also what we are dealing with, that each law should look like, that it should be proportionate. But let's get back to the debate. I'll get to it. Thank you very much for your comments and suggestions, thank you again. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2017-11-14-112	Thank you very much for your answers, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the draft law, dated 20 April 1959, on the publication of the second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, pending its conclusion. The government referral is T/18301. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[15.10]]
u2017-11-14-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill is to publish the second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters of 20 April 1959 in Strasbourg. The continued spread of cross-border crime has given particular importance to cooperation between countries in the area of justice. The instruments of legal assistance in criminal matters facilitate the detection of criminal offences and the conduct of proceedings. Hungary has been party to the Council of Europe Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters and to the Additional Protocol to the Convention since 1994. In addition to the Member States of the Council of Europe, a number of other States are also parties to the Convention, thus making it widely easier to cooperate in criminal matters. The Convention allows the parties to apply a number of instruments of assistance in criminal matters and also regulates the way applications and answers are transmitted and the use of languages. The Second Additional Protocol to the Convention was signed by Hungary on 15 January 2003, but has not yet been ratified. The Second Additional Protocol broadens the toolbox for mutual assistance in criminal matters and makes it simpler, faster, more flexible to deal with requests for assistance between States Parties and includes data protection provisions. The first chapter of the Second Additional Protocol to the Convention contains provisions replacing the provisions of the Convention, the second chapter contains provisions supplementing the Convention and the third chapter contains the final provisions. Given that, by applying the provisions of the Second Additional Protocol to the Convention, the instruments of mutual assistance in criminal matters would be broadened in relation to Hungary and non-EU States Parties, legal aid would be simplified, it is of particular importance for Hungary to ratify the Second Additional Protocol. The publication of the second Additional Protocol is required by law, since it is necessary to take a position on issues which also affect the fundamental rights and obligations of citizens. The second Additional Protocol to the Convention may enter into force for Hungary only if the provisions of the Second Additional Protocol are published in accordance with national law. Dear Parliament, I would ask the honourable Members to adopt the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Petneházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-14-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, The bill just tabled is the second Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters. It broadens the toolbox for mutual assistance in criminal matters and therefore makes it easier, faster and more flexible to apply for assistance between States Parties. It also includes, of course, data protection provisions, meaning that cooperation between Member States on international crime will be more practical. As Mr Secretary of State has said, this legislation presents us with the position agreed in the Council of Europe, and the Council of Europe itself - the institution that recently supported 80% of our country's position against the Ukrainian education law - is a guarantee of the legitimacy and importance of the initiative. Our vote is not merely a formality, because the importance of international cooperation in criminal matters is growing more and more today. I do not need to draw the attention of those sitting here, nor do I need to draw attention to the fact that the opportunities offered by globalisation are being used not only for good purposes today, not only to our advantage, but also to people with bad intentions, so technical and professional cooperation is of great importance when investigating international crimes. There was a good example of this: close and intensive cooperation between the Austrian and Hungarian police forces, which led to the rapid detection of the circumstances of the so-called death truck, which required 71 lives, found in Pandorf, and, as a result, quickly found the perpetrators. In the light of what has been said, I think we can do it unanimously, fellow Members, that we support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-11-14-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The detection of international crime is naturally important for every country, say, European and beyond, but it is a European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, the publication of its Second Additional Protocol. 1959 was a long time ago, 58 years ago, practically the beginning of the story. In the present state, it expands the toolbox for mutual assistance in criminal matters and legal assistance, practically expanding everything that can be expanded and expanded in line with today's situation. I can also say that it will, on the one hand, make it simpler and, on the other hand, faster, and, on the third hand, it will also make it more flexible to deal with legal aid issues between the States Parties, i.e. the States involved. It also includes certain changes to data protection provisions. Without going into the details, I can say with one sentence that the Hungarian Socialist Party will support this proposal and its adoption. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-11-14-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-11-14-119	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary has been party to the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters of the Council of Europe and to the Additional Protocol to the Convention since 1994. Member States of the Council of Europe and many other States are also parties to the Convention. The Convention allows the parties to apply a number of instruments of assistance in criminal matters and also regulates the way applications and answers are transmitted and the use of languages. Hungary signed the Second Additional Protocol to the Convention on 15 January 2003, but it has not yet been ratified. The Second Additional Protocol to the Convention broadens the toolbox for mutual assistance in criminal matters and makes it simpler, faster and more flexible to deal with requests for assistance between States Parties and includes data protection provisions. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is of particular importance for Hungary to ratify the Second Additional Protocol as soon as possible, so the parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports it, please support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-14-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I am not hiding a bag cat, and the Movement for Jobbik Hungary supports the signing of this convention. This basic agreement, the Basic Convention, was signed on 20 April 1959, of which this is the second Additional Protocol. What is less understandable to me - this additional protocol was signed on 8 November 2001, so it was 16 years ago, just 16 years ago - why we waited 16 years. This is very incomprehensible to me, because I think that this agreement does not contain any novelties that we should have been afraid to sign or fear, so it could have been signed calmly, it could have been accepted by the Hungarian Parliament earlier, so I think that I do not understand this at least. [[15.20]] What is the purpose of this additional protocol? In order to increase the scope of legal assistance and to address legal aid tasks more urgently both in transit and in the relationship between the parties and in bearing the costs. Since this treaty was signed in 1959, much has obviously changed. The text of this Convention had to be adapted 16 years ago. For example, it also includes the introduction of technical innovations such as hearing through video conferencing or teleconferencing. This obviously also involves the fact that we are 16 years earlier in time that it does not contain any new methods that are now fully adopted that would further accelerate this possibility, so I think that there will soon be another Additional Protocol to this Strasbourg Convention, which will also introduce the much more recent technical novelties that have emerged over the last two decades into the relationship between the two states. It also deals with the exchange of information, the transfer of objects, the delivery of items, regulates cross-border surveillance, the covert investigation, the setting up of joint investigation teams and witness protection. What is missing from this is once again the fact that it was signed 16 years ago, and that is why this legal aid in criminal matters is obviously not up to date. Just two weeks ago, the Hungarian Parliament discussed the addition of criminal assistance between Austria and Hungary, which is trying to adapt to today's circumstances, to today's changing criminal world, and has already brought in special protection in relation to terrorist acts, brings in special protection in relation to migration and the possibility of cooperation, and brings in the possibility of eliminating corruption. All this is what I think will be included in the next additional report, but because of the 16 years, these are still missing. By the way, of course, this can be supported at the given level, bearing in mind that this is a 16-year-old story and that is what it contains. So the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-14-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent Members shall not take part in the debate. We now have a two-minute speech, and I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP Group.
u2017-11-14-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, What I would like to highlight on the proposal before us, which I think is a very important process, is that, if I could put it this way, crime, crime and criminals are no longer really familiar with borders, and I would understand this specifically in terms of geographical boundaries. So what we see is that we are experiencing, and this has accelerated in recent times, is that crime is becoming more and more international, and, in practice, criminal groups are no longer typical within a state, but this is very often done across states, cross-border and cross-border. From this point of view, it is of particular importance that this second Additional Protocol to the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters by certain Council of Europe regulates, what and how it is now trying to adapt to life, because this, as many have already said, is an amendment to a basic Convention of 1959. And one of these points should be highlighted is that it clarifies the so-called transfer, when a person committing a crime is committed in Hungary and leaves abroad, then how can he be brought home - in a common language - or if someone escapes to us and is here and is accused of committing a crime by another state, then how can he be returned. I think that's what makes this protocol really meaningful. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2017-11-14-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group.
u2017-11-14-125	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, If we are talking about the Council of Europe and its accession to a convention, it is perhaps worth drawing the attention of the Secretary of State to the fact that Hungary should respect other Council of Europe conventions during its day-to-day operation, since Hungary is under a general monitoring procedure, and the study or outcome of this monitoring procedure, its report will soon be presented to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the committees will discuss it, and indeed, in this Council of Europe monitoring report, there is a very serious criticism of the activities of the Hungarian Government. So it is very nice and good, and as my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, said in his speech, the MSZP, of course, supports this proposal, but let me draw attention once again to the fact that a paper, a contract, is worth what it is being observed. Hungary has ratified and signed a number of these conventions with regard to the Council of Europe, but they are repeatedly violated by this government in some form. So it would also be important to apply the various laws and conventions already adopted, signed, already announced, to the Hungarian government properly in their daily practice, and then we would certainly move forward with regard to democracy in Hungary as well. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-14-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr State Secretary, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-14-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Firstly, I would like to thank the factions for their support in this proposal, and it seems that we will come to a consensus. Congressman Mesterházy had an observation. I think it could be compared to the activities of the various governments in this regard, and I do not think that the current government would back down in anything, especially if we think about the events of 2006, which the then government did in the autumn, and which has not yet been conscientiously accounted for. The other part of the matter is that in these conventions it is always necessary to take into account where national sovereignty is and where it is when different international organisations want to expand beyond the framework provided by the conventions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-128	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the draft law on transitional rules for sanctions for administrative infringements and amending certain laws and repealing certain laws in the context of the reform of administrative procedural law will follow. The government referral is T/18298. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2017-11-14-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The basic objective of the bill before us is to lay down, on a temporary basis, the general rules on administrative infringements until the law on sanctions for administrative infringements enters into force on 1 January 2019. The Act on General Administrative Rules, contrary to the Act on General Rules of Administrative Procedure and Service, does not contain any substantive provisions, since the General Administrative Rules Act constitutes only one regulatory core, in line with the legislative objective, supplemented by specific rules of sectoral procedural legislation which is consistent with the specialities of the relevant sectoral procedures. Following this regulatory logic, the bill before us for the period up to the entry into force of the Sanctions Act in 2019 was drawn up in order to include the current sanctioning provisions in a coherent and coherent system. The structure of the sanctioning rule will not fundamentally change, but there is a significant difference between the fact that the warning becomes a sanction that can be imposed in a meaningful decision and the possibility of redeeming the fine by working in the public interest will cease. In view of the transitional nature of the bill, it contains a provision for repealing itself, while at the same time repealing the ministerial decrees that will be no longer required. In addition to the above, the bill also contains certain legislative amendments relating to the entry into force of the General Administrative Rules Act and the Administrative Rules Act. [[15.30]] The fundamental purpose of these amendments is to ensure that the necessary additional procedural rules can be placed at a level higher than the ministerial regulation. Finally, the bill also makes technical amendments to and deregulation of the laws and legislative decrees identified in the legal system review relating to the entry into force of the General Administrative Rules Act and the Act on Administrative Rules, as well as the legislative provisions not following the development of the law of the past decades and having a codification error affecting its effect. Please allow me to respond briefly to Mr Gergely Bárándy and Mr Csaba Gyüre today's T/18320 on administrative bureaucracy reduction. In relation to the bill No.3 on general administrative order and related legislation, he stated his statements on the qualification of professional work in the Ministry of Justice. In this context, I point out that the Akr. And KP. The first reason for the adoption of Law L. of 2017 implementing the legal system review due to its entry into force was the fact that there was sufficient time for all actors involved in public procedural or legal proceedings, i.e. more than six months to learn about changes in procedural law. It is also very important to mention that the Akr.-Kp. The purpose of the salad law was not to fully reform and reform certain procedural regimes, but to adapt them to the terminology and regulatory system of the two Codes of Procedure, and to ensure the coherence of the legal system. In other words, procedural rules have been amended. This is of particular importance since the unforeseen policy regulatory needs of the wallets have occurred in the meantime because of changes in material legal conditions. The regulatory requirements of an administrative sector concerned material legal provisions, but the rule was amended by Ákr.-Kp. on the procedural side. Thus, the amendments resulting from substantive changes could only be made if the procedural changes contained in the salad law were reflected in a uniform structure in the latter legislation, while, of course, the relevant provision of the salad law had to be repealed. It should also be pointed out that the amendments to Ákr. since its adoption were mainly conceptual in nature or technical clarifications, which served to make the work of the law enforcement even smoother. On this basis, contrary to their claim, the Ministry of Justice has barely lost control of the legal system, but is constantly ensuring it, as the bill before us proves. I have two interpretations of your speech. They either wish to disregard the requirement of preparation time as part of legal certainty and suggest that it would not have been necessary to prepare the salad law earlier; or to assume that the Members are not fully aware of the basic professional rules and logic of preparation and legislation, which, in my opinion, would be expected of a Member of Parliament - but in this case I do not think at all. Ladies and Gentlemen, In line with the regulatory objective set out above, the bill lays down rules on administrative sanctions. In accordance with the laws in force, sanctions are imposed on administrative fines, confiscations and warnings. Other legislation may lay down specific sanctions, which, of course, does not provide for specific sanctions. This bill does not affect other sanctions in any form, so the system applied so far remains there. It should also be pointed out that, on the basis of the substantive rule, measures of a temporary nature or which require immediate intervention, legal consequences which may not be imposed by a decision and the measures necessary to enforce legitimate conduct are not covered by the bill. According to the bill, according to the guarantees of the rule of law, the warning becomes a sanction that can be imposed by a substantive decision, so it will also be possible to appeal against this decision in the future. The other rules comply with the provisions in force in their content, so that ministerial regulations excluding warnings also apply, as laid down in the transitional provisions of the bill. I would also point out that the provisions on administrative fines and on-the-spot fines fully reflect the rules in force, both in terms of discretion and in terms of limitation. With regard to the on-the-spot fine, it should be pointed out that the rule on the exclusion of an appeal is formulated in accordance with the Basic Law, i.e. it becomes clear that the right of appeal is not deprived of the customer, but is renounced by the client himself. Finally, it is necessary to point out that the rules of confiscation are fully identical to those in force; this legal institution can continue to be permitted only by a separate law. Ladies and Gentlemen, Allow me to switch to a general summary of the provisions relating to the amendment of certain laws relating to the reform of administrative procedural law. Taking into account the provision of the General Administrative Regulation Act, under which no additional procedural provision can be laid down by a ministerial decree, the rules of the implementing regulations at ministerial level, including additional procedural rules for public authorities, need at least to be raised to a level of government regulation. In view of this, more than 250 laws have already been amended this spring to amend the Act on General Administrative Rules and certain laws relating to the entry into force of the Law on Administrative Rules, but in the course of the revision of the legal system, additional policy needs have emerged which have led to the creation and amendment of additional powers. It is therefore necessary that the legislative amendments to the provisions of delegation are included in this bill, thus allowing the necessary additional procedural provisions to be included in a Government Decree instead of a ministerial decree. Accordingly, the bill amends 18 laws, in which the relevant delegation provisions are included in sectoral laws, and the rules that have been missing so far and which have helped with the case law are replaced. The rules of the General Administrative Regulation Act need to be amended on the one hand because of technical clarifications and on the other hand the proposed amendments make the norm clearer. For example, the distinction between relative and absolute grounds for exclusion is clearly reflected in the General Administrative Regulation Act. It is necessary to clarify the provisions on pending decisions because, in the case of central government bodies, the head of the body is often referred to as the recipient of the powers. Typical examples of this are ministries with a function. However, according to the legislation, the Ministry itself is a central administration body and not the Minister mentioned in the example, so it is justified to clarify the rule. Moreover, the rules of application are clarified in order to make it clear that the final decision of the authority should also be regarded as a final decision if it was taken in the proceedings initiated before the entry into force of the law, but already after the entry into force of the law. The amendments to the Act on Administrative Rules of Procedure provide clarification that helps to interpret the law, which settles the institution of exclusion, change and creates a clear position in relation to the procedural institutions of repeal and annulment. Since 2011, 77 amended laws have remained empty in our legal system, which no longer have legal effects, and therefore their repeal is justified. The amendment of 6 of the deregulation laws of previous years and the complete repeal of 6 laws, which are also replaced by this bill. Dear Parliament, To conclude, I would like to emphasise once again that the renewal of the different types of sectoral procedures has not been the objective of this proposal. The basic purpose of the bill is to ensure that the legal background of the usual administrative breaches is maintained on a temporary basis until the sanctioning law enters into force in 2019 and ensure that public order is enforced as required and expected by society. The second main objective of the proposal is to ensure legal coherence, repeal rules that do not follow legal progress, and remedy codification and technical errors. I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill on the basis of what they have said. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[15.40]]
u2017-11-14-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Répássy Robert, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-14-131	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to announce that the Group of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance supports the bill before us. [[Dr. Zsolt Legion, my gosh.]] Although this has, I see, been a surprise to the opposition, I would still like to continue my speech. Dear House, It is also apparent from the State Secretary's Expo that the bill before us contains a temporary settlement, it contains transitional rules, at least this is the main part of this bill, because the Parliament decided, on a proposal from the government, that a separate law on administrative proceedings was drawn up by the 2016 CL. in the form of a law, this is the so-called General Administrative Act. As the Secretary of State pointed out, however, this does not contain any substantive provisions, nor does it propose sanctions or contain provisions on sanctions. Therefore, the Parliament decided that the 2017 CXXV. by law, it establishes a separate administrative sanction system in a separate law. The entry into force of this law was postponed by the Parliament on the first day of January 2019. It is therefore necessary to establish transitional rules for about a year ahead of us, in particular for the preparation of the law enforcement staff. Therefore, the legal certainty aspect is that transitional provisions should be laid down until the entry into force of the law which will enter into force on 1 January 2019. So what we are doing now is only in the interest of the law-abiding people, it is in the interests of legal certainty for those who apply the law, so it is primarily in the interests of the public authorities and, of course, of the citizens affected by the activities of the public authorities. So I ask that these transitional rules be supported by the Parliament. As the Secretary of State said, the bill also contains other amendments relating to the entry into force of the general administrative statute. This is also necessary in order to ensure that new legislation in the far future or not so far away, but which will enter into force in the future, fits well into the legal system and is not disrupted in its implementation. Another part of the bill clarifies the legislation related to general administrative regulations, contains other technical clarifications and corrections. And there is also a part of this legislation which, for deregulation purposes, seeks to eliminate the pointless proliferation of legislation and to deregulate laws and legislative decrees that are empty by repealing unnecessary legislation. So I could also say that the bill before us is intended solely to increase the legal certainty of citizens and, in addition, to strengthen the legal certainty of administrative procedures, as much as possible, to strengthen legal certainty in the new legislative environment and transitional provisions. That's why I'm asking you to accept the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-11-14-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When discussing the draft law on the temporary regulation of sanctions for administrative infringements, I can say in the first sentence that we are talking about more than a year, as Róbert Répássy said in his speech in the last sentence, it would enter into force on 1 January 2019. Gradual sanctions require adequate preparation time, they say. I imagine that from the point of view of clients to the authorities, there are many others, a multitude of professional management organisations, when they talk about it. I'm suggesting something else, of course I'm not saying I'm right or that I'm seeing it right, but I'm suggesting otherwise: I don't think it's ready - as an example - the IT background that should be ready for the issue, or the central registration system that would be available to meet the tasks in every respect. On the one hand, a large debt content behind us, behind your back in this regard, and, on the other hand, you are opposed to this, we are faced with a hasty, i.e. hasty bill, and we are faced with a semi-finished and difficult bill, with difficulties for law enforcement or even for law-seeking citizens. I would also like to raise a specific question. Here's the codificator, 37th and 38th. The reason for paragraph 2 of this Article did not even take into account, or it may not have known, that the legal provision which has not entered into force could not be repealed; therefore, what has not entered into force cannot be repealed. It's a kind of deer error or a deer error in the formulation. I'm telling you, to identify the number 37, 38. I'm talking about the reason for this. The initiative of one law often beats another. To this I say that it is partly semi-finished, partly hasty, and partly difficult to produce. Dozens of laws are proposed to repeal a law which has been adopted, in whole or in part, by a pivotal majority. I don't want to continue this, I don't want to add any more of this, I think it gives me the basis to say with a calm spirit that the Hungarian Socialist Party will not support this bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-14-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-11-14-135	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Basically, the bill contains rules and provisions on a subject that can be grouped around four subjects. These can be summarised as follows: administrative sanctions, Akr. amendments related to its entry into force, other clarifications and technical deregulation. The first chapter contains administrative sanctions. The 2016 CL on the General Administrative Regulation. law does not contain substantive provisions as it is purely a code of procedure. Along this regulatory logic, a new bill has been drawn up for the 2004 CXL on general rules for public administration procedures and services. In order to ensure a uniform and coherent system for the inclusion of the sanctioning provisions of the Act. It concerns sanctions for administrative infringements in CXXV 2017. At the same time, the entry into force of the Act changed from the original plan to 1 January 2019. In view of this, Akr is necessary. establishing transitional arrangements for the period between the entry into force of the new law and the entry into force of the new law. [[15.50]] In the absence of this, the sanctioning activity of the public administration over the one-year period would be virtually doubtful if it did not cease. Chapter I therefore lays down these rules with regard to administrative sanctions, specifically building on the rules in force with the necessary and essential clarifications. You're the II. Chapter 1 of the Akr. contains amendments relating to its entry into force. The basic purpose of these amendments is to make the Ákr. Article 8 The requirements of paragraph 3 of Section 3 can be met by all sectors, and the necessary procedural rules can be placed at a higher level than the ministerial decree, i.e. typically delegated provisions will be drawn up or amended. Annex III is amended in accordance with Annex III to this Regulation. Chapter 3 consists of two parts, there is a first part and a second part: the first part is other clarifications, the second part will be deregulation. In the first part, therefore, these amendments are intended to eliminate any coherence disruptions that may have been left out in the review of Ákr. and to carry out other technical clarifications and corrections. It's the same chapter, so it's chapter III. The second part of the chapter contains technical deregulation, the Akr. by the technical deregulation of obsolete laws and legislative decrees identified in the review of the legal system related to its entry into force. Ladies and Gentlemen, The parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-14-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We are faced with a bill on transitional rules for sanctions for administrative infringements. We have already heard in the exposé and in the comments that have been made so far why such a transitional rule is necessary. I think that all parties obviously acknowledge that every parliamentary faction, if it has been pushed by a year, is a matter of fact, and a law enters into force on 1 January 2019, then appropriate legislation must be made for the transitional period, so that, obviously, in a rule of law or what is said to be a rule of law, the appearance of the rule of law is preserved. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to establish such a law. The main part of the law, which is also known from its title and for the purposes of the law, would be a transitional regime for the types of sanctions imposed by the public administration. There is no problem with these, as they are known as warnings, administrative fines or, in some cases, confiscation and, in some cases, other sanctions may be imposed. We have constantly criticised the fact that since the Jobbik Hungary Movement has been in the Parliament since 2010, unfortunately we have found that in very, very many cases fines have come to the fore against the warning, as if the executive authority in Hungary were interested in obtaining as many fines as possible, and we have often found, at the time of the budget negotiations, that the fines that will be imposed by the executive authority have been included in the budget with serious amounts. We have always said that we have to use this in a preventive manner, and obviously we have to swing the fine with proper weight and force when it is indeed justified, but in many cases it would be necessary that citizens who really do not want to deliberately deceive the authorities should not always be sanctioned, a kind of sanction that has serious financial consequences should not be affected. In the present case, it seems that this warning could be given a proper focus in this regulation; obviously, whether it will come to the fore will be decided by the application of the law. It also seems to be a good definition: in the event of a breach of the rules, if an infringement can be remedied by eliminating the infringement, an appropriate time limit should be set, together with the warning, to draw the citizen's attention to where he has violated the laws, because he has violated the laws, and in this case, if he fulfils the law that is missing or replaced or corrects what he has failed, an administrative fine will not be imposed, in which case he will be released with a warning. It is also obvious that if such an infringement is repeated, a further warning may not be given for two years. When a person fails to comply with the warning on time, he shall not receive another warning for two years, but the administrative fine shall be imposed. Obviously, this is also a tool of the rule of law, that in this case, when something is repeating, the rigour must be stronger than in the first case. But, as I said, it is very important that this warning will be deliberately applied by the authorities and applied regularly, rather than the administrative fine that will be imposed immediately. The problem is that, in my view, there is no mandatory regulation in this respect that would be good if it were to be, but that only has the possibility, and that will be decided in the course of the application of the law. In the case of an administrative fine, the discretion of the authority is clearly insurmountable, and it is necessary to consider the disadvantage caused, the undue advantage achieved by the infringement, the reversibility, the size of the circle concerned, the frequency of repetition and whether the perpetrator cooperates with the authorities or the economic weight of the infringement. I think that these are appropriate considerations of discretion, which have been included in this legislation, and that is certainly acceptable. Obviously, it is also acceptable that, if a person has broken a rule and is established, confiscation may be applied to him, if an object has been used as an instrument of the infringement, or if the possession of which is contrary to law, or if it has been created by the commission. In these cases, confiscation can obviously be used, it is not new, it has been regulated so far, so it is important that it is the same during the transitional period. I would say that if this legislation were to end here, we would say that this would be fully acceptable, of course, in the light of the fact that the warning will often be applied by the executive authority in the application of the law. The rest of it - there are three parts of it - is Akr. the entry into force of other amendments or deregulation. We always criticize legislation whose parts are not closely related. When we say that it is introducing a transitional regime, we are being referred to by the government, the essence of which is what administrative sanctions will be in this transitional period, slightly over a year, then why should we include how to authorise the competent minister to issue the passport. So I'm not sure that we can agree that what is not closely linked to the bill is included in the salad law. So we cannot agree with this in any way, this has been criticised many times in the formulation of the critical position of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary on previous salad laws. By the way, I'm saying that if it was just the first part, it would definitely be eligible. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-14-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the keynote speeches, and independent Members are not taking part in the debate. I now give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP Group, for a two-minute speech.
u2017-11-14-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In his national expo, the Secretary of State asked that the parliamentary parties support this bill. As Chief Speaker, my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, said that we will certainly not support him, so I firmly state that we are voting against this bill. [[16.00]] The reason for this is very simple: we have already disagreed with the way in which the government and the Fidesz majority have tried to resolve the establishment of the general administrative order, because we believe that such changes to the legal system would have required much more preparation time for the law enforcement authorities than the possibility of applying this bill from 1 January 2018. We think that this is a thoughtless, thoughtless, or I could say that it was a hasty legislative mechanism or process. We spoke against this then, and we said that it was very, very wrong, so, obviously, we are still consistent, and we are going to vote against it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-14-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group.
u2017-11-14-141	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The government has repeatedly said, as the Secretary of State has pointed out, that there is a need for bureaucracy and deregulation. By the way, that's a good objective. I add that this has been the objective of several governments, and they have been able to achieve these objectives more or less successfully. I would add that it is less, because everyone always has great hopes for such a task, and then on the apparatus that we want to reduce, somehow it always fails a little, or at least it is very much eroded by this intention. I feel that this is happening now, because now, in addition to how this current bill was prepared, how thoughtful it is, how professional it is, how much time it gives, it seems that the big plans have actually failed in their daily practice. Therefore, I would like to urge the government not to back down in this regard, if I may say so. So many times we hear this from the Prime Minister or the various ministers of the government, that the government does not back down, takes a hard step, beats it down and solves it, because it is a strong government, a strong Hungary, and the rest, and the rest. Then please do not back down on bureaucracy or deregulation, because not only in public administration, but also in a number of legislation regulating the activities of companies, this type of deregulation or the simple abolition of certain rules could be necessary. We have previously announced a programme for this in our own programme, how to repeal and reduce these bureaucratic obstacles both in economic life and at the level of citizens. In this case, I also think that a national consensus could be found between the various political parties, as this objective will be included in the programme of all parties. Perhaps it would be worth having more serious discussions about this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-14-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Legény applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor.
u2017-11-14-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry I asked you to speak again, but I forgot to mention one thing earlier. When the law on sanctions for administrative infringements was presented to Parliament, the justification which said that the application of the principle of graduality was a priority for the government in the spirit of trust between the state and its citizens. On the other hand, it was already apparent that the general set of conditions was confusing, that there was a lack of internal coherence and internal terminology, so I had to say this. And, of course, we think that it does not increase confidence either what should exist between citizens and the government, that now there must be transitional rules for a year, which I think may have been necessary because Minister Lazarus and Minister Trócsányi simply did not agree in time when they should have. So I had to tell you this, Mr. President. Thank you.
u2017-11-14-144	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-14-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank you for your participation in the debate, who have deserved Parliament - the LMP, who were not present in the debate - to participate in this. On the other hand, I would like to reassure everyone, because in the expoze, it seems that it has not succeeded enough that there will be no adverse consequences of these transitional rules that affect coherence or even the masses of citizens. It has minimal changes, so it will ensure a calm transition to a new sanctioning system. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-14-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2017 XC on criminal proceedings follows a series of steps. General debate on the draft law amending certain laws relating to the entry into force of law until closure. Government referral T/18316. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2017-11-14-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As you know, the New Criminal Procedure Act will enter into force on 1 July 2018. The new law on criminal proceedings significantly transforms the institutional and conceptual system of the current law on criminal proceedings. In order for the new procedural law to be integrated into the legal system, it is essential to amend sectoral, organisational or status laws relating to criminal proceedings. Many laws refer to the specific provisions of the Law on Criminal Procedure or the Law on Criminal Procedure in force, use terminology in criminal proceedings and establish sectoral consequences for criminal proceedings. Dear House, The most extensive part of the proposal is the technical regulation related to the restructuring of the concept of the new law on criminal proceedings. Compared to this, the proposal makes minor changes to the content of certain legislation on criminal matters. Finally, the third part of the amendments clarifies the new law on criminal proceedings on the basis of the criteria and observations that arise after the codification has been concluded. In terms of the number of amendments, it is a significant terminological innovation that the new law on criminal proceedings regulates the issue of legal force in relation to each form of decision different from that in force. The essence of this is that, by the concept of legal force, it means only material law, and that only the decisive decision of the court can rise to material law. The transfer of terminology in the legal system is also of particular importance because the fact of ongoing criminal proceedings, its completion, the nature of the decision taken in the course of the proceedings, has an impact on the legal provisions governing the consequences of criminal proceedings. Similarly to the system for judicial decisions, a review of other criminal prosecution concepts has shown that sectoral rules are sometimes unduly different, not necessarily coherent, and that the amendments contained in the proposal are designed to eliminate and unify them. In addition to the terminology update, it was essential to review and systematically adapt certain criminal law laws to the new law on criminal proceedings. The proposal implements substantive changes to the content of substantive law in relation to the Criminal Code, partly in relation to the new procedural institutions. The waiver of the hearing will become part of the general procedure in the investigation phase of the new law on criminal proceedings, and the settlement of the admission of guilt may be formalised in any case through its institution. If there is no doubt as to the legality of the agreement, the court will apply only the sanction provided for in the agreement. The application of a new type of settlement may be facilitated by new substantive provisions which, in the light of a wide range of cases, provide for flexible penalties. A settlement can therefore be an effective institution if the sanction provided for in the settlement is sufficiently flexible to determine the seriousness of the interests of the participants and of the crime committed, in accordance with their specific circumstances. In addition to these frameworks, the proposal will continue to achieve at the level of law with gradual financial advantages, so that, in cases of cooperation in excess of admission, the burdened party can also actively contribute to the detection and demonstration of other significant criminal offences that are burdened can be assessed in relation to simple admission. Another amendment to the proposal concerning the Criminal Code is the regulation of the setting-up of compulsory measures for the holder of a judicial right on personal leave. In the new law on criminal proceedings, there is a change in the system of coercive measures affecting personal freedom, and uniform criminal supervision will replace the current house arrest, removal ban and application obligation The new system requires formal re-regulation of the rules on the setting-up of the criminal code. It should be stressed that the new legislation is adapted to the changed system of coercive measures established by the Law on New Criminal Procedure, which includes the adjustment of the rules on set-off to that end alone, and does not change its foundations. [[16.10]] The proposal continues to maintain the principle that any day spent on coercive measures during which the laden person may not leave the designated apartment, other premises, institutions or the related enclosed space without authorisation. Among the amendments to the Prison Enforcement Act, the regulation of special procedures not included in the New Criminal Procedure Act should be highlighted because they should be regulated in the Prison Enforcement Act. A common feature of the special procedures to be included in the Prison Enforcement Act is that they do not affect the correction of the provisions of the decisive decision on the basis of the existence of an appeal or a new fact, but that they are subject to a decision in the field of prison execution. The proposal also transforms the existing legislation of the public defender and legal aid in criminal matters in line with the new law on criminal proceedings. The proposal also amends the legislation on criminal law measures applicable to a legal person in substance. For example, the proposal regulates the rules of representation of the legal person in line with the new law on criminal proceedings and empowers the legal representative to act by proxy. The proposal allows the legal person's representative to be informed of the legal person's proceedings and relevant events during the investigation, thereby enabling the representative to exercise his procedural rights more effectively. It is an important innovation that the proposal allows for the use of certain simplification procedures even if the conditions for applying a measure to a legal person are met. On this basis, action against the legal person may be taken without a hearing and within the framework of criminal proceedings. The proposal also implements amendments to the law governing legal aid that create coherence with the law on new criminal proceedings. For example, the proposal transposes the system of hearing the new law on criminal proceedings by means of telecommunications into the International Law on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters and the Law on Criminal Cooperation with the Member States of the European Union. The reform of the concept and institutional system of the new law on criminal proceedings also provided for the possibility of reviewing and modernising the rules of the law governing the protection programme of persons involved in criminal proceedings. In this context, the proposal will transform, modernise the regulation of the defence programme in line with the professional experience of over a decade of law enforcement in the past, ensuring appropriate consistency and applicability both in relation to criminal proceedings itself, the bodies involved in it and international cooperation with the co-organisations involved in the defence programme. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the main regulatory points listed, the proposal implements a number of minor but substantive amendments that facilitate effective and fair prosecution. In this context, the amendment of the levy law, which was mainly justified by the new system of criminal proceedings relating to the knowledge of the file and by the new technical solutions for the transmission of electronic documents, should be highlighted. The proposal introduces, for example, the regulation of the levy on the issue of a copy of the file in electronic form. The proposal also sets out fairer rules on the payment of taxes in private proceedings. One of the priorities of the private prosecution process is to resolve the conflict between the victim and the defendant, and to end the procedure with the forgiveness of the victim without penalty. On the basis of the proposal, it is possible to grant the victim a tax exemption even if the forgiveness which led to the termination of the procedure takes place at a later stage in the private prosecution procedure. In addition, the victim does not have to pay a levy even if the court determines the liability of the defendant in the private proceedings. The amendment of the proposal to the law on judicial enforcement settles the issue of the sale of immovable property which has been closed in criminal proceedings for the purpose of a third party's claim. On the basis of the new law on criminal proceedings, the benefit is granted for all persons by the legal assistance service. The proposal therefore amends the Law on Legal Assistance. In addition to the victims, there will be rules for the benefit of the burdened person. The proposal creates fairer cost-bearing rules by amending the law on mediation in criminal matters. Accordingly, for the purpose of bearing costs, the victim may not be more disadvantaged in mediation than in criminal proceedings. Under the new law on criminal proceedings, the sittings do not participate in the general procedure, but only in two separate proceedings, military criminal proceedings and juvenile prosecutions.The proposal enforces the resulting changes in the choice of sitters in the law on the status and remuneration of judges. The proposal also includes amendments to the new law on criminal proceedings. I would like to stress that most of the amendments to the new law on criminal proceedings are technical, codification and coherence amendments, which do not change the essential content of the new code. The most extensive amendment concerns the regulation of electronic contact and administration. Most of these rules will be introduced into the legal system by the Law on General Rules for Electronic Administration and Trust Services, as of 1 January 2018. The amendments necessary for the entry into force had to be transposed with this date in the current law of criminal proceedings, which will be carried out by a novel recently adopted by the Parliament. The amendments to the proposal also concern the new law on criminal proceedings, because of the experience gained in the course of this exercise and the refinement of the rules and in order to ensure consistency between that novel. The experience gained as a result of the new Law on Criminal Procedure and the preparation for the application of the law on the new Civil Procedure Act has also made it necessary to amend the regulation of the Law on New Criminal Procedure on civil claims. Most of these are aimed at making civil law enforcement easier in criminal proceedings. In order to withdraw the civil rights claim, the proposal does not require a burdened contribution. Dear Parliament, The proposal also concerns some of the fundamental provisions of 14 laws. However, I would stress that the amendments do not constitute a transformation of the key regulatory issues governed by these laws, but a transfer of the terminology of the new law on criminal proceedings and the proper integration of certain new institutions. The amendments are therefore, without exception, related to the transfer of the changed concepts of the new law on criminal proceedings, or technical amendments, which do not alter the content of the laws concerned. For example, the amendment of the law on the police was necessary to amend the fundamental provisions of the new names under the new law on criminal proceedings, the laws on the organisation of courts and the status of judges, the concept of a changed force of law, the changing regime of coercive measures and the replacement private proceedings as an autonomous procedure. [[16.20]] In addition to these reasons, the change in the structure of the investigation made it necessary to amend the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Law on the Status of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Ladies and gentlemen, You can see that the proposal is a comprehensive and extensive substance. However, the adoption of the proposal is absolutely necessary in order to ensure that the new rules on criminal proceedings can also be applied in sectoral legislation. In order to ensure the coherence of the legal system and the effective functioning of criminal proceedings, it is essential to transfer these changes to the laws concerned. I would like to ask my fellow Members, as they have done in the case of the new law on criminal proceedings, to support the reform of criminal proceedings in accordance with our common objectives in the context of this bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-14-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Répássy Robert, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-14-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The Group of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association supports the bill before us, given that the legislative package submitted by the Minister of Justice guarantees the introduction of a new law on criminal proceedings through technical amendments, its transfer to the legal system, thereby creating a uniform and consistent practice of law enforcement. On 13 June 2017, the Parliament adopted the 2017 XC on criminal proceedings. a law that introduces or regulates several new legal institutions in a different way than the current law on criminal proceedings. This requires the amendment of a number of laws, in particular certain provisions of 173 laws, which are primarily legislation on criminal matters, but there are also a large number of other laws governing matters, which contain references to criminal procedural provisions, so they also need to be amended. In view of the complexity of the new law on criminal proceedings, the bill before us settles these amendments in a uniform manner for all laws. Among the terminology and technical clarifications contained in the proposal, I would further highlight the following, in line with the logic of the new Criminal Procedure Act. One of the major innovations of the new law on criminal proceedings is to integrate the sectoral rules for the collection of classified information for law enforcement purposes into criminal proceedings and enforce uniform conditions and guarantees under the name of hidden assets. On the basis of these changes, the proposal translates the concept of concealed assets into sectoral legislation. The proposal also introduces changes to the legal system concerning the status of the prosecutor and investigating authority, as well as the status of the defendant. With regard to the status of defendant in legal relationships other than criminal proceedings, the proposal links the quality of the burden with that of persons subject to criminal proceedings, in line with the use of the Criminal Records System Act. According to the Hungarian organizational solution, all prosecutors act on behalf of the Public Prosecutor's Office, so the new law on criminal proceedings uses the term "the prosecutor's office" instead of "the prosecutor." At the same time, where the prosecution or court proceedings can be interpreted alongside the investigating authority, the proposal complements the norm accordingly. It is important to point out that the new Criminal Procedure Act identifies as a person involved in criminal proceedings the range of financial stakeholders with additional rights and obligations compared to other stakeholders. To this end, the proposal also introduces the concept of asset-interested in all situations where this can be interpreted in the relevant laws. The new law on criminal proceedings breaks with regard to the knowledge of the case files by a preventive system which basically directs the knowledge of the case files in a way that is based on the publication of the copy, but considers the publication of the copy to be one of the ways of getting to know the case file. The earlier legal institution of the request is replaced by the data request and the new law on criminal proceedings regulates this procedural action within the overall category of data acquisition activity. The new law on criminal proceedings also introduces a new legal institution within the framework of data acquisition activities: conditional data request. The new Code of Criminal Procedure standardises the procedure for the reduction of costs and separates it from the criminal proceedings of the court and the prosecutor's office in the case of the defendant, on the basis of which the authorisation of the reduction of costs falls within the competence of the Legal Assistance Service. The new Code of Criminal Procedure establishes new rules on postal delivery in parallel with the new rules on civil procedure, which will also be transposed. The new Criminal Procedure Act has carried out a certain system-wide transformation of coercive measures, other than dogmatic clarification. There is a significant change in the content that home detention and the removal ban are also fundamentally new, much more flexible and useful in the context of the institution of criminal supervision introduced by the new criminal law law, so that the actual content of the compulsory measure can be identified flexibly in all cases, not according to the categories formalised by law, but with rules of conduct adapted to the subject of the burdened person. The new law on criminal proceedings establishes the preparatory procedure as a special procedure before the investigation. The proposal amends the procedural stages that may be interpreted as a starting point for criminal proceedings for certain laws, and establishes the consistency of sectoral laws with the new criminal law law in accordance with the limited powers of the preparatory body, and complements the laws affected by the amendment in all cases where the procedure of the preparatory body is possible. On the basis of the proposal, the principle laid down by the new Criminal Procedure Act will be transposed into all the relevant legal provisions, that the investigation is subject to suspicion of criminal offences and that the suspects' interrogation is subject to reasonable suspicion. In connection with the introduction of a conditional prosecutor's suspension, the terminological change will also be transferred. It is important that the new criminal law regulates the various forms of the court's decision and the concept of legal force in a more thought-out system than before. For example, the court shall decide by a decision which shall be decisive in its proceedings, by an order which is not decisive or by a judicial measure which does not require a form of decision. The new Code of Criminal Procedure establishes a complex system of cooperation between the defendants to simplify criminal proceedings. The new law on criminal proceedings is also restructuring and making the provisions of the private prosecution more logical, while at the same time settling the relevant standard in a new special procedure under the name of the replacement private procedure. The designation of the two separate procedures is consistently referred to in the new Criminal Procedure Act as a private and ancillary proceedings, and therefore the proposal implements corresponding conceptual clarifications in the laws concerned. To sum up, the proposal before us contains amendments to the new, renamed or otherwise regulated legal institutions introduced by the new Code of Criminal Procedure, which, as I said, our group supports. The adoption of the Code of Criminal Procedure bill was preceded by long professional consultation and timely consultation between parties, giving sufficient time for its entry into force. That is why I would like to ask my honourable fellow Members that Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should be amended accordingly. The draft law allowing the practical application of a new Code of Criminal Procedure meeting the requirements of the 20th century and ensuring the coherence of the legal system is supported by its votes. Thank you for listening.
u2017-11-14-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-11-14-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, This law, I consider, is not worth talking about in detail in my present position. It's not worth it for two reasons. On the one hand, because the content was presented by the Secretary of State in his expo and by my fellow Member, Mr Répássy, in his speech to the speaker. Obviously, it would be a shame to do that again. The other thing that is more serious is that we have problems in principle with this proposal. [[16.30]] My fellow Member, Mr Répássy, rightly said that the codification process of the Criminal Procedure Act was, by the way, a supporting and acceptable sequence of events, unlike the codification processes of Fidesz. I agree with him. What is more, I would also like to point out, for the sake of fairness, that several proposals have been incorporated by the government into the new Be. We would have been inclined to accept the code, although we had critical comments and several proposals that were not included in the code, but we saw that the rules on secret gathering of information that were negotiated and voted with Be. were virtually smacked to death by the new Be. positive changes in this direction. I say this because despite the fact that the legislator has introduced a much better and more accurate guarantee system in the new Criminal Procedure Law, this did not understand, because the new package of laws on secret information has practically ruined it. Therefore, we could not support the legislative package as it is, so we voted effectively against it, and for this reason we abstained in the final vote of the new Criminal Procedure Law. This problem of principle also goes through the current bill, as it also amends the legislation and adapts the provisions to some 172 open legal bases, which are included in the fundamental legislation on the collection of classified information. That is why I think that this may be enough reason for us not to be able to support the entire proposal. Otherwise, we cannot talk about the salad law in a bad sense which violates the principles of legislation, because although the proposal before us really amends nearly 200 pieces of legislation, they are basically technical amendments to the entry into force of the new Criminal Procedure Law. But, once again, the rules for collecting classified information... And to avoid being so general, I would like to raise just one, perhaps the most important problem in this debate, without, of course, fully explaining the problem and explaining the other problems, but our main concern was that the prevention of crimes and the detection of crimes were separated in the new law. In our view, the collection of classified information in the prevention of criminal offences is practically not covered by certain elements of the guarantee scheme set out in Be. That's why practically everything that's in Be. can be played. That is our position right now. Obviously, we cannot support a package of laws that governs these provisions through another, almost 200 laws. Which is another problem in principle with the proposal, and I think that this is not yet included in the new Be. Nor is it an innovation in content - let's say - that concerns the re-enlargement of the powers of court secretaries. Mr Secretary of State obviously knows my arguments on this, because I have repeatedly said that I judge it, and I think that this can be said as a fact that the secretaries do not have the same independence as the judges do. For example, they are vulnerable in their status, if you will, to the judicial administration system. So, while they have decision-making independence in these matters, their independence of status is completely lacking. That is why I do not agree with the fact that very substantial parts of the judicial powers are now delegated to secretaries. I have also said on several occasions that it would be the right solution in this regard if, in view of the increased burden of affairs, powers were not transferred from the judges to the secretaries, but the secretaries were appointed judges, raising the number of judges, and their independence would, by definition, be assured, like the rest of their colleagues, and they could assess these matters. The reason I do not understand the significance of this today is why they insist on it, because the system of judicial remuneration that you have introduced by the way makes it almost possible, and I even think that there is not an example of certain secretaries making more money than judges. It would therefore not necessarily have a serious budgetary impact on the appointment of more judges. I really don't agree with that. We know the background of this, the Prime Minister refuses to allow the judges to raise their incomes, and therefore you are attempting to do all kinds of detours, which create extraordinary wage tensions within the court system. I could tell you that we told you that we would, and we did. But now that that's the case, I really don't understand why more judges can't be appointed. In other words, once again, the budgetary disadvantage of this would be very small or not at all. The other thing I would like to say in this connection is that basically the length of these cases is not necessarily because the judges are overwhelmed, but because the judges do not have adequate assistance. If we want a solution with more favourable budgetary effects, then I think that we could try to increase this assistance, the extent of that, and the volume of that. These people earn significantly less than the secretaries, by the way. Otherwise, cases can be prepared, because most of them are not complex cases, but they require independence anyway, and the decision would only be what the judge has to do, all the rest will be prepared and dealt with by these people. They would benefit, customers would benefit, and justice as a whole would benefit. So, once again, I can't even begin to understand why you insist on this trend, that you give court secretaries new powers instead of thinking about other alternative solutions. Finally, honourable Members, another point of principle. We can only give two-thirds support to legislative amendments that substantially alter public order, strengthen the rule of law and restore the system of brakes and balances. We don't consider it that way. We consider this to be a technical amendment to which the opposition is now being asked to support. You see, we are not talking in the air, because if you really have a proposal to strengthen and serve the rule of law, it is just today that we are supporting it. We supported their campaign funding law on the fight against fake parties. For example, there has been an exemplary cooperation in this, since our amendment has been adopted and voted together, I think that one hundred and eighty Members have supported this proposal. So if they bring one of these, it's okay. If you ask for support for something that isn't, we won't give it to you. We have also often indicated that we can talk with the OBH President on public law law, of course, and we have had a number of suggestions, perhaps the most important of which, and we are in common with Jobbik's faction, that if we are able to negotiate that we are touching the OBH President's power to declare inefficiencies, we are not necessarily abolishing it at the same time, but we are touching it and re-regulating it, then we can also negotiate amendments to other fundamental laws concerning justice, which the government has already put forward, which the Parliament has not accepted in the absence of sufficient support. I have said this many times, and I have also told the President of the OBH's wife, at a committee meeting, officially, in consultation with her, of course in the context of a formal consultation, and also to Mr State Secretary, Minister. There's no progress in this. Therefore, I wonder why such proposals are being put before us when they know that this is the condition for their support. We've said it many times, we've said it many times, we're saying it now, we're not going to support it now. [[16.40]] However, we are still open, Mr State Secretary, to the fact that if you are willing to change this issue, we can, of course, reopen the support of this package, the debate and support of the two-thirds part. We're holding this offer to this day, so if you want, you can take it. On the basis of these considerations in principle, which I have said, we will not be able to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-14-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-11-14-153	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2017 XC on criminal proceedings. T/1831 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the entry into force of law The purpose of this bill is to ensure that the new Be will enter into force on 1 July 2018. its rules should be consistent with the other rules of the legal system. The new Be. it has significantly changed the institutional and conceptual systems of criminal proceedings compared to the old one. In order to ensure the effective functioning of criminal proceedings, it is essential to transfer these changes to sectoral, organisational or structural laws relating to criminal proceedings and to other laws otherwise related to criminal proceedings. The bill therefore contains amendments to 173 laws. Ladies and Gentlemen, I consider it important to point out that these amendments are essential to ensure that the new Code of Criminal Procedure adopted in June 2017 is properly applied and integrated into the legal system as of 1 July 2018. It is worth recalling the new Be. regarding Parliament's vote: it was adopted by 154 votes in favour, 34 abstentions and 10 votes in favour. So it's obvious it's the new Be. There was a broad consensus between us. I would consider it very important that such a consensus be reached with regard to this bill, although, at the moment, it seems that the conditions for this do not apply to those who have spoken before me. But I continue to hope that this will change by the end of the detailed debate. Ladies and Gentlemen, The new Be. the new system of judicial decisions, a judgment, a decisive order, an inconclusive order and a legal force and finality related to each form of decision should be highlighted among the concepts that have been adapted or introduced by the Court. There is a significant social interest in ensuring uniform and precise regulation. However, when reviewing sectoral laws, there were other concepts of criminal proceedings, different, inconsistent regulation of legal institutions, which this bill also attempts to eliminate and unify. Let me just give you a few examples of this: suspicion of a crime, suspect interrogation or the use of the terms private and secondary proceedings with different content, which this bill would like to define consistently. Ladies and Gentlemen, In addition to the technical amendments related to the new Be., it was necessary to review the content of legislation on criminal matters closely linked to the new Be. The laws in question are, in short, Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code. It should be pointed out from this amendment that the new Be. it contains changes in line with the system for the cooperation of the load group. CCXL 2013 on the implementation of the penalties and measures, certain emergency measures and infringement procedures. Law, it's the law of the Bv. Here, the regulation of the special procedures in force in Be., which are set out in the new Be, should be highlighted among the amendments. in accordance with its system, it is already incorporated in the Act of Bv. CXXIII of 2006 on mediation in criminal matters Act CIV of 2001 on criminal law measures applicable to a legal person Act CCXXIII of 2012 on transitional provisions relating to the entry into force of Law C of 2012 on the Criminal Code and amending certain laws Act CLXXX of 2012 on criminal cooperation with the Member States of the European Union. Act XXXVIII of 1996 on international assistance in criminal matters Law. In these respects, it has also become inevitable to adapt the content of the legislation and to amend it, also in the light of its adaptation to the new Be. The new Be. The reform of the system of concepts and institutions created an opportunity for the LXXXV of 2001 on the Protection Programme of the Law Aiders, who were involved in criminal proceedings. a review of the regulation of the law. The 1990 XCIII on the levy also deserves to be highlighted. Law. The new Be. The transformation of the system of access to the files is justified by the significant modification of its system and the new technical possibilities already available for the transmission of electronic documents. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill will amend the new Be before its entry into force. Some of the rules. It should be stressed that the new Be. The amendments to the new Code are without exception technical, codification or coherence amendments which do not alter the essential content of the new Code. The parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the bill, please support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-14-155	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, we have a law that concerns a lot of other legislation. The reasons why this is necessary have already been said to me, as many new legislation on the entry into force of the new Criminal Procedure Act needs to be amended in order to fit properly with this new Be. the Hungarian legal system. How difficult this is is, it is quite clear, because the hundreds of amendments clearly indicate this. Even when there was a discussion of such provisions of entry into force in connection with Pp, I already said that in the case of such a new bill - the test of pudding is eating - practice will decide what is left out of this, what has not gone well, what needs to be changed. [[16.50]] As we can see, the amendments are constantly coming in, and there has been a law, such as the law on public procurement, which understands two separate amendments, at least the debate today, which is a little strange that we are in contact with the law on public procurement in two separate salad laws, and that we may not even have a coherent view of these amendments. In the same way, further amendments to this will be made, I assume that they will continue to come to us. As we already have those problems here, and they are included in this bill, because the new Code of Criminal Procedure has been adopted in Parliament and is already touched by this bill, there are already amendments to it. Obviously, the question arises when a whole new code is put here, because I think that such a code should come here, that it has been passed through multiple filters, that it has been dealt with several times with the elite of the profession per paragraph, then we should not have gone into that legislation a half a year, a quarter after its adoption, before the legislation enters into force, and we are already amending it. Obviously, he says, even if he is on the opposition side, that if he is in a better mood, if he is already aware of a mistake, if it is already eliminating a problem of coherence, then these amendments are necessary. What we want to do is to get legislation here, before the Parliament, which is the least we can do. But this was also seen in connection with the Basic Law, which was said to be granite-solid, which was in its first draft, that it could not be modified, because it is so perfect, it represents the interests of all parts of the Hungarian nation, said the Fidesz-KDNP at that time two thirds, so this basic law is so granite-solid, that not even the current parliamentary cycle of 10-14 years can touch it, but if they want to change it by two thirds in another parliamentary term, it can only be touched because it is so great and so well done, and, if I remember correctly, we have amended the Fundamental Law five times or amended the Fidesz-KDNP, which still has a two-thirds majority at the time. So, even such a law, which is so important, and obviously a new Fundamental Law is also of great importance, if it had to be amended in this way, obviously these errors can occur in criminal proceedings or other legislation such as Ákr. It is only quite obvious that if we are to amend legislation that has not yet entered into force. And why is this amendment necessary? Because the new Criminal Procedure Law has obviously introduced a new terminology, contains new rules to be implemented, and these new terminologys, new concepts, conceptual definitions in many other laws that used the old terminology must all be modified, all have been found, all had to be modified and all had to be introduced into this legislation. So the terminology changes, the innovations are all here, and the substantive changes are also here. The other group includes those where the new Be will take place on 1 July 2018. and certain provisions will not enter into force - I have already said this - or will enter into force with a changed content. So these are the rules that have already been shown to never enter into force and therefore had to be amended in advance. On two-thirds issues, this proposal also affects fundamental laws in a significant area. In this respect, we have generally found that there are really important laws, as we are talking about two-thirds laws, such as police law, national security law, the Law on the State Audit Office, the Law on Defence, the Law on Constitutional Court, the Law on the Legal Status of Judges, the Law on the Law on the Law of the Prosecutors, the Law of Parliament, so it concerns very important laws, but they usually only concern a change of concept or a change of terminology. In this context, there was also a five-party consultation, and during the five-party consultation and as a result Jobbik's experts were addressed to government experts. In this we had three questions, to which we had already received answers, but I had just received these answers, so I was not yet in a position to read or interpret them. Depending on this, it becomes questionable whether or not a two-thirds part of this law is eligible. Although it should also be considered, and my fellow Member Bárándy has already mentioned that the opposition has had broadly uniform critical comments on the legislation so far, such as the criticism of the power of the President of the OBH to abolish the powers of appointment or to destroy appointments, which has already been raised among the opposition. My fellow Member, Gábor Staudt, has said this several times both in Parliament and in the five-party negotiations, and these should obviously be taken into account, and the amendment should also be made here. These could be taken into account where appropriate. So in that case, we could think about whether or not to vote on two thirds or whether to get the right answers to those questions or whether they are reassuring. My colleague, Bárándy, mentioned the problem of court secretaries, that this new proposal broadens the powers of court secretaries who act and what matters can be used as decision-makers. He said that he had a suggestion that more judges should be appointed from among these court secretaries, and that we would be able to solve this problem much more easily, much more legally. I think that this was, in any case, a positive proposal, because we see that in many cases it is necessary to involve court secretaries in the case because the judges no longer manage to deal with those matters. In this case, if more secretaries were appointed as judges, these cases would be easier and simpler to resolve. Indeed, since the law on the status of judicial staff has been published, the highest secretary's salary has reached about the initial judicial salary, so this would not result in any increase in wages that the sector could not bear, and it is even possible that it would not result in any increase in wages, but could be a serious problem, or a remedy for serious constitutional concerns. And I also think that this should be considered in any way. So you can see that here the profession has put a serious job on the table, and it has been seriously analyzed by the new Be. amendments to the legislation relating to its entry into force, and the Jobbik fraction will discuss and decide whether we support this bill on the basis of the questions asked by us and on the basis of the answers given to it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-14-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent Members do not take part in the debate, no one has applied for a two-minute speech. It is now time to speak with the national minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon. There you go. You have the floor. [[17.00]]
u2017-11-14-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to welcome you on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself. I would like to inform the Parliament that our committee is T/18316. XC 2017 on criminal proceedings. On 13 November 2017, the bill amending certain laws relating to the entry into force of the Act was discussed, and it adopted the following opinion with 12 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Two of the proposals to amend the laws before us concern the use of nationality languages. One is the 2006 CXXIII on mediation in criminal matters. Law. In the proposal for amendment, the legislation on costs incurred during the mediation procedure does not prejudice the rights of persons belonging to nationalities in Hungary, as the proposal before us provides for the State to advance the cost of using the language of nationality of the victim, suspect or legal representative during the procedure. It was also regulated that the State would bear the cost of using the national language of the suspect in the course of the proceedings. The second bill, which concerns the use of national minority mother tongue, is the 2013 CCXL on the implementation of penalties, measures, certain coercion measures and detention of infringements. Law. The use of the nationality language and the right to information prior to the amendment before us were ensured, since in the course of implementation the sentenced and otherwise detained persons can use their nationality languages both orally and in writing, and at the express request of detention-related cases, decisions should be translated into their nationality languages. The right to information is not violated, as the body responsible for enforcement must also inform the sentenced or otherwise detained person of the essential elements of the legislative provisions on the order of enforcement, the rights and obligations of enforcement and the policy of the detention body in the language of nationality. The text exchanged in the amendment, which contains the text "other mother tongue" defined in the international treaty of non-Hungarian mother tongue, nationality or law, makes the law clearer and more transparent and consistent with the use of the new law on criminal proceedings. Dear Parliament, Overall, the amendments listed in the proposal are welcomed and proposed by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-14-158	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP Group. You have the floor.
u2017-11-14-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In his speech as Chief Speaker, my fellow Member Bárándy mentioned that the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction abstained from the final vote of the new Criminal Procedure Act, because during the five-party talks we made the following objections and proposals in connection with the new Be. We believe that the professional autonomy of the prosecuting prosecutor must be established. While we do not dispute the validity of the prosecution's duty to operate according to a very strict hierarchy, we believe that guarantees, the brakes and the counterweights adapted to the nature of the organisation should, or should, prevail in the case of the prosecutor's office. Therefore, we believe that the new criminal proceedings should include procedural guarantees so that, as well as the judge responsible for the judgment, the person of the prosecutor ultimately taking responsibility for the case can be established without doubt. This responsibility should, as appropriate, be accompanied by professional autonomy. This is based on the decision to prosecute and dismiss, which should be a decision based solely on the prosecuting prosecutor, let us say, his best professional conviction. In the new Be. we believe that the framework for this responsible prosecution should be established, and that it should be categorically ruled out that the prosecuting prosecutor should be ordered by the superintendent to prosecute or dismiss. We believe that the rules for setting pre-trial detention should be differentiated according to the fact that the defendant is sentenced to imprisonment in prison, prison or prison. We welcome the fact that the judicial phase of criminal proceedings strengthens its adversarial nature, requires greater preparedness and responsibility from both the prosecution and the defence. In order not to be accompanied by a breach of the rights of those who are under pressure who cannot be trusted by a defender in a more modest financial situation, we consider it appropriate to extend the possibility of a defence order and to establish professional control of the work of the public defenders. I would also like to state, in relation to the proposal, that the prosecutor's office or the investigating authority may take into account the facts that are well-known or that it is officially aware of when filing the complaint. I just quoted that exactly. In contrast to the provisions of these provisions, it is the duty of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authority to take into account not only the facts known or officially known when filing the complaint. However, as I said, at this five-party meeting, our amendments to the new Be. were not supported by the government, so we abstained then and, as my fellow Member Bárándy mentioned in his speech as a speaker, we will not be able to support this bill before us. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy applauds.]]
u2017-11-14-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking my fellow Members if they still wish to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State, who is likely to respond to what has been said as a closing point. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-14-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add that the adoption of the law on criminal proceedings was preceded by a very long conciliation process, involving representatives of both professional and scientific life. It has changed the previous system at systemic level, which is why it is necessary to adapt sectoral laws and other laws to this terminology. I understand Mr Barándy's point, but we have already clarified this in the previous debate on criminal proceedings that if you have other problems with the legal system, we do not want to put this on the table in the debate of this law or in the debate of related laws. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Then we won't vote.]] Secondly, I am very confident that the overall assessment is that these amendments are technical, technical, and therefore not political. I understand, of course, that you may have objections in the field of the use of concealed devices or the collection of classified information, but overall, we have also said that these amendments did not result in a step backwards from the previous situation, but that we have actually made these processes clearer, more transparent, subject to judicial and prosecutorial control in criminal proceedings, which can be interpreted as progress. So, overall, I can only ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. And thank you very much for the work and comments of the minority committee. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-14-162	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill on the rules of change until closure. Government referral T/18310. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2017-11-14-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The converter is a special and long-standing form of securities that, through its complex advantages, performs a series of functions in modern economic life, as an important complement to cash flow as a means of payment and credit. The aim of the bill is to renew and settle the substantive and procedural laws of the changer within the framework of the Convention on Change Law concluded in Geneva on 7 June 1930 and published by Hungary in 1965. The bill therefore replaces the text on the publication of the text of the bills of exchange 1/1965. IM Regulation and Article III of the 1952 Civil Procedure Regulation Law on the rules on the exchange of rights applicable until the end of this year. [[17.10]] The domestic rules of change were published in 1965. The economic circumstances at that time did not favour the exchange of traffic. As a result, the legislation has been an empty legal standard for a long time in terms of exchange between domestics. This fact is also reflected in the text of the current norm, because the legislator has made very limited use of the possibility to examine issues which are not settled by the Convention but which are referred to the competence of the Hungarian legislator and, on account of the previous economic arrangement, to essentially adapt them to non-existent needs. However, with the legal and economic transformation, there was a need for all of this. At the same time, it should be stressed that the Geneva Convention establishes the text of the so-called single change law to be applied by the States Parties, from which derogations can only be made within the limits set by it and can only be supplemented in the light of the mandatory rules; in other respects, all States Parties, including Hungary, are obliged to apply. In the light of the foregoing, the bill fills the relative regulatory gap by maintaining the mandatory norm of the single change law. By replacing an old omission, the bill lays down rules on the exact location of the exchange actions by indicating, within the settlement designated for the execution of the exchange actions, that each act is to be carried out at its place of residence in the case of a natural person, in the absence thereof, at its place of residence, and, in the case of a legal person, at its place of residence, in the absence thereof, at its place of establishment. It also fills in the deficiency by introducing, in the pattern of our change in 1876 right, that the notary taking up the change is obliged to provide information on the address and place of residence of the natural person from the address records in the event that the location of the change in question is not accurately indicated by the changer himself. If the search for the address remains unsuccessful, the notary may also use reference to this condition to apply for protection, so that the claim in the transmission becomes enforceable as a claim for reimbursement. In accordance with the protests made by the notary, a system of formal notification will be introduced to ensure the relief of the transmission holder and the more efficient operation of the procedure for notification of the transmission obligations. In order to ensure the smooth functioning of the transmission system and to comply with market conditions, the bill increases from 3 to 1 per cent the amount of the exchange fee that can be demanded in the event of non-compliance with the changer properly and the opening of the claim for reimbursement. In this way, the exchange fee will be able to recharge the damage margin attributed to it. In view of the fact that the increase in the exchange fee alone is not capable of compensating the fact that the exchange rate can be established in an inflexible manner on the basis of the applicable change law standard, in any case only 6 per cent, the bill allows the application of the late payment interest under the Civil Code for the issue and payment of the exchange rate. The introduction of this will also ensure payment of the transmission debt and the proper functioning of the transmission system in the event of a possible increase in market interest rates. What is significant novelty is the replacement of the Hungarian National Bank previously designated as a place of reckoning in this function. At the time of the creation of the 1965 legislation, the fact that the central bank could serve as a place of payment in order to settle the security claim was due to the fact that a single-level banking system was in place in Hungary. However, this solution was exceeded by the introduction of a two-tier banking system due to the decline in the direct relationship of the central bank with the holders. In order to fulfil the obligations laid down in the international agreement and to enable the legal institution of the designated settlement point to fulfil its payment role, the credit institutions serving commercial purposes take over the tasks of the Hungarian National Bank. The bill also clarifies, where possible, the rules on change law in cases other than those listed above. At the same time, it does not affect the elements of the transmission law for which the Geneva Convention has not expressly authorised. It renews the provisions on change-trials, because some of the special provisions of the 1952 Pp., which are scattered over the change-trials, were intended only to ensure a rapid assessment of the change-trials. Traditional substantive change rigour, adapted to the specific and privileged nature of the change claim, also creates a procedural redeeming rigour in the event of court enforcement of the change-rights claim. With this proposal, the 2016 CXXX on Civil Procedure. It lays down more stringent procedural rules in favour of the enforcement of the change claim than the general rules of the Act. In view of the nature of the exchanger's special security, the proposal refers the changers to the judicial powers combined with the mandatory legal representation. In order to speed up the procedure, the court provides for an exception to all measures taken by the court, which also applies at the stage of redress. The procedural change rigour envisaged by the proposal in the changeover cases justifies the shortening of the time limits laid down in the civil procedure, thus ensuring a tighter trial process for the privileged change claim. Overall, the law on the rules of change will strengthen the shifter's discipline in a favourable manner, and will be able to provide the framework for the application of the law in line with the existing life and legal relationships. Dear Parliament, We have discussed the renewal of the changer law in accordance with the bill, with the organisations of interest organisations familiar with the theory and practice of the changer, and with the representatives of the law, who unanimously supported it. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have the Vezónok speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Répássy Robert, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-14-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Regulation No 1/1965 on the publication of the text of the bills of exchange adopted on the basis of Decree-Law No 1/1965 of 1965, declaring the 1930 Geneva Convention on International Change, and its authorisation. The 2004 Ministry of Justice decree, dated 24 January, introduced a revision under the Geneva Convention in the context of changed circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, The Decree-Law provides for the possibility of modernising and clarifying the rules on change law on issues which are not governed by the Geneva Convention or may have been explicitly left open to national legislation. Taking advantage of this opportunity, the government has developed a unified concept to ensure that the change-rights regulation meets the challenges and practices of today and the existing legal gaps are filled. By drawing up the bill, important additional rules, such as provisions on the exact location of the shifter's actions, the formal notification system or the obligation of the notary to register the protester to search for the address of the changer will be established in the case of a protest on the grounds of the enforceability of the claim for reimbursement, if the location of the changer concerned is not accurately indicated by the changer itself. The bill strengthens the transmission rigour and follows the market conditions, increases the rate of the exchange fee that can be demanded for a duly executed changer, as well as makes the interest on late payments and the exchange rate linked to the interest on late payments under the Civil Code, providing life-like flexibility in the event of an increase in market interest rates. The bill also creates a procedural change-strict in the event of the enforcement of the change-rights claim in court, adapted to the specific and privileged nature of the change-over claim. With this proposal, the 2016 CXXX on Civil Procedure. It lays down more stringent procedural rules in favour of the enforcement of the change claim than the general rules of the Act. The proposal takes the provisions of the Decree-Law on bills of exchange to a significant extent, due to the non-refusal rules, and deviates from the provisions of the single change law laid down by the international treaty only in so far as explicitly provided for in Appendices 1 to 3 of the Decree-Law. With the entry into force of this Act, the publication of the text of the bills of exchange shall be repealed with effect from 1/1965. IM Regulation. Overall, the bill therefore streamlines to a significant extent the rules on exchange law in the light of international legislation and makes them more favourable to the law-abiding parties in a changing market context and, by modernising the regulation of the changer, which can be used by citizens only exceptionally today, but widely by the economy as a means of credit and as a means of payment, greatly improves the safety of economic operators. [[17.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, Please support this bill, which aims to create a uniform set of standards, which takes account of the practice of today's economic life and helps to apply the law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-11-14-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In virtually the vast majority of the bill on change-rights, the bill on change-rights rules, contains a major part of the text of the international convention. The converter is treated as a kind of negotiable securities representing a one-sided and unclaimed money debt. It is rarely used in Hungary today, and I must add that it could even be qualified to perform certain tasks, especially as I perceive it, for example, to play a certain role in relation to circular debt, it could also be a useful tool for managing circular debt. If you look at it historically, you can see that it is the second. During the period before World War II, the shifter was widespread, and in the period of the 1990s it was reliving the Renaissance. However, the situation is different today, because either the shock in bankruptcy or the shock in the wake of the winding-up legislation has, to say the least, reduced the shifter's functioning. At present, if I perceive it correctly, it is somewhat in foreign trade, in foreign trade trade that there is still some sort of role for the transmission. What I see is that in the domestic economic environment and taking into account our established financial culture, practically, in a quote sign, the shifter has become a body stranger, so the possibility of its use is starting to wear out, its practical role in a sense, you might say, is converging to zero. As a result, we feel that the content of this legislative amendment proposal is still in question today in order to ensure our support for the ruling party. I think that you need to be able to make it the subject of a more thorough, deeper analysis so that this can happen. I do not wish to reject the story, that is not what it is about, but, as I said, we believe that the role of the changer in Hungary has been reduced in the past. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-11-14-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-11-14-169	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat, once again, what Mr Pál Völner said as rapporteur and my fellow Member, Mr Répássy, as lead speaker, but I think it is important to stress that the change of legislation has not been renewed since 1965, so that, in the changed circumstances, the revision of the Geneva Convention has become current. The fact that the change legislation itself has become extremely dusty, as our fellow Member Nándor Gúr said, has led to the fact that it is practically becoming more and more restrictive in practice at the moment, but this bill wants to recreate the possibility that it is not just a theoretical means of payment, but also a means of payment that different economic operators can use properly in their daily lives. The bill therefore seeks to allow a legal institution of its old law once again to be used in practice and also to establish a settlement payment, which may serve as an alternative place for the presentation of the changer for payment, in addition to the payment place otherwise indicated on the transmission. The bill renews the provisions on changers, because some of the special provisions of the old Pp., which were scattered about the changers, were intended only to ensure the swift treatment of the changers, but not the guarantee rules themselves. The bill re-establishs the traditional substantive rigour, the redeeming rigour, adapted to the specific and privileged nature of the change claim; it re-creates the possibility of enforcing the change-rights claim in court, thereby making the proposal CXXX of 2016 on civil order. It lays down more stringent procedural rules in favour of the enforcement of the change claim than the general rules of the Act. Ladies and Gentlemen, Overall, the bill therefore modernises the regulation of the changer, which can be used both as a loan instrument and as a payment instrument, greatly improving the safety of economic operators in this respect. On this basis, the parliamentary faction of the Christian Democratic People's Party is very pleased that such a traditional institution, such as the right to change, is re-established in Hungarian practice and therefore supports the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-14-171	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have come before us a legal institution that has been regulated by the Hungarian Parliament quite a long time ago, and, as interesting as it is, it was not regulated by the Hungarian Parliament, since this is another decree-law decree, which announced a 1930 Geneva Convention on International Change Law in Hungary, namely 35 years later, in 1965. This was the first Decree-Law No 1 of 1965, so it contained those rules. We have seen that the institution of the changer in socialism did not really work, because it was not in the framework of socialism that the changer's legal institution was invented, and, as the previous speakers have already mentioned, it was more important between the two world wars, and in the period after the change of regime, it was revived, in some cases used, exploited, and even the problem was that the changer's legal institution was often tried to be used as an abuse. As a practicing lawyer, I too came into contact with this in the '90s, and I would rather talk about negative experiences if the institution of the change was to be used here in Hungary in the '90s. I think it is important that we re-regulate this and give it a new framework, not only in itself, so that another legislative regulation contained its rules in Hungary, not only for this reason alone, but I think that if we actually use it, then it is really important that we establish the framework for this. [[17 .30]] Although it is certain that the Geneva Convention, which, as I mentioned, was born in 1930, has been quite thorough in regulating the substantive system of exchange law. And when the legislator's intention, or the government's intention, came up with a new legislation in this regard, it was among the objectives that it was necessary to change the procedural part of it, or to create it, because it was not very much contained in the Geneva Convention, or it considered this part of the Geneva Convention to be under the jurisdiction of each country in order to establish these rules by the legislative bodies and bodies of each country. That's how it got here, to us, but not just the procedural part, but also the financial part of it. Obviously, what we see when this draft legislation is drafted is that it takes into account the existing legal practice in the establishment of procedural law, which is very important. Obviously, a practice of this has developed in Hungary. The aim of the legislator was to ensure that the new Civil Procedure Act does not regulate the procedural law of the exchange of rights, does not regulate the procedure for the enforceability of rights, and that is why it is also necessary to regulate in this legislation the procedural order that has been left out of civil procedure. There are obviously two parts of the current legislation. It's the first one on his financial law. It defines the concept, content, transfer, acceptance of the changer, the changer, the method of payment and the acceptance of the claim for reimbursement in the absence of payment; it defines the limitation period, determines the interest rate and a lot of things at the same time. Then the fifth part of the proposal is the one in which the major substantive or procedural rules identified as the legislative objective have been put in place. This is the court of general jurisdiction, so it's a court of first instance. What the legislator and the proposer find very important is that the procedure relating to the transmission be brought before the courts in an out-of-court procedure. This is a very important part of procedural law, and the principle of extraneousity will apply practically throughout the entire procedure at all stages of the procedure. So the court can set a maximum deadline of 30 days; a maximum period of one month; no place for intervention; no place for action; no place for a counterclaim; no time limit for a trial; no time limit of 8 days; no time limit of 3 days in the judgment; no time limit of 15 days from the court to write; no opportunity for an appeal, of course, or a request for a review, but no time limit of 30 days; no place for a certificate in the event of failure. So these procedural rules clearly show that this is an out-of-court procedure and should be completed very quickly. I remember that in the 1990s there was a similar way of regulation, but it took several years for such a good change-of-life trial, so I wonder if this regulation will actually be able to speed up in substance, but in any case it seems forward-looking. And what I have already mentioned, the practice is taken into account in this proposal. What I might be able to point out as a negative is that the legislation on interest payments seems a little chaotic. It's regulated, but it's not entirely consistent in this area. So this is the one that might be able to be refined a little bit. By the way, I think that regulation is necessary, that the regulation has no political content, no voice. There are no other legislation or amendments that would be politically motivated, so I believe that this proposal can be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-14-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have speeches from Members. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP Group.
u2017-11-14-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We met a lot in the family estate, for example, with the pendant-based transmission from great parents or grandparents, if not elsewhere, then this method of payment appeared in old Hungarian films and became known. The converter is a negotiable security representing a unilateral and unclaimed money debt. Unfortunately, it has been rarely used recently, but if there is sufficient trust, it would also be able to deal with the current rounds. By the way, before the Second World War, it was very widespread in our country, and then in the early 1990s, it re-lived its renaissance, and then the shock following the bankruptcy and winding-up legislation, let's say, significantly reduced its operation. At present, it still has some role to play in external trade. The shifter is a living financial product that is widespread in countries with a more advanced financial culture, which is used not only by businesses but also by individuals, but my fellow Member, Mr Gúr, has already said as a lead speaker that the MSZP fraction will remain. By the way, not to dispute the provisions of the international agreement, however, the domestic economic environment and financial culture have made the transmission virtually foreign, so the practical role of this is very small, you might say, that it is approaching zero, so we will abstain. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-14-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2017-11-14-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Very briefly. Indeed, the shifter has been declining in recent years, but among those who use it, it remains a very important tool. And the amendments that are now included in this draft will ensure precisely the smoother and more efficient use of them. I therefore continue to ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-14-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft law on the protection of business secrets until closure. Government referral T/18315. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2017-11-14-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, T/1831 on the establishment of a law on the protection of business secrets and the amendment of related legislation The aim of the adoption of the bill is to transpose the directive on protection against unauthorised acquisition, exploitation and disclosure of non-public know-how and business information into Hungarian law. The directive on which the law is based has become necessary because innovative enterprises are increasingly exposed to unfair conduct to steal business secrets, such as unauthorised reproduction, industrial espionage or breach of confidentiality obligations. Recent processes, such as globalisation, increasing outsourcing of activities, ever longer supply chains and increased use of information and communication technologies, have contributed to an increase in the risks arising from these behaviours. Unauthorized acquisition, exploitation or disclosure of business secrets reduces the chances for business secrets holders to take advantage of their situational advantage through their innovation efforts. Without effective and similar legal instruments throughout the Union to protect business secrets, innovation activities in the cross-border internal market will not be properly encouraged. [[17.40]] Business secrets therefore cannot sufficiently fulfil their role as catalysts for growth and job creation. As a result, the tendency to innovative and creative creation as well as the desire to invest will be reduced, and this will adversely affect the smooth functioning and growth-enhancing capacity of the internal market. International efforts under the auspices of the World Trade Organisation to address this problem have led to the conclusion of the Agreement on trade aspects of intellectual property. The Convention provides, inter alia, for the protection of business secrets against unauthorised acquisition, exploitation or disclosure by third parties, for which it establishes common international standards. The Convention is binding on all Member States and on the Union itself. However, despite the establishment of the Convention, there are considerable differences between the laws of the Member States as regards the protection of business secrets against unauthorised acquisition, exploitation or disclosure by third parties. It has therefore become necessary to harmonise them at EU level, because the differences in legal protection granted by Member States to business secrets entail that business secrets do not enjoy a uniform level of protection in the Union. This leads to the fragmentation of the internal market in this area and the overall deterrent effect of the relevant rules is weakened. The state of the internal market is affected by the fact that the differences in question have reduced the incentive effect for businesses to engage in cross-border innovation-related economic activities which depend on the exploitation of information protected as business secrets. With regard to the bill resulting from the successful and timely transposition of the Directive, it should be pointed out that the new conceptual approach, legal institutions and procedural rules for the protection of business secrets resulting from the Directive have not been incorporated into the civil code and the new civil order law, but are incorporated into the system of national law through the creation of a new legislation. Accordingly, the bill is divided into two main units: a material legal part and a procedural part. This new legislation is based on the model of intellectual property rights, so-called sectoral laws, according to the requirements of the Directive. Let me be the first to explain, in line with the structure of the bill, the substantive provisions and changes in relation to the current protection of business secrets. According to the current logic of the Civil Code, private secrets are protected by personal rights, similarly to a type of business secret identified as private secrets. This solution, on the one hand, results in a paradoxical, self-controversial situation, as the business secret, although it is a personality right, still in practice its property side dominates, is part of the commercial concept. On the other hand, the current approach is not sustainable because the Directive explicitly regulates the provisions on business secrecy from a material legal perspective. This made it necessary to remove the substantive provision on the protection of business secrets from the personal rights part of the civil code and from a separate legal act. As the provisions on business secrecy are removed from the personality legal part of the Civil Code, protection based on personal rights will be transformed. In the future, the business secret will not be of a personality legal nature, but will be protected by the new legislation, of a material legal nature. This resolves, on the one hand, the paradoxical solution already described in the existing civil code, namely that business secrets and protected knowledge are protected by personal rights, while at the same time being marketable and alienated. At the same time, it is necessary to emphasise that the proposed solution is consistent not only with the EU but also with the other international conventions governing it, including, in particular, the Convention on Trade in Intellectual Property. If the bill is adopted, therefore, the private secrets of natural and legal persons will be protected in the same way as the existing provisions, while business secrets and proprietary knowledge will be protected by special protection based on the logic and sanctioning system of intellectual property protection. This does not mean, of course, that, if a business secret is also private, it would not be possible to properly enforce the needs set out in the Civil Code. Furthermore, the bill contains a new approach to the limits of business secrecy, as laid down in the Directive, complementing the new, more extensive and effective sanctioning system introduced by the Directive. In order to stimulate innovation and competition, the provisions of the Directive and thus the proposed legislation should not create exclusive rights to know-how or information protected as business secrets. In this way, the possibility of an independent discovery of the same know-how or information can be maintained. The technical interpretation of legally acquired products should also be regarded as a legitimate means of obtaining information. However, the freedom to conclude such contractual agreements may be legally limited, but the lack of the consent of the rightholder is not sufficient for the infringement to be carried out, but, as an additional condition, an act contrary to the principle of good faith and integrity is necessary. At the same time, the scope of exceptions will be extended compared to the system in the current civil code, ensuring, inter alia, the proper exercise of the representative rights of workers or even the rights deriving from freedom of expression. Under the Directive, exceptions to protection include cases where the acquisition, exploitation or disclosure of a business secret is made possible by a legal act or act of the Union directly applicable. Therefore, cases where such information is considered to be a business secret are not listed in the bill, but this does not, however, provide for an exception to domestic law or other directly applicable EU legislation. In particular, the Act on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information, which qualifies certain business secrets as public data in the public interest, should be emphasised. These are not classified as business secrets. At the same time, it is important that Member States have been authorised to provide for a wider scope of protection in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In order to ensure the fullness of the defence, it appears necessary to move as far as possible into the Act on the Protection of Business Secrets the proven sanctions and procedural facilitations of intellectual property laws. Full take-over is only not possible where the EU legislator consciously deviates from the proven sanction system due to the specific limited protection of the business secret. The sanctioning system is also complemented by the legal institution of alternative financial compensation, which has so far been unknown in Hungarian law, the possibility to publish decisions at the expense of the infringer, and the mandatory discretions to be taken into account by the court. By extending and fine-tuning the sanctioning system, the right holders may be granted instruments which are fully capable of combating infringements of commercial confidentiality rights. These instruments therefore stimulate business activities from SMEs to large companies, in particular innovation and R &amp; D efforts. It is important to emphasise the following, moving to the other large structural unit of the bill, the procedural part. In civil proceedings concerning the protection of business secrets, which are specifically related to breaches of business secrets, a more stringent obligation to protect secrets than the rules of the Civil Procedure Act is introduced, similarly to provisions relating to access to documents. The specific nature of such proceedings is that the disclosure and examination of the content of the business secret is unavoidable, because the alleged infringer may rely primarily on the fact that the business secret claimed by the rightholder is not protected, so that the complete prohibition of the disclosure of the business secret cannot be imposed, at least by the parties and their legal representatives, the party other than the rightholder or, in the case of his legal representative, by imposing adequate confidentiality obligations, and even by making it available to the expert. In addition, the legislation on interim measures is supplemented by specific rules adapted to the specific legal object. In addition to the assurance provided by the alleged infringer, the possibility of continuing to allow the conduct of the infringer to continue will also be introduced. [[17.50]] In enforcement proceedings relating to breaches of business secrets, as well as in the case of intellectual property rights sectoral laws, and in accordance with the provisions of the Directive, it should also be possible to impose, in the event of non-compliance with the judgment of the court, an enforcement penalty, even repeated, which is intended to increase the effectiveness of enforcement. Emphasising the concept of business secrecy from the civil code system necessarily involves amending the provisions of the legislation referring to the code. The amendment of the law on unfair market conduct and the prohibition of competition should also be highlighted in particular. In the event of a breach of business secrecy, a double legal basis, the law on unfair market conduct and the prohibition of competition, and the civil code, have been initiated so far. However, this double system was less transparent. At the same time as transposing the rules of the Directive, there would be an overlap with the protection provided by the law on unfair market conduct and the prohibition of competition, which would jeopardise the effective enforcement of the provisions of the Directive. The double legal basis can therefore no longer be maintained. On this basis, the rules on the protection of business secrets are excluded from the law on unfair market conduct and the prohibition of competition, and the protection of business secrets is uniformly implemented in accordance with the legislation contained in this proposal. On this basis, if the bill is adopted, it will be possible to act on the basis of the Act on the Protection of Business Secrets, both against breach of business integrity and against breach of business secrecy without such effect. In the context of social consultation, the bill has also been widely consulted on the part of those involved in the application of the law. The Hungarian Competition Association, the AmCham American-Hungarian Chamber of Commerce, the Hungarian Chamber of Law, the Hungarian Association of Industrial Law Protection and Copyright gave an opinion. The comments received in the course of social consultation have also contributed to the development of a more effective legislation that can be better applied in practice.
u2017-11-14-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Member Robert Répássy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2017-11-14-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The creation of a directive on the basis of which the law is based has become necessary because innovative companies are increasingly exposed to unfair market conduct to steal business secrets, such as breach of confidentiality. As a result, the beneficiaries of the business secret are less likely to take advantage of their situational advantage. In fact, business secrets do not sufficiently fulfil their role of catalysing growth and job creation, which reduces the tendency to create creativity or the desire to invest. An agreement has been reached to address the problem, including the protection against the unauthorised acquisition, exploitation or disclosure of business secrets by third parties, for which common international standards are laid down. The above-mentioned agreement is binding on all Member States and on the Union itself, but there are differences between Member States' rules, so it is essential to harmonise them at EU level. In view of this, the transposition into Hungarian law of Directive 2016/943/EU on protection against unauthorised acquisition, exploitation and disclosure of non-public know-how and business information can be considered a goal. Failure to do so may lead to infringement proceedings against Hungary. Furthermore, it was necessary to exclude the substantive provisions on the protection of business secrets from the personal rights part of the civil code and from a separate legislation. The provisions relating to the business secret are set out in Ptk. By avoiding personality rights, protection based on personality rights is changing, the business secret will be protected in the future, not by personality law, but by property protection provided by the new legislation. Private secrets of natural and legal persons will be protected by personal rights in the same way as so far, while business secrets and proprietary knowledge or know-how will enjoy special protection based on the logic and sanctioning system of intellectual property protection. The bill contains a new approach to the limits of business secrecy, as laid down in the directive, complementing the new, more extensive and effective sanctioning system introduced by the Directive. At the same time, the scope of the exceptions is extended compared to the system in the current civil code, thereby ensuring, inter alia, the proper exercise of reporting for the purpose of protecting the public interest. The system of penalties for breaching the business secret is also added to the legal institution of alternative monetary opposition, which is unknown in Hungarian law, the possibility of publishing decisions at the expense of infringers, and the mandatory weighing criteria to be taken into account by the court. It can be said that the legal institution has already been an optional option in Article 12 of the so-called Enforcement Directive, but it is now becoming an obligation. The right of business secrets holders is strengthened by the changes introduced in the context of enforcement, since the effectiveness of the measures, procedures and remedies available may be undermined if the relevant decisions taken by the competent court are not complied with. It is therefore necessary to ensure that those authorities have adequate sanctioning powers. For this reason, the 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement will be amended. Law 180/A Article 2 (1) (a) Pursuant to compliance with the above-mentioned agreement, in cases of infringement of the trade mark, infringement of the protection of a geographical indication, infringement of the protection of a design, infringement of an additional protection certificate, infringement of the provisions on unfair conduct on the market and prohibition of competition or infringement of copyright, it has been possible to determine the fine to be paid in the event of delay and, in the future, to impose a fine in the event of the enforcement of a decision on a breach of the right to a business secret. Overall, the legislative task created by the Directive cannot be achieved by amending the civil code and the civil order, which was similarly expressed by the group of external experts invited by the Ministry of Justice. The creation of independent legislation can be considered the only solution that does not adversely affect the unity of the former codes and the legal system, and also contains the relevant legislation in one place and transparently, thus facilitating the application of the law, which is supported by the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association Group. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-11-14-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill on the protection of business secrets, if calculated correctly, brings with it the amendment of more than 20 laws. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: 25!]] Twenty-five, say my fellow Member. According to the civil code in force, business secrets and private secrets are protected by personal rights. Now they're rejecting it. From now on, the business secret is protected by property rights. [[18.00]] On 1 June 2018, the draft law will enter into force and on 1 January 2018 the date on which the rules of the Competition Act enter into force ahead of that, so it will enter into force six months earlier. It does not endanger, jeopardise, or undermine fundamental rights and freedoms in our view, but only facts or knowledge protected from legitimate interest can be protected as business secrets. The need to strengthen the system of rules on the right to the public disclosure of public information in the general interest or in the public interest, which could have been, what is, what is, could have been responded now. Of course, I can say with a calm spirit, there was no chance of any reaction, it wasn't. As a business secret, I can also say with regard to public data of general interest and public interest that this remains chaos. The Act on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information - 2011 if my memoirs do not deceive me - states that, as public data in the public interest - I mention only examples - does not constitute a business secret, for example, the use of central or local government budgets, the use of EU support or the management of public or municipal property, but also the burden of property. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] In my view, the rules of the proposal should have been aligned with the provisions of the info law. We don't see this happening. As a result of this and many other experiences, we can say with a calm spirit that this bill is a bill that can be considered unprofessional. Yes, we can say all this with a calm spirit, the proposal of Trócsányi put together in an acute form, and in this way the Hungarian Socialist Party will not be able to support this bill. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2017-11-14-182	Thank you very much. Good evening, everyone. We will continue with the keynote speeches. Mr Imre Vejkey, lead speaker at KDNP, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2017-11-14-183	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat what Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner has said so thoroughly on the bill, nor what Robert Répássy added as lead speaker. But I think it is necessary to stress what the purpose of the bill is. The purpose of the adoption of the bill is to transpose Directive 2016/943/EU into Hungarian law on protection against unauthorised acquisition, exploitation and disclosure of non-public know-how and business information. We have just heard the speaker's speech by our fellow Member Nándor Gúr. He said that the MSZP faction will not accept this bill. For my part, I believe that the objections raised by our fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, do not really concern us, but the legislators in Brussels who prepared this directive. Ladies and Gentlemen, For the acquisition, development and application of know-how and information as a currency of the knowledge economy, investment by businesses and non-business research institutions. Dear House, Open innovation stimulates the emergence of new ideas that meet consumers' needs and address societal challenges and allows them to access the market. Innovation of this kind is an important driver for the creation of new knowledge and facilitates the development of new and innovative business models based on knowledge. The creation of a directive on the basis of which the law is based has become necessary because the business secret is one of the most common forms of protection of intellectual creation and innovative know-how among businesses, but at the same time it has been protected by EU legislation prior to the creation of the directive in the least against the unauthorized acquisition, exploitation or disclosure by others. Ladies and Gentlemen, According to the current logic of the Civil Code, private secrets are protected by personal rights, similarly to business secrets identified as a type of private secret. This solution, on the one hand, results in a paradoxical, self-controversial situation, given that the business secret, although it is a right of personality, but in practice it dominates the property, its property side. On the other hand, it is not sustainable because the directive itself specifically regulates it from a property and non-personal legal perspective on business secrets. The primary objective of the adoption of the bill is therefore to transpose Directive 2016/943/EU into Hungarian law. Failure to do so would obviously lead to the launch of infringement proceedings against Hungary. In addition, it is necessary to exclude the substantive provisions concerning the protection of business secrets from the scope of the Ptk. the personal rights part of it and the placement of it in a separate legal act. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the event of the adoption of the bill, private secrets of natural and legal persons will enjoy privacy protection in the same way as to date, while business secrets and proprietary knowledge or know-how will enjoy special protection based on the logic and sanctioning system of intellectual property protection. This does not, of course, mean what my fellow Member Nándor Gúr said in his speech as a keynote speaker, because it will mean that, if a business secret is also a private secret, it can continue to be assessed on the basis of the civil code, the needs set out therein can also be properly enforced. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-11-14-184	Thank you very much. Congressman Csaba Gyüre, lead speaker of the Jobbik. Here you go.
u2017-11-14-185	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is a whole new piece of legislation that lies before us. So far, the civil code has regulated the issues that are now contained in the new legislation. It also serves to comply with an EU directive, the EU Directive 2016/943, and this new legislation, this new proposal also amends 25 pieces of legislation if adopted. Is it important to protect business secrets? Of course, it is important in every rule of law, in every legally operating country, to protect business secrets, because the business secret is something that a certain enterprise or individual has invented, which he has developed and can sell, and that is what he can sell, and it will benefit him financially, and obviously, if this business secret is known to others, he will suffer material damage from it. So just as any material right, this as well as a material right, must be protected. The question is whether it should be protected as a personal right or as a material right. [[18.10]] But to give you some examples: what is perhaps the oldest such protected secret, business secret in Hungary? This is Zwack Unicum, which has been a secret since 1790. How interesting that his name is II. Joseph gave it to this drink. When your court doctor, Dr. Zwack, offered you a small elixir that he developed during his fever, you said that you are Das ist ein Unicum! "I'm sorry," said II. Joseph, and this was named Unicum at the time, that this would be his name. The original recipe has been preserved ever since, and only two people can know what this secret is, and the Zwack Unicum recipe is placed on a secret deposit in the Primary and Main Chantry Archives of Esztergom. In Hungary, the other interesting secret is Pick winter salami, which, if not as long ago as it has been developed since 1790, but this is looking back on much more than a hundred years of history. There, too, a well-developed meat product was made, thanks to the unique process, the secret seasoning and the unique ripening, which gives the particular flavour and special delicacy that I think almost every Hungarian person - and many foreigners who taste it - loves very much. And what the seasoning of winter salami is like, two people might know, and practically the ageing process, which also has secret parts, only a few people will know. Not only in Hungary, for example, which is also legendary, Coca-Cola, whose recipe is sometimes published to the public that some people have discovered and know, but their real recipe has not yet been deciphered, and it is also held in a vault; as is the flavour of KFC's panire from 11 medicinal and herbal plants, which also constitutes a business secret, and is kept in a vault in Lewisville. So we also see that they keep these biggest business secrets in a vault, and how important it is to the owner of the business secret, so that it doesn't get out, because then anyone could produce them, and that would obviously mean financial damage to him. That is why it is important to protect it, and the scope of the law extends to business secrets as well as protected knowledge, know-how. However, business secrets can be used. This business secret can be sold, made public, but obviously, whoever doesn't care will not do that. However, it does not constitute a breach of the right to a business secret if a person discovers or develops the same thing entirely on his own, it does not constitute a breach of confidentiality unless he obtains it in a way that is contrary to the law. So unauthorized acquisition counts for this, or unauthorized exploitation, unauthorized discovery. There are sanctions for breach of the right to a business secret. The finding, termination, prohibition, banning or destruction of an infringement, the recall of such goods, the cessation of the situation of injury, the recovery of enrichment by infringement, the publication of a decision in the case, and in addition general compensation may be requested. It falls within the jurisdiction of the General Court and, of course, in the course of the proceedings, the parties to the proceedings are bound by confidentiality, so if the business secret is disclosed in some form during the judicial proceedings, the parties will be bound by confidentiality in the same way. I think that an important legal institution is the preservation of business secrets, and this is a Eligible bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey applauds.]]
u2017-11-14-186	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent Member is not in the room, but Member Attila Mesterházy, MSZP has applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2017-11-14-187	Thank you very much, and I welcome the President here in this Chamber.
u2017-11-14-188	Good evening.
u2017-11-14-189	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, If we are talking about business secrets, we have gone through a lot of important and useful aspects of the debate, and I am sure that Pick salami, Unicum and even Coca-Cola are very important, but I would like to draw attention to another aspect, namely how the government is trying to make public data claims impossible with reference to business secrets. Several times, we asked Volán companies or public corporations for different data, and we often received the rejoinder that they could not provide the requested data on the basis of such a commercial secret. I therefore think that, while, of course, the recommendations of many European Union and many other international organisations should be taken into account, they should be transposed into the Hungarian legal order, and that is correct and good, but at the same time it is worth paying attention to how and how we apply these laws and how we want to use them in order to make access to information difficult. I am also saying this on the basis of the fact that I know that there are often conflicting fundamentals and values in law, which is causing serious disputes in the legal society. It is also possible to mention them here in connection with the business secret, for sure, but I am now looking further away from this, and once again, I asked for the floor for a more grounded approach, namely, to ask the government not to hide behind the business secret, when opposition representatives want data, information, or even prominent representatives of the media, because these are the most common data, and transparency, always increases confidence, and a government always needs it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-14-190	Thank you very much. Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik, in two minutes!
u2017-11-14-191	Thank you very much for the floor. What my fellow Member has said about this is very important. I wanted to tell you myself, and I forgot about it in my speech as a keynote speaker, that it is very important not to abuse the provision of data of general interest on the basis of business secrets. So we consider this very important so that we cannot hide possible state corruption behind this, that we are proclaiming a business secret, and in this case we fail to control it, and we fail to have transparency. It is very important that this should not be mentioned, but there is no provision for this in this bill, but it is feared that this may also be applied where appropriate. But we would like this to never arise with regard to this law, that data of public interest is being encrypted. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-14-192	Thank you very much. We will return to the speakers who have asked for a normal word. Congressman Zsolt Legány, MSZP!
u2017-11-14-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to address my fellow Member Vejkey as a speaker. My fellow Member said that the MSZP lead speaker, Nándor Gúr, was actually referring to an EU directive, and you said that we are not really dealing with this bill, but rather, as you say, with Brussels bureaucrats. No, Mr President, I would like to say that we do not have a problem and a problem with the European Union directive, but we simply think that the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP in Parliament did not achieve greater glory in civil law, civil procedural law, criminal law, criminal law or even administrative procedural law, because a number of errors, flopping, has been made before the entry into force of the laws, as we have repeatedly remembered here in Parliament. They now highlight from the Civil Code the protection of business secrets and knowledge within the scope of personal rights, which in the future will be transformed into property protection. This could also be a positive step if it were not specifically now, as Mr Gúr said, in an unprofessional and hasty way to submit this bill. And as you said, my fellow Member Nándor Gúr, we will not be able to support the bill drafted by the Minister of Trocsányi and his staff, so that is why we will vote no, and we would not have a problem with the Brussels bureaucrats or the EU directive. Mr. President. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. [[18.20]]
u2017-11-14-194	Thank you very much. Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2017-11-14-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wanted to tell you three things, but I am only talking about two more, because it was my colleague Zsolt Legány who spoke about one. I won't repeat the story, but I agree with him. The other two things - I do this in a confirmation manner - are what Attila Mesterházy talked about. We believe, and we also see, that, where appropriate, hiding data classified as of public interest, hidden behind the heading of the business secret. Obviously, I'd go a long way if I started dealing with Tao resources, so I won't start. But if I said tao, then this question tells you something about how and how they try to deny anything, even though the Curia makes decisions. I'm not gonna go along with it, you know-- you should be ashamed of it. But what I'm trying to say is, yes, it's incorrect and unfair if they really want to hide public information behind the title of business secrets. And the third thing is that I would like to confirm once again that, with regard to the info law and the draft law on business secrets, synchronization and harmonisation would be worth doing, which we believe is not exactly justified. We're not just saying that they're coming to the House with a crude bill. But I gotta tell you, I've seen worse. For the past seven and a half years, I'm not saying that this is, in this sense, the worst-prepared bill, I've seen worse today, both last week and last month. And you know, especially when individual MEPs have tabled legislative proposals or drafts as their own motion. It would be appropriate and reasonable to strive to be as well based on sound and broad social consultation as possible - Mr Secretary of State has said some of the discussions that have been carried out, and I said that they are not the most unprepared - and if they are able to do so, and if they are able to do so, with due respect, to draft laws that do not need to be amended every week, every two weeks or every month, because we have seen them and I can provide examples, then it is also right to expect opposition representatives to support or amend their legislative process. I wanted to make these three brief comments. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-11-14-196	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Members present! Peace and friendship! Does anyone else wish to make use of the speech at 6:21 p.m.? [[There's no candidate.]] As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. Secretary of State wishes to reflect. Here you go.
u2017-11-14-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, briefly. There was a series of concerns about data of general interest. In practice, the info law is not affected by this type of legislation or its text, so public interest data can continue to be requested in the same way as it was expanded after 2010, much wider than before. The fact that there is a kind of boundary between business secrecy and public interest data, where sometimes judicial interpretation is needed, does not mean that the vast majority of data in the public sector is not received at first notice by any opposition representatives. Obviously, there are controversial cases when the court decides, but I don't think that should be put on the account of this law, which is right here in front of us. I may have been too long or too boring in the expo, and my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, couldn't follow exactly, but I also said that exceptions can be defined in other laws and regulations, so that it is possible to make the concept of business secrets more defenceless. Thank you very much for my fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, who actually tried to stay on the subject. As far as the general criticism is concerned, I do not want to discuss it with regard to this law, because it would be a political polychemistry and I am trying to remain professional. Thank you very much for the speeches and for your support for the proposal. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-14-198	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, My next briefing is that we are at the end of today's meeting. Thank you very much for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. All of you and everyone who's been watching our work, good evening, good night. [[Meeting ended at 6:26 p.m.]]
