u2017-05-16-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 25th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and István Szávay will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with speeches before the agenda. Speaking before the agenda, MEP László Teleki, MSZP Group:. The government offices covered for Flórian Farkas! It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2017-05-16-1	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, How long will the limit of lawlessness last? There is no citizen in this country and perhaps a European politician who has not heard of the ravaged bridge of the National Roma Municipality and the Minister's Commissioner Flórian Farkas. For two and a half years, the IRS has been investigating, but so far there has not been a single suspect interrogation, even though the lawlessness, the irregularity which the Ministry of Human Resources has recognised in its own investigation, has been exorbitant. If the implementation of the project had not been irregular, the taxpayers would not have been harmed, then why would the government have demanded from the National Roma Municipality HUF 1.6 billion back? If they did not want to protect the sinners and not the government's patrons, personally Florian Farkas, then why did the government take over 1.3 billion forints of this debt, further damaging the Hungarian taxpayers? Press reports show that the illegal activities in the National Roma Municipality were covered not only by the government, but also by the Budapest Government Office, which oversees the legality of the organization. The Budapest Police Headquarters Department of Corruption and Economic Crime has ordered an investigation against the Government Office of Budapest's Capital City on suspicion of abuse - RomNet has been informed. The procedure was initiated because the government body supervising the legality of the National Roma Municipality was partial and did not sanction the failure of the Roma representative organisation to restore the rule of law. According to RomNet's information, the government office issued a quick resolution only when the former President of the Roma local government, Commissioner Flórian Farkas, served the interests of the Minister. However, other cases, such as comments on legality control, have been stalled on the conduct of investigations. Based on the allegations described, he tolerated and withheld serious deficiencies, and the failure to comply with the law was not sanctioned, because it would violate the favor of the government, the interests of his patron and the system of national non-cooperation. How does a supervisory body that doesn't comply with the law itself do its work? We trust that the investigation against the Budapest Government Office will also highlight the failure of your government. But before the likely long-term procedure, I ask: why does the Hungarian Government and its offices allow certain persons, friends and business associates of Viktor Orbán, to be above the law? Why is the Hungarian press seeking justice a scapegoat for the disclosure of your corrupt cases, not the perpetrators of the crime? Why don't the public money knights start a campaign against people and organizations who are hurting the country and the taxpayers, who are out of your ranks and your boxes? Why don't you try to stop Florian Wolf from running amok? Gypsies in Hungary live in poverty and vulnerability that has never been seen before. Recently, the country received two EU warnings. One is a research that shows that anti-Gypsyism is institutionalized in Hungary. The second is the report by the Brussels Commission, which states that ethnic discrimination in education remains an act. I ask the prominent representative of the government, Mr Secretary of State, whether the unscrupulous rescue of a person or the integration of the 800,000 Roma in Hungary is more important. Because judging by the signs, the only person that matters to the government is Flórian Farkas. It does not matter to you how the Roma musicians live in Hungary, nor does it matter to you that young people leave the education system early, the situation of those living in extreme poverty, nor does it matter to you how Roma musicians live in Hungary, nor does it matter to you that young Roma graduates leave the country in the absence of jobs or stay home starving. Dear Secretary of State, For many times, I ask the members of the government, including you, the future of a minority of 800,000 and the MSZP, how long the limit of lawlessness will last, how long the government favors and Flórian Farkas himself may remain hidden from justice. Thank you very much for your attention. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-16-2	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State, who wishes to respond on behalf of the government. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-16-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, As you well know, since the establishment of the National Roma Municipality, the National Roma Municipality has been an organisation with a great deal of problems, and there are regular debates in public opinion that cannot be settled within the parties as an internal debate, so they always ask external bodies as opposing parties to settle these disputes. This is how, among other things, the various disputes or cases of the National Roma Municipality were brought before the government offices. But those who ask for the decisions of the Government Office are not aware of the authority's powers on many issues, since the Government Office is not a investigating authority, nor is it a body investigating financial management and accounting discipline, but acts in judicial control powers, and essentially examines whether decisions taken are lawful or not on the basis of documents or protocols. As the representative should know, so should those who make various submissions to the Government Office, that the Government Office cannot impose sanctions in any case. Therefore, the expectations that they lay down against the Government Office are impossible for legal reasons. The Presidential function of Flórian Farkas was not investigated by the Government Office of Budapest Capital. István Makai lived with a petition to the Government Office, which initiated a legal check covering the period 2010-2014 of the National Roma Municipality, which indeed partly coincides with the period led by Flórian Farkas. In this regard, allow me to inform you that 196 decisions have been taken by the National Roma Municipality, which the petitioner István Makai has dealt with in the investigation of 132 decisions. As a result, he raised legal objections against 16 decisions concerning the Presidential function of Flórian Farkas, the Government Office of Budapest, mentioned by you, regarding the decisions taken by the National Roma Municipality. As a result, the government office could not prevent any accountability. The State Audit Office has further examined the management of the National Roma Municipality, and, as some portals, as you have quoted, RomNet also notes, István Makai's long-term legality check was not appreciated by the submission two years ago. On the other hand, the factual truth is that on 27 December 2016, the petitioner István Makai received a 17-page official reply from the Government Office, which gave a meaningful answer to all points of legal objection. The petitioner also objected to the fact that Mária Pálinkás, the government commissioner dealing with matters of the National Roma Municipality, in the judicial supervisory department of the Budapest Capital Office, had been removed from this task because he would not have done his job properly. [[9.10]] The real reason for the removal was that the petitioner criticized the government official conducting the investigation, who was moved by the head of the government office to do so so so that these objections could no longer stand up to him, and indeed, the petitioner was given adequate guarantees that the investigation was carried out by a person or by an institution in which the criticisms he expressed could not stand up. The objections made in the complaint against the procedure of the Government Office were out of the air, and, as you can see, they are not on a thank-you basis. Between 2014 and April 2017, regardless of who led the Roma municipality, 35 cases of legalisation were dealt with by the Government Office: 17 cases of legal aid, 8 professional assistance, 3 times a supervisory fine, 2 proposals, 2 requests for co-governments, 2 requests to examine the circumstances addressed to the President and to take measures giving cause for inadequacy, and one piece of disciplinary action. It is also clear from these that the statements made by the Member are air-borne and malicious accusations, which cannot in any way answer the problems of the Roma community, but the Member has also addressed the issue of unemployment, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that unemployment has not been Hungary's main problem since 2014, but how we can find the right workforce for vacant posts, and I think the 700 thousand new jobs that have been created under market conditions. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] supports the rise of the Hungarian gypsy society. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Interviews from the benches of the MSZP: No, it didn't happen!]]
u2017-05-16-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, the KDNP Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda: a false anti-Semitic charge - or a masterful anger against Hungary and its Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán, in a five-minute time frame.
u2017-05-16-5	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We find the accusations of Frans Timmermans, the first Vice-President of the European Commission, which he made against Hungary and its Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, to be outrageous and rejected. We're asking ourselves for our baseless demonization. We reject that we are anti-Semites because we dared to say that Soros is a financial speculator who twice attacked Hungary's own country's financial system, because we dared to say that Soros and NGO have put our country under attack, the migrant regulation of our country; because they want us to break down the physical and legal border barrier that protects us, and let illegal migrants into our territory in millions. Ladies and Gentlemen, Let's not beat around the bush, we have to say that there are people who want to openly hurt you, and they want to exterminate the indigenous Jewish-Christian values in Europe. [[Zoltán Grimlock: They did wrong when they taught Orbán.]] In the light of the above facts, the question arises as to why Brussels and Soros and Co. are incentivising the Muslim flood into Western Europe, when it is clearly accompanied by an increase in anti-Semitism. Why do they want to drive away the emancipated Jewishism over the centuries, and why do they want to replace the Muslims who confess saria? Why do they not realize that our Israelite brothers have not felt a similar threat in Western Europe since World War II? So the question is more than adequate, why are Brussels and Soros and Co. serving the resurgence of anti-Jewishism in Western Europe? Ladies and Gentlemen, There is almost none among European countries where Jewish communities could experience their identity as physically safe, legal certainty or even spiritual and spiritual well-being as well as dignity as we do in Hungary. Yet, despite the facts, Timmermans falsely accused the Hungarian government and thus Hungary. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Nazi propaganda, that's why!]] It has to be said that this is nothing more than a communist trick. That's what Stalin used to do. He forged the facts as Vice-President of the European Commission [[Zoltán Grimlock: Like the Ripost!]] In other words, they are on the same platform that if the facts are different than what they falsely claim, then the facts are gone. But the reality is that in Western Europe, but especially in France, the number of brutal attacks against the Jewish community has increased dramatically, rabbis are attacked, Jewish shops and synagogues are set on fire. Dear European Commission, Why not take action against genuine anti-Semitism? Why are they hiding these tragic situations from the European public? Is it not because most of the real anti-Semitic attacks are no longer carried out by foreign terrorists but by their own citizens in Western Europe? You know, as long as you're flabbergasted, we Hungarians are concerned about the mean anti-Semitic manifestations in Western Europe, and we stand up for our older brothers. We therefore call on you, Mr Timmermans, and the European Commission itself, to finally act against anti-Semitism, which is increasingly dominant in the Western European part of the European Union, and to use the anti-Semitian card as a political club in the future, not a wolf where it is intended to be visited on the basis of political interests, but where it really is. But to do that, you'd have to look in the mirror and realize that you're the wolves among the sheep. And it is good for them to realize that the sheep have already discovered this. What do you think you're doing in your liberal madness? ! Do you think the people of the Old and New Testament will give up their faith and value? Never! Finally, don't forget that even if all Jewish-Christian values are apparently exterminated from Europe, well, you will only win a victory in Pyrrh, because our faith in persecution will not be lost, and through the martyrs it will only grow. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-16-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Miklós Soltész wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-16-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Frans Timmermans, the first Vice-President of the European Commission, not a fifth-rate secretary, not a quarter-rate representative in the European Union, but once again, the first Vice-President of the European Commission, has made anti-Semitic accusations against Hungary and the Prime Minister of Hungary concerning a sentence worth analysing afterwards: György Soros is a financial speculator. I think that's something that few people around the world are arguing about. Linking this to anti-Semitism is also a crime against Judaism. But I would add that it is worth looking at the facts and seeing what George Soros has done as a financial speculator, and it is also worth seeing what the Hungarian government, the Hungarian people have done for Jewish communities and Jewish denominations. So how did the first part, so as a financial speculator, have György Soros worked so far? What does the word mean? He's a profiteer taking advantage of a difficult economic situation and the need for others. I think the term is clear. 1992: black September or black Wednesday, the collapse of the British pound. According to his own statement, he won HUF 1.1 billion on this speculation. He was also involved in the crisis in Southeast Asia in 97. In Hungary, under the Soclib government, OTP was attacked in 2008, and OTP shares fell completely. And in 2008, when the global economic crisis was at its peak, the financial funds fell apart, and he still won. But let's look at the other side you mentioned, part of the migrant crisis. [[9.20]] First of all, he is now saying more and more and more and more, and, in negotiating with some EU leaders, he is demanding that he borrows and issues shares in the European Union in order to receive as many migrants as possible and to relocate as many migrants as possible across Europe. Its civilized organizations generate all of this, generate population migration. We can see this on the Italian coasts and on the coasts of North Africa; we can see this in Hungary, when they themselves were handing out brochures that so-called help to migrants; and we can also see how they benefit from different lawsuits, such as the two Bangladeshi migrants who have somehow wandered into Hungary - let us say, it would also be worth tracking how two people arrive in Hungary from this distance, who have not been found since then, of course - and yet George Soros's organization, a civilian organization, the Helsinki Committee, is also benefiting from it. And if we give in to the attack, it would take billions of forints out of the Hungarian taxpayers' money. In fact, the government has supported investment in faith by HUF 19 billion over the past six to seven years. Synagogues, community squares and cemeteries have been renewed, including Kaposvár, Debrecen, Győr, Székesfehérvár, Szeged, Szombathely, Pécs, Vácott, Madon, Keszthely, Kiskunhalas, as well as across the border, such as Subotica and Beregszász. The Day of Remembrance of the Holocaust Victims was introduced by this government. The criminality of Holocaust denial in Btk was introduced by this government. The educational, social and health institutions of Jewish denominations are supported by the government to the same extent as similar institutions of the other 32 established denominations. In a cultural area, if we look at the films of recent years: for example, a successful film was made from the book Fatelessness, the film Saul won the Oscar Prize was also made with Hungarian support and support from the government. The reconstruction of the burned-down synagogue in Zugló was immediately facilitated. When the international committee of UNESCO said that Judaism had nothing to do with the Jewish Temple Mount in Jerusalem, we were the only ones who stood by them, only we raised our voice. For this reason, the Government rejects in its entirety the accusations made by the Vice-President. Péter Szijjártó and I have also called for the resignation of Mr Timmermans. And it is also important to be aware that when the arguments on the left run out when they slide down the left politically, they take out the anti-Semite card. That's what Zoltán Grimlock did a few minutes ago, and he called you when he gave his speech, and he just said yours. You think you're getting results, but it's dangerous, you're a liar, and you're not achieving your goal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Grimlock, quote back what I said. I said Orbán was Soros's greatest sin.]]
u2017-05-16-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik Group: Fideszes capitaly also came forward before the agenda. It's an address. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-16-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Friendship is above all else, friendship is more than talent - Don Corleone summarized the golden rule of the business life of the mobsters. This is the eternal truth we see in connection with the acquisition of the domestic government elite. It goes beyond the argument that the best friend in Don Vito Orbán's environment is Lőrinc Mészáros, a small industrialist who has increased by 100 billion over a year. But, of course, countless other friends await the opportunity to make up for their talents with a little help from Godfather. Of course, not everyone can have media empires, casinos or thousands of acres of estates, so Fidesz distributes apartments and business premises based on a well-established template on the automated production line of corruption. Based on the Fidesz model, it is possible to get from the quasi-social rental of a local government apartment through the renovation of it by public money to the purchase of it at a fractional price and then to pass it on at multiple prices, and of course it is fleeting in a few months. But let us not be unjust, no doubt, that the development of the model has the ultimate merit of the ever-present spiritual predecessor of Fidesz, the SZDSZ. The capital is VI. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. Its district is the intellectual product of MSZP-SZDSZ politicians, because it is the decision-making mechanism to quickly and deeply below the cost of playing downtown rent palaces for friends and related companies. At the same time, it is also true that the Fürst György procedure of SZDSZ was an essential requirement at the time when the final decision on the sale of real estate was taken by the representative body of the municipality. But this - let's say - pettyness was no longer followed by Antal Rogán, who introduced himself within the Fidesz. He, as well as his many other Fidesz colleagues, did not need the deceitful appearance of involving elected representatives in wealth management. Some press reports suggest that Árpád Habony and his extended kinship could have obtained preferential housing. But besides him, a number of businessmen near Fidesz could grow, with apartments and business premises. Tamás Portik could also feel the greatness of the truth of friendship, more than the truth of the saying of talent. Recently, however, especially since he became Minister of Rogán, we are more aware of the housing transactions of the Mayor of the Castle in Buda. In addition to his relatives and friends, he did not forget about himself, so that he could obtain preferential housing with the help of himself. But we also have to mention the cases in Ferencváros, because the family members and employees of the city leaders get real estate in order. Thus, the out-of-control Fidesz municipalities are now at a loss of billions of dollars in assets, which have squandered the public wealth, all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, The property of local authorities is a national property, and its proper management and protection is a service of the public interest, as well as the preservation of our common resources. We are convinced that transparent management, as set out in the Fundamental Law, can only be achieved if the disposal of the national assets owned by the municipalities can be decided by the body of representatives, while respecting the value-for-money principle, and this task cannot be outsourced to a narrow circle of municipal leaders. I would like to note here that a few months ago, we tabled an amendment to this effect in connection with these press reports and extremely harmful processes, and this has been swept down by the Fidesz MEPs, both by one hand and by virtually no valid justification. But at the same time, I must add that the sense of justice in society also requires that everyone who has damaged public wealth should be responsible for their actions. Whoever stole from the country should be in prison. Get ready, because in a year's time, you'll be cleared, and I promise you there won't be any partiality. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-16-10	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-16-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We clearly agree that the wealth that constitutes the nation's wealth is a national property and, as such, it is necessary to have the highest protection. This is also guaranteed by the Fundamental Law, by the way. During the change of the Fundamental Law, we made sure that the municipal property was included in the national property. The local government is one of the greatest achievements of Hungarian democracy. Since 1990, the local government system has been operating continuously well, and I believe that the Hungarian authorities have done a great deal to ensure that citizens benefit from all the growth that the country's capacity, our joint work has made possible, in a direct way that serves its direct residence, its immediate needs, its immediate needs. In order to do so, it was necessary to preserve and further shape the independence of the municipalities, to give back their economic freedom to the municipalities, as the municipalities practically lost their freedom between 2004 and 2009 by being forced to capitalise on municipal assets, on the one hand, and on the other, to borrow. [[9.30]] And these borrowings did not appear primarily in the development, not only in the expansion and development of municipal assets, but also in many cases in the operation of the municipalities. This opinion is supported by a series of investigations by the State Court of Auditors from this period, where, according to the State Audit Office, between 2004 and 2009, some HUF 1600 billion of assets and/or funds were withdrawn from the local government sector by transferring tasks. The regularity of the operation of the municipalities raises questions and doubts on a regular basis. While, on the one hand, I think, it is completely natural that everyone wants the municipalities to be able to take independent decisions in accordance with the local government in all the powers which have been installed in the municipalities under the Fundamental Law or the municipal law, however, there is often a need for politicians to introduce a much stricter central or some kind of upper control system, often with conflicting interests or opinions. I think that the control system, which today serves the security of the management of the municipal system, is appropriate. The Fundamental Law ensures the rights of local governments, and controls by government agencies work. It must be said that during the 2000s, under the governance of the MSZP, there was a time when the municipalities had no legal supervision. Today there is legal oversight, and the State Audit Office also carries out this type of investigation into the target or general investigations of the municipalities, continuing the audit of the municipalities. What I think is natural is that, at times, local governments are subject to attacks of political orientation and political interest, and obviously, for your part, the pro-government self-governments, and the party political debates that we are otherwise engaged in on other economic or social policy issues, whether in parliament or outside the parliament, can be continued with the involvement of local governments. I believe, and I am sure, that any municipal decision that is to be taken has been examined by the voters; the voters will judge each decision in the next election and will choose according to each decision. After all, local government leaders and local government representatives can be elected directly to local government bodies by direct election, and mayors are also directly elected, so everything you listed, or accountability, if you like, happens naturally every four years, and every five years now in the municipalities, as citizens do. The same will obviously happen in Ozd, and citizens will also decide whether the local government there is legally and legally operating. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-16-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Gulyás Gergely, Vice-President of the House Fidesz, applied for a pre-meeting speech This week it is the European Parliament's turn! It's an address. I give you the floor, Mr Vice President, within a five-minute time frame.
u2017-05-16-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is probably also known to my fellow Members that tomorrow the European Parliament will again address Hungary, and in this context it will once again adopt the manyth resolution on Hungary. Before anyone attaches too much importance to this, let us reassure one another, that is to say, whoever feels any concern about it, that this is the manyth decision of the European Parliament and its significance is as much as it has been before. If you think about the completely untrue, air-borne statements of the Tavares report, if you think about the campaign against Hungary after the media law in 2010, in 2011, after the adoption of the Constitution, we had the opportunity to experience it again, and in 2013, after the fourth amendment of the Constitution, we also saw that we were not sure that only the European Parliament would meet, or possibly the UN Security Council. Only the European Parliament is still in session. There are two draft decisions on the table of the European Parliament. In many of these respects, we disagree with the decision of the European People's Party, but it remains on the ground in that it primarily calls on the Hungarian Government to negotiate constructively with the European Commission. After the Hungarian Government has repeatedly demonstrated since 2010 that it has tried and, in most cases, is able to find an agreement with the European Commission on even the most delicate issues, I do not think that this call alone has any particular additional content. We also believe that the Commission and not Parliament are guardians of the treaties, and that the Hungarian Government is therefore ready to continue negotiations with the European Commission on the controversial issues and, where necessary, to open negotiations with the European Commission. However, it must be seen that the European Parliament has repeatedly overstepped its powers harshly and unauthorizedly, taking a position on domestic affairs in Hungary, without any right, without being based on the basis of which any such authority has been delegated to the European Parliament. Whether it is a government or a parliamentary decision, whether it is good or bad, correct or wrong, it does not mean that it is automatically the European Parliament's responsibility to classify it, comment on it, and to comment on it in any way. Compared to this, we see the European Parliament acting as an internal political player in the Hungarian political debates. I would add that the opposition may be formally happy about this, or at least the Balliberal part of the opposition is formally pleased with this, but let us also add that in recent years it has been more used for the government than for the Balliberal opposition. It is therefore worth considering, in particular, the attitude of Hungarian Members of Parliament to the motion supported by communists, socialists, pro-greens and liberals, which asks the Commission to examine Article 7 against Hungary, and even threatens to initiate it. I would add that we all know that, since the procedure under Article 7 requires the support of the Heads of State and Government of all Member States, there is no chance that such a procedure will ever start against Hungary. On the other hand, in connection with the emptiness of threats against Hungary, which, in addition to the allegations of lies, happens many times against Hungary, we ask all Hungarian political elites, all Hungarian MEPs, to make it clear that there may be disputes between us in Hungarian internal politics, but there is no reason for the European Parliament to try so harshly to intervene in Hungarian internal politics. We have also seen in the last few weeks, and I think that there is serious damage to this credibility for the Commission, that if and if a Hungarian government or parliamentary decision concerns George Soros's interest, the full leadership of the European Commission will be careful to meet György Soros within a few days. We do not know what capacity György Soros was present at these meetings and why he was welcomed by the highest level of leadership of the European Commission, including the President of the European Commission. We also know that there are many people in Parliament who are willing to do favors to the American billionaire, but this does not change the fact that Hungarian domestic political debates must be fought here, in Parliament and in Hungary, not in the European Parliament. We therefore call on all Hungarian MEPs to reject all decisions of the European Parliament condemning Hungary in the interests of Hungary. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-16-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-16-15	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, many things are happening in these days, which fundamentally affect Hungary's room for manoeuvre on the one hand and the issues contained in the national consultation on the other. For example, last Wednesday the first trial was held in the so-called quota trial, the first round of a prolonged political struggle, so to speak. This lawsuit is crucial because we know that the European Commission wants to install 1300 immigrants in Hungary in the first place, so that it can then put in place a procedure without an upper limit. So the stakes are whether we will be able to decide who we live with in the future. The quota lawsuit may decide this year, but on behalf of the government, I can tell you that the Cabinet will act with all means against the launch of resettlement programmes. [[9.40]] Unfortunately, this does not stand for the opposition, as a few weeks ago a resolution in the European Parliament was voted in favour of resettlements, on the one hand, and on the other hand, it would facilitate family reunification and even repeal the legal border closure. The representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party and other left-wing MEPs voted in favour of this. It would be good if the left finally made a statement on why the resolution to strengthen quotas was voted on. I, myself, am asking this for a quarter of my time in Parliament, and I think it is not okay for the Hungarian Socialist Party to remove the right to consult and then to support quotas in Brussels. Meanwhile, the Government has also responded in writing to the European Commission's position on consultation. This was necessary because the Commission had previously published a resolution which is highly misleading and concealing fundamental facts. For example, the European Commission is very silent about the fact that, in addition to the installation of 1300 people, it would also launch a resettlement programme without an upper limit if it were up to it. It is silent that energy market liberalisation has brought about a 20 per cent increase in electricity prices across the European Union and a 25 per cent increase in gas prices. Or, for example, he also conceals the fact that in 2015 only three times they intervened in Hungarian taxation decisions. Dear House, This week, indeed, the European Parliament will be the main stage in the debates between Brussels and the Hungarian government, and the usual ideological witch hunt will be rekindled on the initiative of left-wing factions. There's gonna be everything you need for a witch hunt: tough words, ratings, rough adjectives and many, many false statements. I would argue with the Member that these things have a weight in the European Parliament, because they have a common goal, that Hungary should be forced to back down in strategic key areas, such as immigration. As always, the government is ahead of the debates, but it expects everyone to pay respect to Hungary and expects that no EU institution should go beyond its previously imposed powers at the expense of the Member States. Dear House, That is also the point of the national consultation. We would like no EU institution to take powers away from Hungary, especially without the consent of Hungarians, and certainly not in strategic areas. I think the Hungarians know that. It's no coincidence that yesterday's summaries show that the national consultation reached a record last week. Until yesterday, 1 million 390 thousand people gave their views, and it is now certain that this will be the most successful national consultation ever. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] On behalf of the Government, I would like to thank those who have already participated in the consultation and those who will give their views in the future. This stand is important because if we are not aware of the issues affecting Hungary's powers now, it will be very, very difficult to correct later. We regret, by the way, that we cannot count on opposition parties in this fight at all. We see that the internal power struggles and the government's attack on the basis of the government are still more important than standing up for Hungary. It's hard to get used to, but the government, for its part, will still do its job. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-16-16	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member Mrs Bernadett Szél, LMP Group also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congresswoman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2017-05-16-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, On the basis of my speech before the agenda, I would like to have two questions answered. One is that I still did not have the right answer to the fact that the businessman István Kocsis, who was familiar with the socialists, came from the bench of the accused to the box of Fidesz. I won't make it until you answer this question correctly. And the other one, I'd like to give a little thought to the magic with the deck money. What I see is that the government has made completely contradictory statements on funding over the past few years. We are in a situation where it is not possible to know exactly how this country will pay the price of this minimum $4,000 billion project. We also have Minister János Süli, without his wallet, who said at one of his press conferences that the Russian loan will definitely be called off, but it seems that he will be recouped with another loan. If we understand correctly, the Orbán government is preparing, as is the case with families that are very deprived, in emergency situations, and one loan is used to finance the other to somehow stay above the water. So is the Hungarian government planning to take this fast loan, or is it thinking about something else? There was Minister of National Economy Mihály Varga, who said that he did not think that the credit would be taken out because he did not think it was worth it, about half a day later, as Minister Süli said. He said that there was simply no loan that could offer good conditions for 20 years, like the Russian loan. He did not find such a loan, but his fellow minister, Peter Szijjártó, found it. He went to China and the loan was waiting for him, because we see that Hungary is taking on the Budapest-Belgrade railway line in the financing of the Chinese Eximbank, a USD-based credit facility with a 20-year loan rate of 2.5 per cent. Apparently, they're signing this grand contract in the fall. And we also know that this loan would cost the Hungarians about half as much as the Russian loan, so the thesis that this Russian loan would be the best business in the world has come to an end. [[It's constant noise.]] Otherwise, the trip of Viktor Orbán and his friends to China would be worth a special mass. Orbán talked there, participated in a forum there, sang there in China, the party went on, the trial went on, and we see that Hungary's Prime Minister - and I think that we should remember that here in Parliament - has virtually condemned the massacre in Tienanmen Square in 89, and now he has bowed his head to Chinese communism. So in 2017, we lived to see Viktor Orbán honoring the memory of Chinese communism. In addition to this symbolic gesture, the businessmen and the various leaders there were scrambling with money. We also see that this Budapest-Belgrád railway line was formed as Viktor Orbán thought it was. What you cannot explain to me, however, is why it is good for Hungary that we are helping Chinese dumping goods to land Corridor instead of developing the local economy in Hungary and giving back the production capacities to the Hungarian people who are in distress - they became unemployed first and left their own country - because the industry fell in Hungary. [[It's constant noise.]] It is difficult for me to understand this, especially in a construction that has been put under the roof that is paid by the Chinese, paid by Hungarians, built by the Chinese, and good for the Chinese. So I don't quite understand why, after the Paks tragedy, such a Chinese investment is needed now, unless there is a spooky resemblance between the two investments, which I can put in four points. Mr. President. I'll thank you very much if you discipline the Fidesz fraction a little, because I can't hear my own voice, they're screaming so much...
u2017-05-16-18	Go on, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-16-19	The viewers may think that I am raising my voice because I have this, but also because my fellow Members cannot behave...
u2017-05-16-20	Congresswoman, continue.
u2017-05-16-21	... and Parliamentary MPs. Thank you. Thank you. I'll continue, Mr. President. Therefore, there are four fundamental similarities between the two investments. [[It's constant noise.]] One is that Hungary does not need any of them. The other is that neither serves the interests of the Hungarian economy. The third is that Fidesz-KDNP can steal a hell of a lot of it. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] And the fourth is that our grandchildren will pay for these investments. One thing is certain, however, that the Prime Minister lied when he finished his joint press conference with Vladimir Putin. He said in February that he did not think it was possible to talk about the replacement of the credit facility. But Vladimir Putin made it clear that there was no exit from the loan. Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary of State! My question is what exactly Hungary and the Hungarian government intend to use. I would like to know exactly how Mr István Kocsis got into that box. And I'd like you to follow the voting attitude that we're about to pass out. [[He's showing me a document.]] to amend the basic law of the LMP, because it serves national sovereignty [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] to serve the Russian interest and the Chinese interest in this House. Thank you.
u2017-05-16-22	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Minister János Süli wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Minister. And please, my fellow Members, please take your seats. [[Dr. Bernadett Wind standing between the benches of the pro-government representatives, turning to the president: I'm listening! Miklós Soltész: He doesn't even care about the answer!]]
u2017-05-16-23	Thank you for your attention. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, [[Noise. Dr. Wind towards Bernadett.]] I can't usually answer the one with the back. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-16-24	Congresswoman, please take a seat. Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I'd like you to understand for a moment. [[9.50]] I request the Minister's watch to be restored, and feel free to begin, Minister, under calm circumstances.
u2017-05-16-25	Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, First of all, the Paks II project is a very good business for Hungary, for all Hungarian citizens, because it is cheap, reliable and climate friendly. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Should I listen to this?!]] will provide large quantities of electricity at high availability without emissions of harmful substances [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Did István Kocsis say that?]] For at least 60 years. I'll deal with this at the end when I get the chance. So the question of funding has been examined by the European Commission for nearly a year and a half and found it appropriate, so you can relax on this issue. If you have doubts about your use, I would like to make it clear that there is no contradiction between the statements you quoted, even if certain press products are trying to make you believe that, and they are trying to make a case even though things are okay. Let's take a look at what's going on here. Hungary concluded an interstate financing contract with Russia in 2014. According to this, the Russian party grants the Hungarian party a state loan of up to EUR 10 billion to finance the works, services and procurement of assets necessary for the design, construction and commissioning of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant's 5 and 6 power plants. The Russian loan will cover 80% of the cost of the loan, the remaining 20 percent of the costs will be paid by the Hungarian party. The loan is fixed rate. The loan condition and the rules of use are set out in Article XXIV. It was announced by law in the Hungarian-Russian interstate financing contract, which is public to everyone, so it is also available to you. If you are interested, I suggest you read the 2014 XXIV. Law. The Hungarian-Russian loan agreement provides special, favourable conditions, because it is available to build the blocks of the nuclear power plant. The total duration is 30 years and provides a fixed, favourable interest rate and a predictable financing environment for the economic implementation of the project. It is clear that our country has concluded this credit agreement in a completely different international financial financing environment than today, but at the same time the government has already thought about a possible change in the financial environment. An important feature of the loan is that the Hungarian party has the right to prepayment of any amount received under the loan at nominal value, without any additional fees. So whenever we think that funding from the budget or from other sources is even lower, we are free to use the means of early repayment. Once again, early repayment is possible at nominal value, without additional fees. This is what my fellow ministers, János Lázár and Mihály Varga, spoke about earlier, and I spoke about it myself. In response to a journalistic question, the Minister of National Economy spoke about the fact that, with the duration and the amount of the Russian loan, no other credit would be taken out instead of the Russian loan. Contrary to the interpellation, Minister Varga specifically pointed out in the interview you quoted that Hungary does not want to finance capacity maintenance in Paks under the credit line, using the possibility of early repayment. The Government Debt Management Centre will examine the project before each borrowing is called, which is the most optimal financing conditions, and will finance the project directly from the Hungarian budget or from a favourable external source, in the case of availability. The Hungarian government follows a clear strategy: it will always choose the most efficient solution; the Hungarian-Russian interstate loan provides a stable background, improving the government's position in the financial markets. Based on what has been said above, I would ask you to be informed in the future on the basis of professional content free of original commentaries, so that you can avoid similar misunderstandings. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-16-26	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We are now continuing our work by taking decisions on the agenda. Before we begin to take decisions, we must decide on a meeting matter. Dear Parliament, Yesterday, as rapporteur for the Legislative Committee, I spoke at T/14461. During the debate on bill No. In the event of opposition by the representatives of the Vice-President, the sitting may be held in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that I should be able to lead the sitting during the vote on the motion. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, allow me to respectfully welcome the representatives, leaders and experts of the forestry organizations in the gallery, who honoured the Hungarian Parliament with their presence in connection with the vote on the forest law. We welcome them. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with the resolutions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank will be in line. on the establishment and functioning of the Statute of the Governing Council of the Bank of Beijing of 29 June 2015 and of the T/15360 on the publication of the decision of the Governing Council of the AIB setting out the terms of membership. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15360. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 142 votes to one, with 28 abstentions. It follows that T/15069 on the amendment of certain laws concerning the administration of foreign affairs and other laws relating to the provision of permanent external service will be adopted. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15069/6. T/15069/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Tibor Bana. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 114 against and 7 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15069/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 116 votes in favour, 1 against and 57 abstentions. [[10.00]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15069/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 116 votes to one, with 57 abstentions. The 2016 CLV on official statistics follows a series of laws. T/15070. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15070/7. and a summary report by T/15070/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15070/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 115 votes to two, with 55 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15070/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 116 votes to 29, with 29 abstentions. It follows the T/15063 on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15063/4. Number T/15063/5 and its summary meaning T/15063/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15063/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 139 votes in favour, no votes against, with 35 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/150636. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 145 votes to 25, with four abstentions. It follows the T/15064 on the implementation of the financial and financial restrictive measures imposed by the European Union and the United Nations Security Council. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15064/5. T/15064/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by László Szakács and Attila Mesterházy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 115 against and without abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15064/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 144 votes in favour, not by vote, with 29 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15064/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 147 votes to 24, with 4 abstentions. The 2014 XXII on advertising tax follows a series of steps. T/14684. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/14684/6. T/14684/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/14684/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 117 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/14684/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 117 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstentions. It follows from the 2011 CCIX on water utility services. T/15057 amending Act T/15057 Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15057/6. T/15057/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Benedek and Mr Ikotity. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The LMP Group proposed that Amendment 2 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Benedek and Mr Ikotity. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. (Vote.) The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 117 against and without abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15057/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 123 votes to 28, with 24 abstentions. Dear Parliament, I declare that the rapporteur has initiated in writing to postpone the final vote. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to explain the reasons for his initiative. [[Zsolt Szabó says no.]] The author indicates that he does not wish to justify the decision. Dear Parliament, House rules are 51. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, Parliament decides to postpone the final vote without debate. I ask you, on the basis of your initiative, will T/15057 be postponed. Final vote of bill No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Parliament shall decide to postpone the final vote on the basis of paragraph 1 of this Article without debate. I ask you, on the basis of your initiative, will T/15057 be postponed. Final vote of bill No 1. Please vote. (Vote.) The final vote was postponed by 170 votes in favour, 2 against and 1 abstention. The 2010 CXVII report on promoting the use of renewable energy for transport and reducing greenhouse gas emissions from energy used in transport follows. T/1506. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/150675. and the summary report by T/15067/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15067/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 117 votes to 25, with 33 abstentions. [[10.10]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15067/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 116 votes to 25, with 33 abstentions. Following is T/15068 on the amendment of Act C of 2003 on electronic communications. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15068/5. T/15068/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15068/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 145 votes to 30, without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15068/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 146 votes in favour, 28 against and without abstentions. It follows from the Act V of 2006 on company disclosure, court proceedings and winding-up and from CXL of 2007 on the cross-border merger of capital companies. T/15052 amending Act T/1505 concerning the system for the interconnection of European business registers. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1505/5. and the summary report by T/150526. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1505/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 146 votes in favour, no votes against, with 28 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1505/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 146 votes in favour, 1 against and 28 abstentions. It follows the 2011 XLIX on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. Act T/1506 on the amendment of Act T/1506 and of certain related laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15066/7. T/15066/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 114 against and without abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15066/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 122 votes to 26, with 27 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15066/10. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 121 votes to 24, with 27 abstentions. The T/15065 amending certain laws relating to the entry into force of the General Administrative Rules Act and the Administrative Rules Act follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15065/7. and a summary report by T/15065/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/150657. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 117 votes to 29, with 29 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/150659. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 117 votes in favour, 28 against and 30 abstentions. Next up is the T/15358 on the public-credit register of general authorisations for court proceedings and non-court proceedings. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/15358 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 146 votes in favour, 3 against and 24 abstentions. Next up is the XXXVII of 2009 on forest, forest protection and forestry. T/14461 on the amendment of law and other related laws Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/14461/32. T/14461/33. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 12, 13 and 15 and Jobbik Group Nos 18, 20 and 21. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 12 is proposed by Mr Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 35 votes in favour, 115 against and 24 abstentions. Amendment 13 is proposed by Mr Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 34 votes in favour, 115 against and 25 abstentions. Amendment 15 is proposed by Mr Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 34 votes in favour, 115 against and 25 abstentions. Amendment No 18 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 114 against and without abstentions. [[10.20]] Amendment 20 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 115 against and without abstentions. Amendment 21 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 116 against and without abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/14461/32. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 145 votes to 29, with 1 abstention. In view of the fact that the Parliament has just adopted the summary amendment, the parts of the submitted bill requiring a qualified majority have been abandoned, and therefore, in the final vote, we will decide according to the rules of the simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/14461/35. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] It follows that T/15344 on the amendment of individual laws in relation to defence issues. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15344.5. and its summary report is T/15344/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/1534/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 138 votes to 27, with six abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1534/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday the Parliament has already negotiated this. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled T/144990 by the representatives of Bernadett Szél and Ákos Hadházy, the seventh amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 55 votes in favour, 114 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with disciplinary decisions. Szabó Szabolcs follows the line H/15643 on the reduction of the due fee of a Member of Parliament. Decision No 1 on a proposal for a decision. I would like to inform you that Mr. Speaker of the Parliament Act 51/A. According to paragraph 1 of Article 13 of the Act of Accession of the Republic of Croatia, the Court of Justice of the European Union shall have jurisdiction to rule on the application of Article 13 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Acting under the authority of Section 6 of the Act, Szabó ordered a reduction in the due fees of independent representatives. The representative asked the immunity committee to repeal the decision, but the committee did not allow it to do so. Next, the Act on Parliament 51/A. Pursuant to Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure, the Member has requested that the Parliament repeal the decision of the Speaker. In view of this, the house rules are 148. Under paragraph 2 of Section H/15643, Mr Speaker submitted a proposal for a resolution. the same content as the previous decision to reduce the Member's due fee. I'll call him. note that the proposal for a decision, the related decision of the Speaker, the relevant request by its representatives and the decision of the Committee on immunity were made available on the website. Dear Parliament, In accordance with the provisions of the house rules, no proposal or Commission report may be submitted to amend the proposal for a decision. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if the Speaker's decision is annulled by the Parliament, the Member's due fees will not be reduced, the Parliament Act 51/A. The proceedings brought against him pursuant to paragraph 1 of Section 1 shall be terminated. The Speaker's decision to reduce the fee is decided by the Parliament without discussion. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the decision of the Speaker to reduce the due fee of Szabó Szabolcs is maintained by H/15643. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament held the President's decision in force by 115 votes in favour, 56 against and without abstentions. I would ask Mr István Tiba to explain the text of the adopted decision.
u2017-05-16-27	The Parliament is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Act - hereinafter referred to as "Ogytv." - 51/A. Acting under the authority of Szabó Szabolcs, Parliamentary Representative of Ogytv. 51/A. On the basis of the request made by the President of the National Assembly pursuant to paragraph 9 of Section OE-40/374-1/2017. No. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr Szabó Szabolcs, Member of Parliament, acting under the authority of Mr Ogytv. 51/A. On the basis of the request made by the President of the National Assembly pursuant to paragraph 9 of Section OE-40/374-1/2017. (Noise. - The president's ringing. , Szabolcs Szabó maintains his decision to reduce his due fee, thereby reducing the due fee of Szabó Szabolcs MP by HUF 249 290.
u2017-05-16-28	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] [[10.30]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. [[Noise.]] Once again, with respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill amending certain tax laws and other related laws until closure. Government referral T/15428. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the general debate on this proposal within a five-hour time frame. I would like to ask Mr. István Tiba to explain the time frame.
u2017-05-16-29	Dear Parliament, The time frame is divided into 103 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 56 minutes for the MSZP Group, 47 minutes for the KDNP Group, 51 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 31 minutes for the LMP Group and 12 minutes for the independent Members.
u2017-05-16-30	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute timeframe.
u2017-05-16-31	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, On 2 May, the government submitted to Parliament a bill amending certain tax laws and other related laws. The bill contains a number of measures concerning individuals and farmers to reduce their tax burden, to whiten the economy, to improve competitiveness, and to reduce and simplify bureaucracy and administration in the application of law. Dear House, Allow me to explain some of the specific content of the bill. Public liability rules for the exploitation of real estate are changing. As of 1 January 2018, the payment of a 14 per cent health contribution from the lease of the property, which exceeds HUF 1 million, will be terminated. This measure reduces not only the payment obligation of individuals, but also the whitening of the rental market, as it is less and less worth concealing the income from the lease. They will also be able to tax their property as accommodation under more favourable rules. From 2018 the parties can opt for taxation under the rules of flat-rate taxation, i.e. by paying a tax of HUF 38 400 per room per year. These measures are expected to have a positive impact on the development of rent rates and on the tax ethic of landlords and accommodation providers. In addition, the reloading of unfilled medical practices can be facilitated by the new rule of not having to pay personal income tax if it is sold by an individual acquiring his practice as an original rightholder. If the seller subsequently received the practice for consideration, he may reduce his sales income as time goes by, as the income from the sale of the property can be determined, and in the case of sales in the fifth year after the acquisition, he will no longer have to pay a tax. In order to increase competitiveness, the daily allowance rules for freight transport workers are changing. Following the adoption of the bill, not only car drivers, freight attendants, but also the employees of the companies carrying their own goods will be able to deduct from their daily allowance the allowance which is deemed to be exempt. This represents HUF 3000 per day for domestic missions and HUF 60 per day for foreign missions. Also, the conditions for mobility and housing aid which the employer is exempt from tax are amended as measures to improve competitiveness. From 2018, the rate of support expressed as a percentage of the minimum wage in the first two years of employment will now be 60 per cent instead of 40 per cent, in the next 24 months, which was 25 per cent, now 40 per cent, and in the following 12 months the 15% discount will now increase to 20 per cent. The exemption will also apply to fixed-term employment and temporary agency employment. There will also be no grounds for refusal if the worker has, or has owned, housing at the place of work or at the specified close-up, at the time the aid is granted, or during the preceding 12 months, but the apartment is entitled to benefit or the ownership share does not exceed 50 per cent. Dear Parliament, The bill also initiates clarification in the legislation governing the specific tax of taxpayers. In the future, he will not be a full-time taxpayer, a private person who studies as a full-time student and pursues an entrepreneurial activity in addition to his studies, so he can fulfil his public liability by paying a lower tax rate of HUF 25 000. Furthermore, it will not automatically cease to be a taxable person of a small company that has a tax debt. In the event that you pay your debt until the decision to terminate the taxable person has become final, you will be able to continue your activities as a taxpayer under the same conditions. Dear Parliament, The proposed amendment to the corporate tax law provides for the introduction of several new advantages and simplifications which, in addition to the 9 per cent single corporate tax rate, are expected to contribute to a significant further increase in competitiveness. [[10.40]] These are: a tax base discount will be available for employee rentals; in line with the Jedlik Ányos plan, companies can reduce their tax base by the cost of electric filling stations; the tax-free minimum value limit of 10 per cent for shares acquired from 2018 will be abolished; regulated real estate investment companies will also be allowed to apply IFRSs for tax purposes. As an administrative simplification, the conditions for starting-up tax base relief for the employment of researchers and developers will be abolished. The proposal also addresses the legal application issues in practice for IFRS taxpayers. With the cost of electric charging stations, the income tax base of energy suppliers can also be reduced if the taxpayer does not benefit from this benefit under corporation tax. In order to further encourage the promotion of visual team sports, the corporate tax benefit can be deducted from the bank tax in the future in order only to support amateur organisations and replacement education in the coming period. In the simplified business tax, a necessary amendment to the rules of the Accounting Act on the clearance of approved dividends will be made in order to avoid double taxation of dividends. With regard to the small company tax, the proposal clarifies the period for which a report is to be drawn up, deposited and published. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the amendment of the Local Tax Act is to increase investor confidence, reduce tax administration and adapt the local industrialisation tax base rules to changing IFRSs. In order to promote investor confidence and legal certainty, the local tax law changes to the fact that if the municipality introduces a lower tax rate for a fixed period than the statutory tax ceiling, which of course will not be obliged to do so, it will not be able to withdraw it in any case during the first two calendar years of the determined period, and in the period between the end of the first two years of the determined period and the end of the fixed period, it would be possible to increase the rate set in this way only exceptionally. By amending the local tax law, the bill creates the legal institution of the so-called advanced tax. In this context, some taxable persons may, according to their choice, fulfil their local tax payment obligation earlier by not qualifying as overpayment, i.e. the taxpayer would not be able to ask for it back, it would only be eligible for its future tax liability. In order to reduce the tax administration of taxpayers, according to the bill, it is not necessary to report the data reported to the corporate court to the local government tax authority in the event of the establishment of a company, because they are sent directly by the State tax authority to these municipalities. Further administrative simplification is that as of 1 November 2017, a declaration to supplement the business tax advance will also be submitted electronically to the municipal tax authority via the State tax authority. The local tax law will start with the standardization of the international accounting standard for 18 revenue when defining the local industrialisation tax fund for managers under IFRSs. Dear Parliament, In the future, by amending the tax law, a private person may also apply the tax exemption according to which the tax base is not the difference in the value of the turnover of the apartment acquired by the exchange, but the turnover of two apartments, who does not exchange apartments with private owners, but, for example, with the municipality. In order to reduce tax administration and tax administration, the bill expands the scope of tax-free acquisitions that taxpayers do not have to report to the State tax authority, or which tax-free acquisitions do not require a payment order from the State tax authority, such as the tax-free acquisition of land use under the Land Traffic Act. In particular, it is intended to reduce the administrative burden of the State tax authority by the change that, when enforcing the return transfer tax exemption for land acquisition, it is not always necessary to verify in advance whether the acquirer is a farmer. Dear House, The bill further expands the range of foods for which a reduced VAT rate applies, taking into account the possibilities given by the budgetary margin, so that next year the rate on fish will be reduced from 27 per cent to 5 per cent. Furthermore, in order to increase the digital economy and to provide consumers with wider access to the Internet, the VAT rate for internet access continues to be reduced, as a result of which next year this service will only be taxed at a VAT rate of 5%. As a result of these VAT measures, the government leaves around HUF 24-27 billion in the economy and consumers. In order to facilitate the development of domestic small-scale brewing and to stimulate competition between small-scale breweries, the annual production limit of small-scale brewers with reduced excise duty rates, thus providing a 50 per cent reduction in excise duty, will increase from the current 8 000 hectolitres to 200 000 hectolitres from 1 July 2017, which will allow the breweries concerned to expand their production in a larger long-term perspective. Dear House, The system of taxation sets out the rules governing the tax procedure. In recent years, we have constantly sought to reduce the administrative burden on taxpayers, which has also led to economic development. In addition, the amendments to the procedure set out in the current bill are intended to introduce rules to promote the whitening of the economy and to clarify and clarify existing rules in order to facilitate easier application of the law. With the help of taxpayers, 15 days will be available in the future instead of 8 days to submit a request for relief in connection with the tax registration procedure. As a measure to facilitate the application of the law, it is also established, in line with the rules in force until 31 December 2015, that the tax authority suspends its control procedure if the court in administrative matters requires the authority to take a new procedure and has submitted a request for revision or review of that court decision. Dear Parliament, As an economic whitening measure, notification is also provided for users of the registered office before and since 1 January 2017. In addition, the publication list on the National Tax and Customs Office's website will be added, as a result of which data on those who do not fulfil their VAT return obligation for more than two reporting periods will be available on the website, thus helping taxpayers to find out about their economic relations. In the future, the Hungarian Treasury will also be entitled to request from the state tax authority data reporting if necessary to establish and pay the health insurance cash benefits. In order to reduce tax avoidance practices, the legal institution of the tax guarantee is introduced, the essence of which is that the taxpayer deemed to be risky under the conditions laid down in the tax registration procedure is required by a decision of the tax authority to make a payment or to provide a bank guarantee, at its choice, to the deposit account of the State tax and customs authorities. [[10.50]] The value of the amount corresponding to the tax debt giving rise to the payment of the tax guarantee. The tax security shall be for a period of 12 months at the date of expiry of which the taxpayer shall receive the amount paid back, provided that the State tax and customs authorities have not decided by decision on its full or partial use. One year after the decision has become effective, the amendment of the prohibition of seriousisation is also a more effective action against tax avoidance practices, but for reasons of guarantee, an objective period of 18 months will be laid down, beyond which the decision will not be subject to modification by the taxpayer. Dear House, The amendment to the National Tax and Customs Authority Status Act also includes addressing some of the problems encountered in the application of the law and the necessary changes on the basis of the legislative change. The law is also complemented by provisions under which these persons can carry out security tasks more effectively in the facilities guarded by financial officers belonging to the personnel of the NAV. Honourable Members, Amendments to international customs legislation will be introduced to reduce administrative burdens. In the light of this, it is determined how the rights and obligations of the clients concerned will be developed in the course of the ex post verification, in what capacity the person is involved in the verification. Pursuant to Union legislation, the customs authorities should verify the cash flows in excess of EUR 10 000 entering and leaving the territory of the European Union. As regards the implementation of this task, it was necessary to lay down the legal basis for the procedural acts to be applied by the customs authorities in the relevant domestic law on the basis of the experience of the law enforcement, and it was therefore established that in such cases the provisions of the Act on General Rules of Administrative Procedure and Service apply. In addition, the additional provisions necessary for the verification were laid down as the obligation on the part of the data subject to submit a declaration on the intended use of cash or to verify certain official acts, such as personal luggage or means of transport, which may be carried out under customs control. Dear Parliament, The proposed amendment to the Accounting Act for cooperative credit institutions and other credit institutions involved in the integration of cooperative credit institutions postpones the mandatory application of international financial reporting standards and IFRSs for another year. The delay from 2018 to 19 is justified by significant organisational changes in the sector. In addition, the bill also clarifies the provisions on clearing derivatives transactions on the basis of practical needs. Dear House, A regulated real estate investment company can be established in Hungary since 2011, but no regulated real estate investment company has been established so far. Keeping the essential elements of the original regulation, the bill clarifies the provisions which prevent the establishment and wider spread of regulated real estate investment companies and complements the provisions currently in force, with specific provisions on regulated real estate investment companies which prepare IFRS accounts and consolidated annual accounts. The bill also proposes to address EU competition concerns. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-16-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by its representatives, the first of which will be held by keynote speakers, in a 20-20-minute time frame for each group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-16-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The tax package to be negotiated at the same time as the budget is the most important economic bill each year, so I think that particular attention should be paid to this debate. The motion before you contains a number of changes that reduce the burden of Hungarian taxpayers, ease administrative obligations and make the Hungarian tax system more efficient. Dear House, The second Orbán government has radically transformed the tax system in many respects since 2010, setting a new direction for Hungarian tax policy. The tax burden on labour has been reduced, and we have introduced a tax relief scheme to help families, which has now become Europe's most generous tax support system. We have made the personal income tax system one-key, which has reduced the burden on labour. The level of personal income tax fell to 15 percent in 2016, making it competitive at European level. Thanks to this measure, the annual income of an average family increased by more than HUF 56,000 and by HUF 25,000 for two parents earning the minimum wage. Thanks to family tax incentives, over the past year some 1 million people have lost their taxes, including over 300,000 people have not had to pay taxes at all. I, too, who raise four children, receive a discount system that does not require personal income tax. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's why you did all this. I wouldn't be so proud of that.]] Obviously, these subsidies can be used to raise children. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Fidesz considered the reduction of labour taxes as its primary task. Thanks to the continuously improving performance of the economy, it was possible to target VAT reductions in the area of essential needs and food products. The 5% VAT rate was introduced for the first time in 2014 in the case of live and half-carcases and then decreased to 5 per cent in the case of the sale of cattle, sheep and goats from 1 January 2015. The benefit of reducing VAT was not only that the public had cheaper access to these products, but that the illegal black market had ceased, the imports that had previously made the competitiveness of Hungarian goods impossible. Last year we moved on this road and reduced VAT on poultrymeat, eggs and fresh milk to 5%. Last year's result is that the internet service decreased to 18 percent, as well as the VAT on restaurant meals, leaving Hungarians with at least 55 billion HUF more money. The government reduced the VAT on housing sales from 27 per cent to 5 per cent from 1 January 2016, thus helping Hungarian families to get their own homes. In this joint venture, together with the public tax reduction and the public undertaking, the whole housing market has been boosted at such a level that the construction sector has visible revenue and surplus profits, as well as significant progress in employment. These measures alone represent a huge step forward in relation to the tax policy of socialist governments, which was based on the principle of the, let it go, but somehow they always ended up promising that, although people would be better, people would end up getting worse, but they had to pay more and more taxes, and they had to live in increasingly difficult living conditions. We think that the policy of tax reduction is the only one that results in the improvements to Hungarian people's living conditions in the short term, and that is why we would like to move forward on this path. In 2018, we will continue with the system of tax reductions and reductions. Next year, the VAT rate for fish is reduced from 27 percent to 5 percent, and the fee for internet access services is reduced from 18 percent to 5 percent. With these two measures, we will add new elements to the scope of the basic food covered by the reduced rate and make the possibility of cheap internet access more accessible to a wider consumer. Let us do this by, for example, Brussels has already indicated that it has concerns about reducing the VAT on the Internet. Nevertheless, the government, as well as the Fidesz and KDNP factions are determined to defend these measures against Brussels; we are not going to allow Brussels simply to override the positive parliamentary decisions for the Hungarian people. Ladies and gentlemen, As a follow-up to the tax reduction policy, income from the transfer of medical practice acquired by the right to the right to the right to the right to the personal income tax will once again become tax-free. [[11.00]] The rule on the daily subsistence allowance for drivers and goods sellers employed by companies carrying out wage transport for a fee is also extended to those carrying out own-account transport activities. The conditions for a mobility housing allowance which the employer is exempt from tax will also become more favourable, with an increase in the level of support in each period. In order to support young people's studies, a number of items will be added to the scope of tax-free scholarships, including scholarships to be paid to nursing students under a scholarship programme to promote career choice and other benefits to apprenticeship pupils provided by the practical training organisation. Dear House, For the purpose of whitening the income from the rent, the payment of a 14 per cent health contribution on the income from the lease of more than HUF 1 million per year will be terminated as from 1 January 2018. In order to improve the living conditions of those working far away from home, a tax benefit will be available next year for workers' rentals. We are confident that mobility, labour mobility can accelerate, and in areas where job creation is still a problem and where unemployment is still an institution, compared with many more areas of the country, healthy migration can take place within the country, allowing more workers to get to work in more developed regions. Dear House, In addition, the 50 percent small-scale brewery is eligible for excise duty relief. As early as this year, independent breweries producing no more than 200,000 hectolitres of beer per year can benefit from a discount. In order to further improve the financial opportunities of sports clubs, the tax reduction for the promotion of visual team sports will be possible from the bank tax in the following year in support of amateur sports organisations and re-education. Of course, if the bank tax reduction is applied, the taxpayer is not entitled to an additional tax advantage. Ladies and gentlemen, The legislative package before us contains a number of forward-looking changes in the area of the municipal tax system, which serve the interests of both taxpayers and municipalities. First of all, I would like to highlight the introduction of a legal institution for the tax brought forward. The introduction of the new legislation allows certain taxable persons to fulfil their tax obligations earlier in their choice, so that the amount received can be used legally by the municipality as soon as the payment has been made. The taxpayer is free to decide on the payment of the tax brought forward and will not be an explicit obligation to anyone. This is an option that taxpayers will be able to help their own local government operate. The second positive change provides guarantees to businesses that the favourable tax environment applied by individual municipalities will be maintained in the long term. According to the amendments contained in the submission, in the event that the municipality has introduced a tax for a fixed period, it cannot in any case change its level to the disadvantage of the taxpayer during the first two calendar years of the period. Therefore, it is not possible for a local government to change, for example, its mid- or long-term tax relief scheme in order to attract larger taxpayers. As a third element, the amendment provides for the possibility for taxpayers to fulfil their local industrialisation tax return obligation with the assistance of the State tax authority. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal includes simplifications not only in the area of taxes, but also in the area of tax payments, and, as promised, facilitations. From the first day of the following year, a private person who has not exchanged apartments with a private owner may also apply a tax reduction on house replacements. All first instance administrative procedures will be free of charge, initiated by the client on grounds of unlawful, incorrect or failed official decisions. A copy of not only paper-based but also electronically submitted tax returns will be free of charge. The scope of tax-free acquisitions that taxpayers do not have to report to the State tax authority or in which the State tax authority does not have to issue a payment order is further expanded. In the area of customs procedures, the motion also introduces the possibility of electronic submission in the case of authorisation for customs representation, thereby facilitating further simplification of the already highly electronic procedure and reducing administrative burdens. The proposal also contains a number of minor but important provisions to help improve tax discipline and further reduce the black and grey economy. In the case of a public limited company, a positive tax performance for the reference year will also be required for a reliable taxpayer rating. The motion imposes a requirement to notify domestic companies of the opening of foreign bank accounts or of the use of bank accounts. The late, incorrect or false fulfilment or failure to comply with the notification obligation will result in the imposition of a default penalty. In the future, not only will the list of those who pay their taxes incompletely, who are in default or who are being implemented, but data on those who fail to comply with their VAT returns will also be published on the NAV website. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, allow me to remind everyone of the exact contrast between what has been said so far and the tax policy of the socialist governments before 2010. When the left was governed in Hungary, he took every opportunity to represent the interests of multinational companies, to seek their favor, to increase the burden of Hungarian people and domestic businesses, for their benefit. In the second year of their governance, corporate tax rates were raised, and in 2005, tax relief for families with multiple children was abolished or reduced. If you read the recently published program on the left, it clearly shows that if you reclaimed the country's leadership, you would continue right where you left off. Three things can be read from this programme: a tax increase, a tax increase and a tax increase. And that not only comes from the public program, but we know that the left is ready to deceive its constituents at any time. Hungarian people must have learned that well. When the Socialists first reduced VAT in 2006, let's remember that, as an election catch, VAT was reduced at the beginning of the year, and then, which was not the case in modern Hungarian history, in September it was raised back after the elections. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You raised it further.]] I see that my fellow MSZP Members do not like it, but please allow me to confront you with the policy that you have done here in this Parliament between 2002 and 2010. We Hungarian citizens had to suffer through this period. Socialist representatives, including László Botka, have also supported every tax increase here, in this Hungarian Parliament, the abolition of family tax relief and home creation benefits, the increase in personal income tax, the increase in VAT on food, and the tax increases on Hungarian businesses. So with the socialists, my fellow Members, the targets for tax increases have always been families with children living on wages and salaries and domestic businesses. Dear House, In contrast, the Fidesz Group continues to support the policy of tax reduction and the reduction of contributions, and we consider the tax package that the government has submitted to the Hungarian Parliament to be particularly good. That is why we ask all our fellow Members to support this proposal, because thanks to this tax package, all Hungarian citizens can move forward again, and every Hungarian family will live better next year. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-16-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Sándor Burány. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-16-35	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Allow me to thank Mr Erik Bánki for presenting, in a distorted way, the programme of our candidate for Prime Minister László Botka. At the same time, allow me to expose the lies in your comment, which are abundant in your comments. Let's start with the simpler things with the support of multinational companies. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, how dare you say that you are against multinational companies, and we supported them when just a few months ago you brought in the tax amendment that reduced the corporate tax of the largest multinational companies by about 10 percentage points, while the same tax burden on small businesses was reduced by just one percentage point? ! What if it's not support for multinational companies? Your minister admitted that it left some 140 billion forints in the largest Hungarian companies, while it did not substantially reduce the tax burden on small businesses. That's the first thing. [[11.10]] The other lie in your comment was that when socialist governments came, they raised income tax, as opposed to you, who reduced it. He said the income tax was reduced to 16 percent. I would like to tell my fellow Member that, in the case of minimum wage, this is simply a lie. The minimum wage tax was not reduced to 16 per cent, but increased by 16 per cent, because my fellow Member has a short memory, which is why I am helping: during socialist governments, he never charged the minimum wage with personal income tax, and under the government of Fidesz he always charged the minimum wage. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's right.]] So much for reducing the tax burden. The tax burden is indeed reduced - the richest. They increase the tax burden on low-income earners. That's what they did all the time. Orbán made a proposal in the framework of one of Viktor Orbán's first packages of programmes, and you nodded on this path to stop paying taxes on extra goods such as helicopters, yachts - perhaps my fellow Member - on which the Socialist Government imposed taxes - and you immediately stopped them from crying so that the rich people wouldn't have to pay taxes on the yacht, so that they wouldn't have to pay taxes on the helicopter. It is true that the latter question has been resolved wisely, as we know, by the wives of the congressmen who have been doing this in barter lately. My fellow Member, I wouldn't be proud of that if I were you. It is also a lie, when you claim that the budget and the tax package that is linked to it are the budgets of those who work for them. Well, the opposite is true. If you look at the changes, while not reducing the tax on labour-related income, you reduce your non-work-related income: for example, the health contribution of renters; and the same happened a few months ago when interest income taxes were reduced from 21% to 15 percent. Before my words are misinterpreted, it is no problem to reduce taxes on passive income, but the problem is that the wages of active workers and does not reduce its contribution burden. And it's definitely a lie that they have the nerve to say that it's a budget for people who work. Since when does interest income belong to these incomes? Or is it a health contribution for rented apartments? If you wanted to cut the costs and taxes of people living in work, you'd be supporting people who rent the apartment, you know? And not the people who rent the apartments! We have nothing against those who already have enough money to give out their apartment, because they have some; it is that those who do not have an apartment do not have enough income to rent an apartment, Congressman, and you do not support it, but these people, the people who live on the minimum wage, have raised their taxes from zero to 16 percent, and from this they have graciously released 1 percent. Well, well, that's all, but it's not about supporting people from work. I would like to say, my fellow Member, that everything I say is supported by international data. You believe that you have made such an amazing tax reduction in personal income tax. I would like to say that Hungary is one of the most taxing countries in Europe in terms of personal income tax and wage tax and tax charges, particularly among OECD countries. The so-called tax wedge, i.e. when the income tax payable on the average wage is added together and the wage contributions, Hungary is beating in this respect. More taxes than Hungary should be paid in this respect only in Germany and Belgium. So Hungary is not the country of low taxpayers, but one of the highest taxing countries in terms of wages. I'll tell you one more time, we're on a roll here. What we'd like to see is that we're the hosts in this, by the way. It would be a good idea to be a driver and not a champion, Congressman. By the way, in order to add to all this, I have already talked about the brazen and unprecedented taxation of the minimum wage. This is unprecedented throughout Europe! The tax and contribution burden on the minimum wage is the highest in the Union, Member. They're not the lowest, they're not the second lowest, they're the tallest, Congressman. That's how you support people with wages and salaries. I would like to say that, of course, these data refer to the childless. Congressman mentioned that he has four children, and how well it is for him to receive tax benefits. I understand, Congressman, that your hand is leaning towards you, and you are happy to support the tax policy that reduces the burden on you, but it reduces the burden on your age. [[Erik Bánki intervenes.]] But what about the 40th grade, the 50th grade? [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Who, if any, has the same four children, has just already flown out? Why don't you want to reduce the burden on them? And by the way, it's also a lie that we didn't support the families. You forget, Mr President, that when the family tax allowance was actually abolished, we have doubled the family allowance in parallel, so that we have achieved that we have not increased or even reduced the burden on working families with incomes, but have also helped the situation of those who do not have income; unlike you, who, by the way, have left the family allowance unchanged for years, and those families where there is no income from work are therefore left on the side of the road. [[Erik Bánki: We give people jobs! Zoltán Grimlock: Public work!]] Once again, Mr President, we should, first and foremost, reduce the tax on low-income earners as the MSZP's proposals have repeatedly advocated, year after year, and otherwise, as included in László Botka's programme. Because we do need to reverse this whole trend that you introduced after 2010. Highest earners and even luxuries need to reduce their taxes It is necessary to tax the income over HUF 1 million, and to tax the assets over HUF 100 million, even if it is unpleasant for you, and it is necessary to tax those with more than 100 hectares of land, however uncomfortable it is to affect your oligarchs after the recent years of the attack on the land. Dear House, I would also like to say that, in addition to what I have said, this package of laws, this tax package actually benefits the rich as well as their previous proposals. Taxed wages versus half-taxed interest and rent income, restaurant VAT reduction versus 27% food VAT, while the Fidesz government opens new and new loopholes in tax incentives that are so-called "public money" to the rise, because my fellow Member Erik Bánki was a pioneer in creating this concept, so I thank you personally for this occasion. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Justice must be done, and a tax package must be placed on the table of this House, which will break with the practice that has been done. It does not give the most to those who have the most, not to those who are in the best position in the country, but to those who are in the opposite position. They reduce the burden on those who are in the worst situation and support low earners from work in particular, in order to finally achieve it in Hungary, as in the best Western European countries, so that they can make a living on the minimum wage. The net minimum wage is currently impossible in Hungary, and in this respect you have drastically increased the gross minimum wage in recent years, the net minimum wage that the workers are bringing home is still lower than the official minimum of living. I would like to remind this House and my fellow Members that the KSH, though not in its main place, has, however, been obliged to report that some 5,000 convenience stores have ceased in the past. Here, too, it was promised when the closing of the shop on Sunday was ordered, and then, on the proposal of the MSZP, it was withdrawn, on its initiative, that it would punish multinationals and support small shops. In fact, it was the other way around because they forgot to talk about the fact that the convenience stores were put at a disadvantage by several measures. There were two such measures: one is that the burden of introducing cash registers was imposed on small shops and the other is an increase in the gross amount of the minimum wage. Even though we have kept telling you that the net minimum wage needs to be increased, and this could not only be achieved by raising gross wages, but also by reducing taxes, these proposals have been found to be deaf to you. Therefore, in Hungary today, a situation has emerged, the essence of which is that what the worker brings home from the minimum wage is not enough for a living, and gross wages and contributions are unbearably high for a small entrepreneur. As a result, many small businesses have shut down the store, one visible sign of this is that about 5,000 of the convenience stores that sell mainly industrial goods and food have ceased in the past. This is the direct consequence of your policy. Dear House, You have to sit on the other side of the horse. It is not necessary to give the most where it is, but to relieve the burdens of those who are already in a difficult situation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[11.20]]
u2017-05-16-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr János Harghitai. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-16-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, When we discuss the final tax package of this election cycle, we naturally have the opportunity to look back on the tax policies of two parliamentary cycles. This was also done by the two leading speakers, Erik Bánki and Sándor Burány, who came to quite different conclusions, and that is not interesting, it is natural, their meeting point determines their thinking. My lucky position is that I can always speak after Congressman Burány. Listening to him, I might have to think about all the things I was thinking about, because after hearing him, I'm simply wondering if he was free to touch the tax policy that that successful socialist government was doing two cycles ago, because if I'm listening to him, it was a mistake for us in the first place. A Member defends the tax policy that they were pursuing at the time, which has completely bankrupted this country, achieving very successful, unprecedented successes, obviously with the tax policy, the economic policy that served that government. In 2008, this country knelt because this government kneeled it down. The global economic crisis has hit us in a situation where the government has come close to bankruptcy and we have been able to avoid bankruptcy by taking on extraordinary loans. This bankruptcy would have meant, let's say, that the people living in the state system, or, let's say, pensioners wouldn't have received a monthly pension or a public employee's salary if suddenly the government hadn't taken up the unruly loan from which, let's say, the Orbán government had already repaid these loans. Obviously, the Orbán government was able to do this because it was engaged in an economic policy that gave it the opportunity. So I think that I am doing the right thing by criticising the tax policy that the Socialist Government had at the time and which Mr Burány would like to bring back in some way. What have we done during these two parliamentary cycles? There is no doubt that the tax policy you have had has been fundamentally altered. We can criticise what we have done, but this must be done from the point of view, Mr Burány, that we must recognise, however, that today the economy is not in bankruptcy, that there is no budget failure. That's a sign. [[Sándor Burány: It was not even in 2010.]] This indicates that economic policy and the fiscal policy for economic policy that we have pursued over two parliamentary periods have, after all, brought results. If we acknowledge that, or if you acknowledge that - you obviously cannot question that, because the facts are stubborn - then it does suggest that there is truth in what we have done. What are the fundamental changes that we have made to your tax system? Let's start with the fact that in every way we have tried to expand the circle of those who simply tax. We inherited from you a country that doesn't have jobs in this country, half the country doesn't work, and those who work don't pay taxes. You're so proud of this system. Those who lived on minimum wage and those who were reported on minimum wage only so that they would not have to pay taxes on them - because this was your big policy, so that those on minimum wage would not pay taxes - and that system is still being protected, defending a policy based on fraud, tax avoidance, which has bankrupted the country. That's what I think, and I'm going to say it out loud that it's right to pay taxes on all wages. The solution is not to remove minimum wage workers from the tax system again. [[Erik Bánki: Raise the minimum wage!]] Instead, we drastically increase minimum wages, through the policy of wage growth, we provide these people with income through which they work, and therefore they are also involved in bearing public burdens. It gives these people a backbone, and it's not the thinking that you've done to make it a modest minimum wage, not to hear about you, not to go to work, the rest of you don't go to work, and then the rest of you solve these questions. That was your policy, it can't be brought back. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Are you serious right now? What about indirect taxes?]] You can't bring that back. The other thing we did, yes, we reduced the direct taxes, you say it's not enough. We think it is a good direction that we have reduced direct taxes, i.e. taxes on wages - you do not dispute that - we have made it one-key, this has been said here in the debate, and at the same time, let us speak openly about this, yes, we have increased indirect taxes. We raised the tax to 27 percent when we reduced personal income tax, and we introduced family tax incentives in Europe in an unprecedented way. Many people live in families because everyone is involved in reducing their family tax burden. The demographic situation should also be changed, we should be able to change the tragic situation in Europe that there are no children born in Hungary, and therefore we need to value those who raise children in every way and should be supported, which is in the interests of all of us. So this shift to reduce personal income tax and, along with it, support families in an unprecedented way, I think that this is an acceptable effort. Obviously, there has to be some kind of revenue for a government budget, and we found this temporarily there, yes, we have increased the VAT. But let's add that since then we have left VAT at not 27 percent in many places, but reduced it to 5 percent in the case of basic products. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not true!]] This VAT law before us also includes such measures. The other, which is typical of the Orbán government's tax policy, we know that a budget and tax policy also allow transfers between income owners. In the case of the socialists, if there was trouble, if money had to be raised, he always found in the families and small people the ownership circle that could be taxed. [[Zoltán Pride: You can't be serious!? They were full of helicopters and boats.]] What an uproar it was across Europe, honourable Member Haughty, when we broke up with these practices, and we didn't start dealing with families and individuals when we had to generate tax revenues, but we were reaching out to the multinationals. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Why lie?]] We've reached out to the trade chains and we've put in separate taxes. The system of special taxes has also been criticised from the height of Brussels, you have criticised us for introducing it, but this is the philosophical shift that we have created, which has given us the opportunity to finally burden the other group of income owners with greater tax revenues when we have had to deal with a crisis. The world now recognizes that. You were screaming here in Parliament when we took these steps, and the international financial world was screaming when this happened. We have been able to protect these measures, and we have intended these tax burdens, the system of special taxes, to be temporary. Since then, special taxes have also decreased, as the performance of the Hungarian economy increases, we have reduced taxes here as well. Undoubtedly, they are still in the system to some extent today, but I think that this change that we have made in this respect, that we have burdened other income owners with extra taxes at a time when taxes were needed, because I say once again that we had to deal with the global economic crisis and the bankruptcy caused by the socialists, then this change, I think, could be approved. This is the change of mind that the Orbán government represented in its tax system, and what the socialist government represented, and I will just say again that the results may justify us, because thank God for that bankruptcy. [[Zoltán Grimlock: There are 4 million poor people! The president's ringing the bell.]] We've left behind what you've caused. That is why we know in the preamble to this law, or when the Deputy Minister speaks, and says introductory sentences about this tax package, such as that the aim here is to further increase competitiveness, to reduce tax administration, to take simplified measures, to make technical clarifications, to comply with our obligations of harmonisation. With these nuanced sentences, the author virtually says that the established tax structure that we have conducted over two cycles will not be changed, we simply make clarification within the system. [[11.30]] Some of the things that may be important to mention - obviously, what we consider important is already a matter of judgement - I also mention them. There are changes within the personal income tax system that if I sell property, my income comes from it, but an elderly person acquires an elderly home, they pay more tax in this case. Prax law is important, changes to doctors resulting from the transfer of practice law. This basically means that if a doctor who originally acquired the right to practice sells his right of practice, does not pay taxes, and after five years, those who are not original practitioners can pass on his right to practice free of tax. An important change is what Mr Burány has also been critical of from a different approach, the real estate lease. The real estate lease, we know, is a typical area of the black market, with unfathomable incomes circulating. The Orbán government has already done everything - let me go back to my previous reasoning here - because we have also succeeded in our tax policy because we have found the technical details of the tax procedure, as a result of which we have achieved that what we wanted to collect we have been able to do, and we have collected these taxes for VAT and for all other taxes, and that is why we have been able to reduce taxes elsewhere. This is once again an area where it is appropriate to collect taxes that can be collected, yes, from those who can rent property, but most of these tenants have so far avoided taxes. Now that they will not have to pay a health contribution, only 14 percent of personal income tax after the lease, if they have an income of over 1 million, it is obviously hoped that this market will also become white in this respect. It will encourage important changes in corporate tax that employers can reduce their tax base if they build rentals. The same item is that when an electric charging station is set up by a company, it can reduce the tax base. I talked about the general sales tax for a relatively long time in relation to the change in our concept, i.e. our relationship with the Socialist Government. Here, in this tax package, the VAT rate on the Internet continues to decrease compared to last year, we will now pay 5% after using the Internet instead of 27 percent at some point, and the basic food is now coming in from this point of view, and fish as a product can be marketed with a VAT rate of 5% instead of 27 percent. In the case of small breweries producing 200,000 hectolitres instead of 20 thousand, everyone pointed out that excise duties are now subject to the concessions they are entitled to. Many winemakers are thank God in the country, at their request the excise reporting to be carried out on 15 August 2017 is still under the old rules. One of the changes in the system of tax administration is highlighted: if the court in administrative matters obliges the authority to proceed with a new procedure and, in the event of such a judicial decision, a revision or a request for review, the authority will be able to suspend the procedure. And a number of other items can be highlighted, because of the shortness of time, my time has passed, so I will not do it, but as a last thought, I will say that the tax policy that we have consistently conducted over two cycles has always served the revenue side of the budget, because we have been able to bring the taxes we have planned. The philosophical shift that we made, and that we wanted to primarily favour families in the tax system and to tax others - multinational companies or trade chains - I think that was also justified. The effectiveness of our tax policy is justified by objective figures. We have taken over the country's governance in bankruptcy and we will be discussing tomorrow's budget for a growing economy, and we have been able to achieve this by means of tax policy. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-16-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-16-39	Mr President, Dear House, It is always necessary to take a deep breath in the pre-budget tax debate, because the Fidesz and MSZP, the current and former governing forces, who have a bigger shovel in the sandbox and how they can rip each other's heads off with it, are simply pathetic and ridiculous. [[János Pócs intervenes.]] I'm sorry that the pro-government representatives are pointing back to a cycle that ended seven years ago, and they're very childish. It's been seven years! What you have just put on the table is a package for a year to come, which also includes facilitations and intelligent items, which would have had a lot to explain; well, not with the lies and twists that are typical of Mr Harghitai, but, as I see it, he is quite fundamentalist and already blinded by the items that have been overthrown several times on a market basis, on an economic basis, based on numbers and facts. Congressman, I'm sorry, but you should be ashamed. [[Dr. János Harghitai is laughing.]] So when you say things like you're charging multinationals with taxes and trade chains, who are you kidding? ! [[Dr. János Harghitai: Specialists!]] With regard to the reduction of corporate taxes, between 150 billion and 180 billion discount and facilitation were granted to these multi-company companies in the last period, when Hungarian small businesses were only reduced by 1 percent in the order of HUF 30 billion. These are facts, numbers; try to argue with him, if you can, then press a button. [[Dr. János Harghitai: I will!]] He just yelled at the special taxes. Your justification is pathetic. The bank's special tax was passed on almost entirely to Hungarian consumers, and it was passed on in excess of the transaction fee not only to Hungarian citizens, but also to Hungarian businesses. The Hungarian company received a letter from its bank that the item you introduced without any monitoring system was recovered from it for the five months before the transaction fee was levied! They were unable to check with a fair consumer protection system whether the bank price increases were behind real market developments or not during the period following the imposition of the special tax. So, I understand, Congressman, it sounds great that you are responsible for the multinationals, the banks are cleared or, where appropriate, trading chains, but this does not meet with reality. We are talking about facts and figures, and once again, about self-acclaiming financial institutions for passing on this form of levy, and you have done nothing about it. The third argument was that they were charged with trade chains, such as food chain monitoring and other charges. The fact is that larger and typically foreign interests have been able to avoid the payment of this type of tax almost perfectly by redeploying their portfolio, thus cutting up the group of companies. Then some cosmetic work took place with a fidesz amendment, but this is very, very far from public burdens. It is correct to note that in recent times thousands of Hungarian convenience stores have ceased to be a painful and warning sign that, where appropriate, multinational chains of foreign backgrounds are unduly favoured by you and that Hungarian units are unduly disadvantaged; and then we have not even talked about strategic agreements that also stroke multinational companies. Explain to me why the 11-12 largest multinational companies in the region, according to the Globopolis study, pay 50-60 times more taxes in the Czech Republic than in Hungary! Why is there an average tax burden of 20 per cent on these companies and a tax rate of 0.35% on these largest companies in Hungary? Pathetic, catastrophic! In many cases, their pre-tax results are the same as their post-tax results. So in this context, I cannot accept Mr Harghitai's argument. I'd love to, because I'm not a backup fan, and I'd like the multinationals to be subject to public burdens, but I can't tell you the truth, because that's what the facts and figures show. It is not my distaste, because I have no grudge, but the fact is that reality is facing and not proving what you are talking about; it proves, however, that since 2010, there has been a tax system filled with exotic tax types, where the accounting profession knows more than sixty types of taxes and types of tax increases - many of which are related to Fidesz-KDNP governments - so philosophical change cannot be achieved in action. Newly known as a new breed and, once again, we recognize a number of exotic tax types, but unfortunately, they have been passed on in order. What hurts, on the other hand, and what we need to discuss in the future is a reduction in VAT on basic foods. [[11.40]] Now, when we held a press conference on the submitted draft budget, we said that, on a scale, the best experts found a HUF 600 billion or totally unnecessary item in this draft, or a expenditure that we do not see any special meaning, and here I am thinking not only of operational, material expenses, but also of pyramid constructions, prestige investments that we would not or would not do in this form. We see that in this budget, too, because there is no near bankruptcy situation in 2010, there would be a reserve for three things. To fully reduce VAT on basic foods, to a level of 5 per cent, for all products, which belongs to the consumer basket of an average Hungarian citizen. You are still very far from this, since until last year, VAT has been reduced to 5% in a manner that affects 6-7 percent of the average consumer basket, and now one or two more products have been added, but we would like to extend this to 100 percent. There would be room to reduce the VAT on child-rearing articles in the middle of a demographic winter, a disaster situation. It is untenable for Hungary to have the largest VAT content in all of Europe for child-rearing articles. Thirdly, a real home creation programme is needed, which not only benefits social classes who are lucky with a CSOK, not only with a discount of 10 million, but also builds a mass of rent apartments. This could be launched, too, with a budget reserve. I am absolutely in favour of reducing VAT on the Internet and on Internet services, and we have been demanding it for years, and I am very pleased that this can finally be passed through the system. Which, on the other hand, seems a little messed up, although it seemed the right thing to do, is to settle the VAT on restaurant services. After all, it was typical that the various VAT rates for the food consumed and the delivery were set, i.e. between 18 and 27 percent, but a good part of the traders - respect for the exception - reacted to this by not reaching the basic price, but by increasing the price of the food requested for delivery in terms of the difference between the VAT rate, so there was a kind of implied price increase and very alarming practical examples. The practical example that I think all my fellow Members have seen comes up on a very simple web portal. According to this, if someone in a coffee shop drinks a cup of coffee in the morning, a glass of orange juice, eats a hot sandwich with it, then asks for a glass of fresh milk and a doughnut to go, coffee falls under an 18 per cent key, like a nonalcoholic and locally made drink. The hot sandwich, as a locally consumed food, is placed under a 27 percent VAT rate, but only filled with orange juice and the take-off doughnuts can display this VAT, as it is already a product sale. Finally, the delivery milk we asked for was delivered to the 5% VAT rate, so regardless of whether the delivery VAT is 27 percent, this should be taken into account by 5 percent. So there are at least three types of VAT rates for a simple morning coffee shop purchase, the administrative burden of which is on the trader on the one hand, and no one checks that the trader solves this issue with a simple price increase on the other hand, or actually tries to enforce the VAT reduction in the form of a price reduction in an honest manner. Experience shows that most people choose a simpler solution. I also have to tell you that there have been a couple of yellings from the Fidesz-KDNP section, even during one of the opposition keynote speakers, for example, we give people a job with the title Fidesz-KDNP. It's a typical fidesz comment, let's interpret it a little bit. Typically, between 500 and 600 thousand new jobs are discussed during the seven-year term by Fidesz representatives. Reality, on the other hand, is a little different. There are three types of items which distort the image of employees. One of them is public workers, where we may be able to count on a 200,000 average depending on a seasonal, different way, but typically. This includes student workers, who, in my view, did not belong to the employees even at the time of the socialist economic policy, at least they were not included; and some Hungarians working abroad are included. Basically, I think that the statistical base is also wrong, and I would defend you in that it is not just here, but throughout Europe that the calculation of workers is based on a very faulty statistical base. But Fidesz-KDNP is fond of using this base and lying to people's faces in an unspeakable way that hundreds of thousands more new jobs have been created and created here than before. But the fact is, according to statistics, if a person works only one hour a week, it is already recorded among employees as a full-fledged worker. This distorts the numbers that have come out to such an extent that it is simply in the Parliament to refer to them as a professionally indefensible, and I would also say that to Mr Secretary of State or any other Fidesz representative: everyone who works for up to an hour a week is included in paper. Not applicable. By the way, the Head of Department of your Ministry has also admitted this at a committee meeting. [[To interrupt András Tállai:]] I don't understand what you're saying, but you're obviously gonna press a button. If I understand correctly, you're saying that there is a shortage of workers. I'll tell Mr. Secretary. For example, you posted a poster to account for the banks, while a disgusting market HUF contributed to the looting of people, crediting these literally hundreds of billions in the accounts of the banks concerned, and a lot of people are forced to work abroad, typically for three reasons. One of the very typical reasons is that they can only pay off their foreign payments, let's say, their credit burdens here. I know you don't acknowledge that there is such a phenomenon, but it exists in the order of one hundred thousand. The other reason is the problem of home creation. So an average Hungarian youth thinks about how to get an apartment, a property, and realizes that the average wages and salaries in Hungary are nothing. The third reason is typically the uncertainty, mistrust and unpredictability caused by successive governments in Hungary, thus the negative aura that unfortunately pervades this country. If, therefore, and not only under your governance, but especially under your governance, hundreds of thousands of people have left key and strategic sectors in Hungary, then the shortage of labour will certainly come to its head, unfortunately now and in almost all sectors. So that's the answer to your question. But the thing is, back to how many people you give work to, adding that it is not the Government of Hungary that gives you that job, perhaps in the case of public works you can refer to the fact that you give people jobs, but to enumerate student workers and enumerate Hungarians working abroad, it is quite rude, while Hungarians working abroad typically refer to more than 900 billion forints a year. Imagine, Mr Secretary, that if these Hungarian people could create value at home, they could pay much more tax at home than they could be sent home with their residual money, the image of this country would look quite different. So we need to create a climate to make this possible. We have to say that I will not criticize the discounts you have set out here one by one. So it's not like I'm getting into everything with a pair of legs in a tax relief package, but what we see is that the rule that excludes certain types of restaurants, let's say, from VAT reductions and other discounts, will again only harm and burden workers with the smallest profit margin. The losers of this rule are Hungarian-owned menus, workplace canteens and catering companies, which give jobs to domestic entrepreneurs and Hungarian people, and here they undertake to bear public burdens in contrast to your multi-companies and strategic partners. We can see that even as regards special taxes, they have been allowed to pass these on to multi-company companies. Hungarian citizens, it is perfectly visible from the draft budget that how much, especially consumption-type taxes must be paid. Here is a very serious pillar of your budget of the thousands of billions, compare, Mr Secretary of State, with the number of the sum that the Hungarian people, the simple people - not the businesses - have to pay taxes and realize that one of the most brutally taxed environments is Hungary and the Hungarian economy, both in absolute and relative terms. So it's quite amazing that you're referring to a philosophical turn of events. It would have been more honest to say that you thought there was so much room for manoeuvre, that you wanted to move so far. And there have also been sincere speeches, such as why Fidesz-KDNP continued to raise the tax previously raised by the socialists to 27 percent. They said that there was a need to generate revenue for the budget. The problem is that this 27-percented VAT, thanks to the EU record and the Fidesz-KDNP, has been reduced or reduced to at least the original rate in an average basket of products. That is why we say that some of the tax reliefs are understandable and good, about HUF 35 billion is being moved by the package, which, by the way, could move ten times that, if a little more than half of the meaningless space left in the budget were to be transferred to meaningful purposes, it would be possible to reduce the total VAT on basic foods, reduce the VAT on child-rearing products, and most importantly, a decent home creation programme that could slow emigration and lead to demographic shift. Thank you for your attention. [[11.50]]
u2017-05-16-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-05-16-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Each year, tax laws show the framework within which the economy can operate, how people tax, what their prospects are in terms of work and income, and how the tax system, which is essential for the operation of public services, develops. The government's principles, if you can call them that, are obvious based on the last seven years. The first is for our dogs and their kids to benefit. 5-8 percent of Hungarian society belongs to the layer that Fidesz multiplely favors and oversubsidies. This is what the introduction of a single-key tax, with which the top tenth won HUF 500 billion a year. This was also the case with a number of other measures that eased the burden on high-income people, including the reduction of the rent. This is also beneficial, as it was introduced in a single-key way, mostly with the rich and the pool. Within the narrow layer of 5-8 percent, the few families, some oligarchs, who have access to hundreds of billions of dollars in other ways, such as public procurement, are also receiving extreme benefits. In the tax system, they are served by recurring tax amnesties, corporate tax discounts, mansion and historic renovation benefits, reduction of bank tax, and more. In general, as soon as the Fidesz slepp acquires a dominant property in a sector, whether it be banking, real estate or tourism, an amendment of the law immediately appears, which pumps tens of billions of public forints to entrepreneurs in that sector. The families of the narrow ruling class, Orbán, Mészáros, Rogán, Tiborcz, Garancsi, Matolcsy, used to drive hundreds of billions of forints of our money home each year with these discounts. In addition, multinational companies are also significant beneficiaries of Fidesz's tax system. A large part of these companies are here in Hungary because of cheap wage work. Maintaining this structure is not in our country's interest in the longer term, but the government grants them investment grants and tax incentives. Their last gift was a shameful 10 percent reduction in corporate tax. This is a 170 billion HUF gift for them. So, contrary to what Fidesz falsely claims that they taxed the multinationals, the vast majority of the levied bank, energy and telecom taxes are actually only taxes collected by companies, but paid by the population, since most of them, 70-80 percent, have been passed on. The true taxation of the multinationals has not been lifted, and it is not by accident. If that had been the case, the offshore tax avoidance channels should have been closed first, which, in turn, would have basically violated the interests of the fidesz slepp. In addition, there is a large circle of beneficiaries of the Fidesz tax system, which LMP agrees with, which is support for families and benefits for children. Together with the need to significantly improve the conditions, the whole system has been a balloon for a very long time, a political product, since only three children had a meaningful discount. Families with two children for a long time, single children still don't count as Fidesz, even though the vast majority of children live in that family. It should also be borne in mind that although this benefit rightly recognises the additional cost of raising children, it is not appropriate to increase the desire to have children. That would require other means, such as helping with the work of mothers with children, which Fidesz has so far rejected. Now, after seven years of government, they start to try it. It's a little late, now one in six Hungarian children are born abroad. There is a boom in the taxes that have been introduced in a dilettant way or directly with evil intentions, in the taxing of chips tax, advertising tax, fixed infrastructure, which have a regulatory impact or do not work, such as the chips tax, or in contrast to the interests of the country, for example, to increase the operation of rural infrastructure. Fidesz's tax system therefore supports wealthy people, including some privileged families. And the price of the new feudal arrangement will be paid by employees, wage sufferers, high labour and high consumption taxes. It's called kinky redistribution. We see, then, who benefit from Fidesz's tax system, but who are the ones who are gradually promised, but do not give them the opportunity to have a life perspective? Who are the victims of the Orbán system in terms of taxation? First of all, you have to highlight earners on or below the average wage. This layer includes 70 percent of the working Hungarian people. They're the victims of the one-key tax, and they're the ones who are hit by the world's champion VAT. They're the ones who can't make a living on their monthly income when they work day and night. They and their children are fleeing abroad, they are nurses, teachers, social workers, music teachers, chicken workers, waste processors, small business workers, civil society organisations, and could be classified indefinitely. The minimum wage net has been below the minimum living wage since 2010, perhaps next year. More than 100 billion were taken from the lower incomes for the benefit of the rich. And I'll continue the line: small domestic businesses. This is particularly rude because Fidesz has always fought for Hungarian family businesses in words. Now we know that this only applies to a few specific families: Simicska, Orbán, Mészáros, Rogán, Tiborcz, Garancsi, Matolcsy and some others. Small businesses in Hungary suffer, because the tax office is relentlessly retaliating at all small mistakes or delays, but does not allow businesses to live. They are affected by reports, reports, reporting and hundreds of tax returns. They have more to do with administration than to produce quality products and services. The last knife wound was a minimum wage increase. In two years, the minimum wage will rise by 25 percent, which is necessary and good. However, the fact that domestic small and medium-sized enterprises pay the full burden of this is not that they can be ruined. As compensation, they receive a reduction in contributions, so to speak, but this is only 7 percent. Of course, the large ones, the multinationals and the Hungarian large entrepreneurs received 10 percent more as a reduction in corporate tax. And now we're gonna wonder if, when the numbers come out, the government's willing to change. The data showed that nearly 5,000 small businesses were destroyed last year due to the 5.5 percent wage increase that they could not produce. This year, 15 and 25 percent have to be produced, and next year the line continues. The government does not care at all that small and medium-sized enterprises will collapse in bulk. It should also be said that the Orbán system is the victim of all nature, our environment, sustainable resource management. The solar panels are subject to a tax until the batteries are barely charged. It is also necessary to mention the concentration of agricultural land, which already surpasses the Horthy era, giving space to the sovereignty of exploitative industrial agriculture. Neither the low product prices, nor the mining fee, nor the non-existent CO2 tax, nor any incentive to conserve resources, reduce energy use and pollution. In fact, it leads to waste, while resources are dramatically shrinking in the world, but also in Hungary. It's a suicide strategy. In view of all this, what tax system would be necessary? In short, a simpler, fairer, more sustainable tax system. And specifically: a progressive personal income tax reduction, which would make the minimum wage tax exempt, increasing its value by 30 percent; the average wage would increase immediately by 20 percent and 38 thousand HUF compared to Fidesz's 2018 tax bill. However, those who earn more than one million forints a month would pay more taxes, which is necessary to achieve social cohesion, and society is very fragmented. There is a need to reduce VAT on basic foods. Foods for life support are almost never taxed this high anywhere. The government has been making a partial reduction for years; it needs to be comprehensive, including bread, vegetables and fruit. [[12.00]] Reduction of VAT on public transport. It is also particularly important in the less developed regions to find a job a little further away from emigrating. But in general, it is a much better investment than building new and new motorways for billions. It is also important to reduce the VAT on building renovations. This could be the most effective way of supporting the creation of cheaper, energy-efficient homes and sustainable reduction of overhead costs. Moreover, as with basic food VAT, this would also result in the whitening of the market. In the taxation of small businesses, we should move towards revenue-related taxes, which will help them survive and operate smoothly if we do not have to report bankruptcy after a bad month due to criminal, fixed items, and then because of cumulative and rolled debts. Taxes on the use of resources, such as mining fees, product charges, land taxes, should be raised. And above all, we need to close off the offshore channels, the possibility of legalized tax evasion. Let the rich pay, too, so that while a Hungarian small enterprise is paying 60-70 percent of its income, 50 percent of the wages of a Hungarian worker, a tricky big business or business is good if it pays 5-10 percent. No, no more tax amnesty. In view of all this, what can be said about the current tax laws? The fact that they don't reconfigure the system in particular, they're grating it, so the people you've already hit will continue to do so. They continue to waste public money on visual sports. Now the bank tax is being transferred to the corrupt and overgrown system. Instead of visual team sports, environmental protection or rural development could be promoted in this way. That would make much more sense, they are indeed public goals, support for professional sports clubs - because most of the tao money ends up there, make no mistake - no. They're deregulating the real estate investment market. Obviously, a lot of real estate has been bought by friends, and now you can speculate with them, and you don't need all the stupid rules that were in order not to create a real estate bubble, so private interests can't overtake the public interest. But if it's about enriching the little family, it doesn't matter. The most interesting substantive step is the abolition of the ehoy of real estate expenditure. Although the former system was stupid and counterproductive, the change faithfully reflects the principles of Fidesz: always let the rich benefit. And it's also talkative that it took them seven years to make their move in this area. I'm sure they didn't have an idea or the ability to make a decisive move. According to LMP's proposals, the limit for eho payment should have been increased to HUF 3 million, and it would have charged only the above income. This would have had a whitening effect, while it would only have given a very favourable tax on wages to the level of an average income. Fidesz's move now supports the rich again, the many apartments that are sold out. The benefit class, the five to eight percent of Fidesz's patrons, gets hundreds of thousands again, while the 92 percent are struggling. Half the country will be empty because they'll be paid hunger at home or not even at home. Other than that, there are no dentists or wrappers, also due to low wages. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-05-16-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. This would be an opportunity for independent representatives to speak, but there is no independent Member in the Chamber at the moment. However, it is now coming up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing nationalities. I give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, who presents the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translates them into Hungarian and continues his speech. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-05-16-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. As an advocate, I would like to express our committee's opinion. The detailed discussion of the T/15428, the Act amending certain tax laws and other related laws is covered by the House Regulations 32. Paragraph 2 and Article 36 § 5 has conducted and formulated its opinion as a committee related to the debate. Our Committee welcomes the author of the bill that he considered it justified that the bill should be discussed as a nationality item by the Parliament. With regard to nationalities, we would like to make the following comments. The change in tax laws also significantly affects Hungarian citizens belonging to nationalities living in Hungary. By increasing the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, it affects it differently by reducing the social contribution, depending on the situation and size of the institutions taken over by the nationality institution and the nationalities. National authorities continue to operate through budgetary support, which means they do not have their own revenue. Thus, by legally binding increases in minimum wages, budgetary expenditure also increases in terms of wages, which could negatively affect local governments where these increases need to be made. Budgetary compensation in these institutions would be the right solution, since increased expenditure is necessary for national authorities as institutional supporters to generate their operating revenues. The 1 percent tax offer also affects nationalities in Hungary, as many ethnic NGOs, churches or foundations are entitled to accept the 1 percent tax offer. In many respects, this does not constitute a large amount of money, but it significantly contributes to stabilising the operation of organisations, which sometimes means survival for them. The amendment of the Tao Law, the change in the conditions for granting support to institutions and theatres, also affects nationalities, as these grants create a secure operation for them. The effects of the change in tax laws appear in practice after adoption, which sometimes challenges our national governments and organisations. Of course, we nationalities also welcome and welcome the tax incentives that guarantee us that we will be able to manage from more budgetary resources. Dear Parliament, T/15428. No amendment has been proposed by the Nationalities Committee of Hungary in relation to the bill amending certain tax laws and other related laws. Благодаря завашето внимание! Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2017-05-16-44	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. For a two-minute speech from the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-16-45	Mr President, Dear House, Even though Fidesz-KDNP has taxed the minimum wage, it has made this perhaps even greater mistake even against socialist devastating economic policy, even if, of course, we cannot read as many crimes against the Fidesz-KDNP's neck or eyes as we could against the socialists. Let's just think about letting go of currency lending. But you guys didn't sort out the same process. So they're kind of connected somewhere. But by staying on the subject, in terms of the tax duration of the minimum wage, they said that you will raise wages, the minimum wage, and in this way that you may or may not be able to manage that discount. I am asking the Secretary of State whether any comparison has been made as to whether Hungarian wages are closer than regional countries and the so-called EU average, because we see that if we measure the increase in Hungarian wages in euro, the slight increase of 15-25 percent that is planned to be made over the last two periods will certainly result in a lower increase than that of the countries in the region. We therefore see that if they supported the EU concept of Jobbik's wage, which, in contrast to government lies, does not at all mean giving Brussels any tax power, but would simply slow down or eliminate the robbing mechanism in the West-East under which Hungary was practically colonised in an economic sense, then we could move forward; once again, if the Government would support Jobbik's concept in this direction. However, if you do not support it, the question arises, according to what principles, how do you intend to fight to catch up on Hungarian wages at least near the western level, because unfortunately, the statistics show that there is a constant distance at the moment. As much as we don't like it, I don't like it, but we have to talk about it, but we have to figure it out. Thank you for your attention. [[12.10]]
u2017-05-16-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry. Here you go.
u2017-05-16-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As regards the tax laws for 2018, there were a number of comments in keynote speeches and opposition speeches that I think it is worth mentioning at the beginning of my speech. On behalf of the Fidesz fraction, what I would like to say most briefly about the tax laws that have just been submitted is that basically a predictable, predictable tax package, giving the opportunity to develop, has now been submitted to the Parliament. The statements or contributions of opposition representatives make me react somewhat, especially to my socialist fellow Members. We did not basically start to see which tax policy was better, before or after 2010, but it is inevitable that if we have to compare the two tax policies, then what we see today, 2017 and what we saw before 2010. I don't really want to talk about numbers, I want to talk about a different attitude. Indeed, in a normally functioning country, which I think is increasingly typical of Hungary, the debate of a tax law is a distribution debate. Members can argue among themselves about where and how much we spend on the income generated by the country, by citizens. But I think this would be a good debate, because then we can talk about what we have to spend, we have priorities for where we should spend in this country in terms of improving our country. My fellow socialists, too, are obviously stuck in a debate that occurred before 2010, which is more about how to sabotage what is worth embracing. Indeed, I myself was present at the debate of some tax laws between 2006 and 2010, the main question was how and from whom to take as much as possible as possible as a result of the failed economic policy of the following year, and where to take less from. Compared to this, I think it is a quality category where we can argue about it, and we can have differences in world view and belief about what is really worth spending in a country with a good economic background. I am very sorry that my fellow Member Burány is not here, because here he has raised a debate on how and how multinational companies have been taxed and how the current government is related to this. Here he highlighted an area of commerce. I would like to point out to you, a very modest Member, that the original sin that concerns Hungarian trade was born sometime after 2004, in the time of socialist governments, when [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Have you read the latest statistics, Congressman?]] I, too, have listened to the speech by the honourable Member, the other one - I think it is worth talking about the fact that after 2004, the socialist governments of that time should have conducted negotiations in the EU to try to protect domestic traders from multinational companies that have basically destroyed more than 50 percent of the domestic market today. After 2010, the then government, as appropriate, tried to help with these various instruments. We also have some serious struggles with the European Union on how to balance domestic traders as much or as much as possible this shifted balance. The situation is not easy, but I think it is important to take the idea that that government has done everything in its power to compensate for the negative developments in Hungarian trade caused by its faulty policy in 2004, I think it is unfair. My fellow Members of the opposition asked who was good at this budget, especially from the LMP side. I wouldn't want to go too far back to the false accusations that this budget is only positive for a narrow circle. I think that, by the way, there is a positive element in this budget for all social groups. There is a tax reduction, tax simplification, all the opportunities provided by economic growth. Basically, I think that if it is to be named whose budget it is, then there has been a consistent position here since 2010, which we hope will also appear in the 2018 budget, that this budget will provide opportunities for young people who want to work or work, to raise or raise children, to move from one to two, to create a family house, to create a home, to become entrepreneurs. I trust that this country will really be before a historic turn of events if those people in this country are in the majority, and I trust that there are also the majority of people who want to work, want to have children, want to have a family, and want to step one by two. So I can say that this budget is a majority budget, but otherwise it has positive changes for everyone. Allow a framework of interpretation only briefly, because I believe that the details of the tax laws were contained in both the Secretary of State and the speeches by the lead speaker. Perhaps it is worth getting a little closer to the budget from the business side, even because I believe that if Hungarian entrepreneurs are doing well, tax revenues will increase, if Hungarian businesses are doing well, job opportunities will increase, and overall, if Hungarian businesses are doing well, the citizens of the country will also be better. There are perhaps three areas of interpretation in which it is worth interpreting not only this, but also the tax laws at all. One is a general framework, the general framework that means a tax environment for businesses, the framework in which they can plan, where entrepreneurs can implement their ideas, in which they can make use of their development potential. Another important factor is resources and development ideas, since the main task of an entrepreneur is not to maintain a system. An entrepreneur always plans ahead, always wants more, always wants to make the most of the opportunities. The third of these areas will allow you to say a few words. One thing that an entrepreneur can plan is one thing that has resources, the most important question is whether he can sell his products and services, because despite the good plan, despite the source, if there is no one to buy the product and service, then the first two are not worth much. How are we doing with these three areas in the area of businesses? I think that the tax environment continues to show signs of stabilisation after 2010, which, in fact, came from 2012-13 to the largest of the smallest businesses, where today an entrepreneur, unlike the previous period, can safely plan ahead for up to two or three years, clearly stable economic policy does not drag businesses, there are no mid-year tax increases, and there are no year-end tax increases. [[12.20]] In fact, we have come to the point that a business that operates fairly - it can operate fairly today, too, as it is a huge thing in 2017, because the tax system does not necessarily force businesses to trick; believe me, the managers of businesses are happy to sleep at night, if they do not have to deal with how the tax authorities harass them - well, we have come to the point that for most entrepreneurs the tax environment is predictable and clean. I think that is the basis for business. Another important issue is the resources that businesses provide for development in the tax environment. There are basically two areas to this. The tax laws may not be affected, but the way in which companies want to develop credit is transferred. They can develop from basically either from EU funds or from credit. I wouldn't want to bring him here, because it would probably be very simplistic to discuss the conditions under which a business could obtain credit, say, before 2010, with interest rates above 10 per cent, which simply excluded any development concept, there is no sector or very few with such a rate of return. We have now come to the point that banks have started lending, if not as much as we would like, but there is a normal way to obtain credit. It has not been said here today, but it is essential and only transferred to the tax laws that the opportunities provided by EU funds can also be a huge boost for businesses in 2017-18. So it can be said that the situation of businesses has also improved significantly from the source side and has become predictable. And perhaps the most important thing, as I mentioned, is that if there is something, there is a framework to plan and there is a source to implement the ideas, then the question is whether there is one who buys it. The best news for businesses is that by leaving more money in this budget than people, domestic consumption is now growing for more than 40 months. And we know that the majority of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises operate on the domestic market, so the most important question for them is whether Hungarian people, Hungarian families, can buy their products and services. The good news in this tax law is that there will be a source for people, there will be something for them to buy, there will be something for them to spend on businesses. So, overall, I dare say that there is a balanced, predictable and developing budget and the laws that underpin it here for businesses. And let me add one more point that my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Carpát, expressed our agreement on. I would like to highlight this because businesses and economic processes are often simplified in terms of economic indicators. However, I very much agree that the long-term barrier to economic growth must be found in demographic trends. It has been highlighted here by few, but it has to be said that this tax law, which is now coming into force, is uniquely giving the highest expenditure to families in Europe in proportion to GDP. If I quote the number correctly, it is around 4 percent of total GDP that we spend on family support. I think that it is good to be the first in this, and it is good to talk here in the migration debates about the fact that there is a country that, with its economic policy, is trying to respond to demographic and migration challenges. And there are results, even if they are modest. It may not be so good for tax laws, but it is worth saying that this is not a money thrown out of a window, because when we look at it from 2010, we reached the bottom of the number of children per mother, a woman, in Hungary sometime in 2010, around 1,22, today this figure is close to 1.5, which is still far from the desirable 1.9-2, but I think that the process that started from 2010 shows well that it makes sense and needs to continue this policy. We are confident that support for families will bring results either through the budget and tax laws. So once again, Honourable House of Representatives, Mr President, Minister of State, these tax laws, which have been submitted to Parliament as a basis for the budget, are precisely because we can support and ask everyone for a positive budget for those who want to work, for those who are raising children and for businesses, on the part of the Fidesz faction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-05-16-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2017-05-16-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, When we talk about tax laws and their changes, this is obviously also inseparable from budgetary matters. When we talk about the budget, you've been talking about the budget of people from work lately. I would like to point out that this is not what the changes and changes are about. Most of the changes, most of them are in line with the incomes that are not tied to the work, and the benefits of that system, obviously in the interests of self-interest and those of your pereputation or of your own moonyard. There was a big dream. The story was that there will be a single-digit single-key personal income tax in Hungary by 2018. We can already see that this doesn't add up, instead of 9 - because it's the highest single digit - we're facing 15; only because the promises and the reality are in line with each other. [[Sándor Font: If we did this, you would object to it!]] Look, my fellow Member, there's the button, you can push and then you can talk. But that's not the point. The point is that, in addition to the non-reduction of 15 per cent of personal income tax, employee contributions, which appear as labour costs, also did not decrease. Take a smart look at what the amount of the levy on the minimum wage paid by employees and employers in 2010 looked like: it was HUF 32 thousand in line with the net minimum wage of HUF 60 200. And now in 2017 we are talking about the fact that this contribution is over 73 thousand forints; it is not double, but more than double. So the story is that when, for example, you raise a minimum wage, a guaranteed minimum wage, you raise your gross to the sky, raise your contributions to the sky, and collect them from employers. Practically, the amounts collected represent more than they give people a net HUF increase. So who's the winner here? In fact, it is not the employee, nor the employer, because the employer can pay, the employee can go shopping in the shops with about that kind of real money in his pocket. The current government, you're the beneficiaries, because you can distribute these funds to your friends as you please. But let us give an example of what taxation looks like in Hungary today in the case of workers or families without children - because there are also families and workers like this! The Hungarian tax wedge represents a value above 48 per cent, otherwise it is the third highest in the OECD state of affairs. But if I go back to the former issue of taxation of the minimum wage, I must say to you that in this round, i.e. the OECD Member States, the first, the highest. It's no coincidence, as I said, that the overall burden of contributions has increased from 32,000 to 73,000. In 2010, the public debt-to-GDP ratio was 37.5 per cent, with the year closed for 2016, it rose to 39.2 per cent. And the tax system they run is in the interest of the rich. Over 400 billion forints is the money that enabled the wealthy to continue to grow, while the taxes on low incomes and low income families have been constantly increasing. It's gone, it's already been mentioned today, but I can confirm that the minimum wage tax has been abolished. What was exempt before 2010 is first combined with a tax burden of 16 per cent and 15 per cent in the current period. [[12.30]] So there's nothing else to say, low incomes are paired with the highest tax burden. I am not talking about the question of VAT, because my fellow Member Zoltán Gőgös is going to open this, and I would just like to say one sentence: 27 per cent; 27 per cent European, world championship summit, what you have done in this respect. In 2018, income from non-work is taxed at half of what is paid as a wage. Do you understand? ! This is the budget of those who work in your line of work, where income from non-work is taxed half of it as income from wages. Friend support's okay, you can see that. They're opening up another loophole, now here for the tao in order to take advantage of them. In the central budget, because the issue is related, they earn HUF 942 billion more revenue in 2018, which amounts to 8.1 percent. And it should also be added that consumption-related tax revenues amount to HUF 363 billion. The increase in VAT amounts to approximately HUF 300 billion. The increase in retail deposits can also be called for, as it is published in the budget and also confirms an increase of approximately HUF 300 billion. Or let's look at personal income tax. In terms of personal income tax, HUF 2090 billion is the magnitude that is expected. This is 17 percent higher than in 2017. And, of course, in addition to all of this, the rate of tax payments increases by approximately one fifth, which is estimated at HUF 190 billion. And as I said in the meantime, she stayed at 15 percent while earning 17 percent higher income than last year. A few more things about the minimum wage and its taxation. Unfortunately, with regard to the minimum wage, we are still climbing on the net minimum wage for the V4s. Because wages are what people take in. The purchasing power of minimum wages for six years was less than in 2010, at the time of the change of government, and now before the change of government, they made a change that could achieve the 2010 level of real wages at all. For six years, people in the lowest income position have been stolen in this regard. They had less purchasing power money in their hands because of your regulation, the increase in contributions. The reduction of the tax burden was done at the richest, not where it should have been, just where it would have been needed, among the poorest or not so wealthy. The income situation of Hungarians in Hungary today seems to be 28th place again with regard to OECD Member States, looking at 31 countries. If we look at, say, 2010 and 2017, 2018 expected things, then we see that the resources spent on the state's operational functions are growing rapidly, and there is an upward trend, while the money spent on welfare functions is constantly decreasing depending on the budget. So I think that if you are talking about the budget of people from work and the introduction of related tax laws, you are not saying the word correctly. It is, in fact, a budget of corruption and injustice, accompanied by a number of tax laws that make matters more difficult for people who are not in very good conditions and who earn little. I will conclude with one final example. When a person does not have an insurance relationship for any reason, the amount payable for social security is even increased to HUF 7320 from the previous amount. Well, that's what's basically a problem, your philosophy, through tax and budgetary laws, not where you need to be, but where your interests serve. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-05-16-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Zoltán Gőgös. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-16-51	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, My colleague Erik Bánki, I see he is no longer here. I'm guessing you rushed home to help your lawyer-educated farmer's wife grow 300 acres. By the way, you should, because it's an intensive plant protection period, so I think you're better off at home than you are here in Parliament. The only reason I'm saying this is because we know that they've hired a grant for about 300 acres of land, which means they're going to farm the land themselves. Which, by the way, is respectable, with four kids and two more full-time jobs. So I can only congratulate you on that. We also know that you've benefited very well from your four children, and once again, you're very respectable with the tax benefits. But not everyone has done so well, but two of my fellow Members have already said so here, as have all my opposition fellow Members. I was just thinking, in connection with the VAT amendment, that I would try to make another attempt to get the government to understand better, so that it does not do the VAT reduction in this dripping way; and I could say that they are doing what I have submitted 14 times, only 14 times voted off, right, just one item at a time. I would add that any measure makes real sense if we did not leave a loophole for different specialised criminal groups to shift their activities to different product categories. What we need to clearly see is that the VAT reduction, obviously I am talking primarily about basic food, has a double effect. One of them causes a price reduction. And I'd like to clarify a misunderstanding right now, because there's quite a lot of polemia here, how is it that VAT cuts disappear relatively quickly. VAT is an element of the price, and obviously, if it is high, it also generates a very high price. However, I would like to point out that, in particular, I would like to refer to the reduction in pig VAT, that when it happened, quite rightly, it was a very low purchase price of 280 forints, which is why producers or at least small producers have obviously stopped doing this type of activity. Unfortunately, I have some bad news, we're talking about a stock of less than 3 million, when the shortage occurs, prices are obviously rising. Even with the current production price around 420-450 HUF, it cannot be the same as when the producer price was 280 HUF, even though the VAT has fallen. But one thing you should know is that it wouldn't be 1200 forints a kilo, it would be, say, 1500 forints. I have to say this against the wrong professional opinions that trade absorbs. Obviously, it swallows a few percent, but it can no longer be swallowed by 18 percentage points of VAT reduction of 17.9 percentage points. The same is true of poultry. Avian influenza came in at the same time as the VAT reduction and the shortage due to avian influenza caused an increase in the producer price. But I could also say other increases in overhead, which obviously producers are not always able to take on. I say this specifically in the defence of producers, that, unfortunately, it must be noted that a sector cannot work with loss, and it is therefore very important that everyone is aware of this. This is one part of the VAT reduction, the fall in prices, which is really better for the low-income. We didn't want to do this element in a package for nothing. However, it would be necessary, as I said, to add two more elements, rather three elements, to this year's fish tax reduction, and then the package that the profession put together six years ago would really be complete, and specifically in terms of what is good for Hungarian agriculture and what is obviously good for the smaller earners. [[12.40]] I believe that one of the most important elements of this amendment is fruit and vegetables. If you look at the fruit and vegetable turnover, according to the profession, there is between 60 and 70% black turnover. It's not a mistake, it's 60 to 70 percent. This is precisely because there is such a terrible VAT fraud pressure on the system that our own producers are unable to sell their goods together with official invoicing, because they are incompetence with the EU producers, which come primarily from Poland, but are now produced in Morocco, especially against vegetables. From here on out, there's only one way to put this in the five percent circle. About 20 billion VAT losses for fruit and vegetables together after turnover, which would mean that there is no such fraud from then on. I'd like to tell everyone there are no 70-forint potatoes, people, and 150-for-forint new potatoes! It's all cheating! Even though you introduced me - I say to Mr Secretary of State - any EKÁER will be played like a finch, so it is simply not tangible. In fact, what I see is that they sell the VAT-free Polish import potatoes along the roads as if we didn't even have an authority. Where I'm going all over the country, there's always a sign that's for sale potatoes, and there's a bag number. And these are not the Hungarian small producers - to make everyone understand - because the Hungarian small producer is the one who dumps the produce in the middle of the village, perhaps in his house; I would add, he will not give an invoice either, precisely because if he had to receive an invoice, no one would stop there, but would go two kilometres, then buy the otherwise infected, withdrawn Polish seed potatoes, because this cannot go without it. That's one part of it that needs to be done. The other: there is a constant problem with fruit. I believe that the Hungarian fruit sector will not be able to compete with the imports, which I believe will be imported by VAT fraud in the vast majority of cases. It's the most classic trick. Most of the traffic went through there. Not to mention someone who had put it in the Prime Minister's brain and the Minister Lazarus' brain that UHT milk had a preservative. I'll tell you again, I've told you a million times that UHT is different from normal fresh milk because it's in a special box so it doesn't get light in a six-layer box, and it's not pasteurized at 70 degrees for five minutes, it's 170 degrees to stop. That's the drink of the poor, I'd like to say, because it doesn't need to be cooled down, every time it stops at home. The villager's graduation - because she travels free to God since Gyula Horn is 65 years old - she buys a carton of milk, she takes it home, she doesn't have to put it in the fridge, and she's fine. So I would ask from here, too, Mr Secretary of State and my fellow Members, that if you meet these two misguided bosses, you explain, or get them a newspaper, or ask them, don't believe me, but read it, go up to the Internet and read "UHT." Cut! UHT, this should be tolerated, and then there will be about 60 descriptions of how stupid it is to have a preservative in it. There's no preservative. Plus, 80 percent of the traffic is from that. Now the 130 HUF Czech and Slovak imports of UHT milk have reappeared in the store. Secretary of State, you can't do this without VAT fraud. I can't! It's just that I'm afraid there's a lot of bigwigs involved in this business and they won't take it. But they could very easily touch it, like they used to do oil-bending. You should put it in the five percent key, and it wouldn't be such a problem. So this other case, which simply doesn't fit into a normal person's brain, is how they can be so stupid and so misguided leaders. Or if there's no money, you have to tell me; but it's not true that there's no money, because it's really not a lot that even UHT gets in with fresh milk. The 5-percent VAT will not change consumption habits, they will continue to buy UHT milk, only not Hungarian, but VAT-free Slovak imports. The third case is a part of the bread. Our proposal is white, half brown and brown bread, and water buns and water buns. You don't have to add 5 percent, because if you want to buy the 600 forints/half-pound Graham bread, you pay the 27 percent VAT. These products can and cannot be handled by today's IT system without any problems. However, this should also be included in this package - I do not say that VAT fraud is as big here as, say, in the case of fruit and vegetables, but obviously also in the case of fruit and vegetables - and then the package will be complete, which at least covers the element of the Hungarian system that helps the sector. So I don't think it's necessary for you to wait another year with this, so you have to bring in the two or three more products that I've been talking about, and then you'll be pretty much complete. Then, of course, we can talk about reducing the VAT on child-rearing supplies, which is Jobbik's proposal, and it's a perfectly good proposal, obviously, when we're talking about child discounts and other things, but I think that's the most important thing right now is to add these three products to the fish; otherwise, fish is quite interesting, because we were thinking about freshwater fish, about this, but I think it's got to be clarified, because salmon and stuff like that shouldn't be included in the 5% VAT cycle. Thank you very much for your attention. Mr. Secretary, once again, there is no preservative in the UHT, nothing, tell that to Lazarus and the Orbán, if you please. I've told them five times, but for some reason, the information doesn't get to them. Thank you.
u2017-05-16-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech from the Jobbik Group will be followed by Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go.
u2017-05-16-53	Mr President, Dear House, After we are past a very important consumerist, and it is very important to clarify these basic concepts so that substantive debates can be opened, I have to say, on the words of Secretary of State Szatmary - that, in addition to the increase in average wages and salaries, the government would also target a kind of demographic turnaround - I must say that our support will be given to him in all of this, and also to the Group of Jobbik, of course. At the same time, it is not possible to see the hurting disproportion that this government is really raising large sums of money in the family support system, but they are being used to the greatest extent up from the upper middle class, so the government is helping precisely the least needy groups to the greatest extent, but it seems to neglect key areas that would help the middle class, the lower middle class and the poorer layers. This is exactly the kind of home creation program that we expect you to have, as the secretary of state must also see, the rents are priceless, 130-150 thousand forints in Budapest for an average size apartment, plus overhead, it's horrific, so any family tax relief can't compensate for it. You should build a mass of rent apartments to create on the supply side the quantity that leads to balance. You should intervene here, and you should not refer at all to the National Asset Manager, the people of foreign exchange, as a rental program, but rather to housing poverty, thereby reducing emigration and contributing to the positive development of Hungarian childbearing trends. But while they are not willing to admit this problem at all, it is very difficult for us to admit it, so what I am saying now seems to be a voice in the wilderness, because we are calling for a solution, but the answer does not come straight to all of this. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-16-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech will come from the group of the MSZP, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-05-16-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, I thought he was coming into Parliament today to resign and then leave this building. Today's news, Mr Secretary of State, that the National Tax and Customs Office gave up more than HUF 637 billion last year, this is more than four times more than the resignation in 2015, when the tax office released HUF 157 billion. I would like to signal to Mr Secretary of State that in 2012 this remission was only HUF 70 billion - if you can say so - we are talking about HUF 637 billion in 2016. These are resignations where companies fail, and the IRS can't recover their losses. Mr. Secretary, I'd like you to say something about this. Next thing you know, it turns out this week, not only do you not have to connect casinos to the NAV, but the custody of casinos will be transferred from the IRS to the development wallet. [[12.50]] Secretary of State, it is not enough that after 2012, the state gave up 70 billion forints of tax revenue, because that is about all that has come out of gambling taxation, but is even out of supervision. You said then that you wanted to eliminate this harmful passion, and from then on, after the intervention, the number of gamblers will decrease and the market will be managed. I remember the debate where my fellow Member, Erik Bánki, introduced one of the amendments by saying that the market had been cleaned up. By the way, this really happened because they made him a two-player, most of it was taken by Andy Vajna. Now, let's read that, not only would the casino business be tied to the tax authority, and the tens of billions of forints of theft they're doing now would finally become visible, but they're even out of control. Secretary of State, I think only these two issues would justify you leaving your seat as Secretary of State. I am very sorry that my fellow Member Kristóf Szatmáry has left. He was raving about how the taxation of families is happening in Hungary, how well the Hungarian families have benefited, and this will slowly come up slightly in birth, but they can now provide better data. I am very sorry that, although the concept of family-friendly governance has not been used very often for two years, it has again come to the fore in recent months. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, before the crisis started and during the crisis, around 96-97 thousand children were born in Hungary; in 2008 they exceeded 96 thousand. 2011 was the year, and I have said a lot in Parliament, when just over 88,000 children were born. Compared to this, 93,000 children saw the light of day by the end of the year in 2016. I would add that to date, we have not yet received an official answer as to whether, on the basis of the changed methodology of the HCSO, children born abroad will be included in this. It is true that everyone from the Hungarian Academy of Sciences to the experts claims that yes, Mr. State Secretary, it is included, but we do not get an answer to this, despite the official written or oral question, either at ministerial level or at State Secretary level. Although it turns out, we now officially know that there are 78 thousand registered children who have seen the world abroad and have Hungarian citizenship; they are included in the official data, Mr. Secretary of State. Then let us not talk about successes and let us not start by saying how good it is now, and we can see that the success of Hungarian family policy has been achieved! He didn't make it. We're doing a lot worse now than we've ever been. Secretary of State, more than 10 percent of women with childbearing potential are abroad. If you are abroad, you will not have children in Hungary. Because he is away from Hungary, because his livelihood is not guaranteed. I do not know, Mr Secretary, if you are familiar with the surveys that show that entire regions are being eliminated in disadvantaged areas. Here I am talking about Nógrád, Szabolcs, Borsod County, Hajdú-Bihar County, where people live in such difficult conditions that the first thing that happens is that they go to Budapest and its surroundings first, but in many cases they choose West Transdanubia, Győr and Sopron, or they don't even try it, and they immediately go abroad. First, the head of the family usually takes his family with him, and in many cases, we have noticed that grandparents are already going abroad. I'm just saying my own settlement, I live in a settlement of 5800 people, where, if we officially looked at the number of apartments for sale now, we'd find about 200-300 properties, and that's about all there is, Mr. Secretary. We see rural settlements with streets depopulated, streets empty and abandoned their houses. They leave him behind, now they don't want to sell him, they leave their entire fortune behind. By the way, usually these people's assets, their only asset is the apartment itself. Instead, they choose to leave it, and in the hope of a safe livelihood, there are such good job opportunities, living opportunities in Hungary, so good tax systems that they immediately flee abroad. Surveys should be looked at how children over the age of 14 today or children around the age of 18 feel, how many people want to go abroad and how many people will choose to do so. It is already possible to see how many people have fallen out of higher education, how many tens of thousands of students who are no longer submitting their admission papers to higher education institutions in Hungary, but are going to try them abroad. These young people, when they get out of this country at the age of 18, will not even try to get home, will finish their studies there, will work there, and will start a family abroad. Several times, it has been said in Parliament that Hungary is not the second largest city of Debrecen - in quotes. We can say that more Hungarians already live in England, London, than in Debrecen. This, Mr. Secretary, you don't talk about how many people went to England, how many went to Germany, how many went to Austria, and how many of the surrounding countries. Mr. Secretary, these young people don't leave because of an adventure, but because of living problems. Because they want to make a living, they want to pay their debts, and they want to support their families. Mr Secretary, it would also be good to talk about what my fellow Member said before me, about VAT, about local farmers. Secretary of State, how can local producers be destroyed in rural settlements by the municipality itself? Do you know why, Mr. Secretary? Because the local government sells vegetables, fruits, dry noodles, local products on local markets, despite the prohibition. Secretary of State, at a price that only one producer cannot compete with him. Obviously, the public worker's wages are paid by the State, the assets are paid by the State to the municipality, the raw materials are paid by the State. He basically gives you a product for what he wants. That is why local markets - just the potatoes that my fellow Member has said - have been flooded by potatoes produced by foreign and local authorities. While, let's say, in the store, 120-150 HUF is a kilo of potatoes, the potatoes sold black by the municipality can be bought for 50-60 HUF. Mr. Secretary, how can this happen? Sometimes it would be nice for me to go to the countryside and not only eat the stew and have fun in the tent at an event, but also to see what's going on in everyday life. Mr State Secretary, this tax package, which lies before us now, is about everything but the fact that the burden of those who want to work honestly would be reduced. That's not what we're talking about in this package. For what is now being introduced on the housing market, let me add two more sentences to reduce the echo. The National Bank and the government are consciously low in inflation. Therefore, bank deposits are very low. In fact, we often say that a man pays when he puts the money in the bank, who has money, puts it in the bank, but not the bank gives interest, but the man still finances the bank's operation. From now on, a certain circle, the top ten thousand, invested. What can you invest in? The housing market, the real estate market. What are you doing now? These people are getting a big discount right now. Because believe me, it's not the average person or the average person who owns more apartments that he can rent. In fact, I would say that there should also be a distinction, because I, for example, want to rent a property in Kaban, the dog does not want to live in Kaba, but I could list many other settlements. [[13.00]] [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Here, in Budapest, in Budapest, or in the vicinity of the large cities, it is observed that the prices of the property and apartment rentals have been loosened. Now, you're in favor of another round. Tell me, Mr. Secretary, why? They bought apartments, and now we're giving them discounts? And every step of the way we see it, we see this in each amendment, that they want to favour a very, very narrow layer, until they are willing to talk about the problems affecting the masses within the walls of the House. When will the minimum wage be tax-free again, Mr. Secretary? When are you going to give people a decent salary to make a living? And when will we see statistics where, if we look at the regions of the European Union, Hungary does not slide down, and we are slowly applying for the last places, Mr. State Secretary, but rather, say, we can finally see a statistical data in the following year that we jump forward, say, not taking steps, but jumping a big one to get in a better position? Mr Secretary, I would expect this, and I would very much like for you to answer my first two questions, the Andy Vajna story, and this 637 billion forints, and we would not get to forget to answer questions here again. Secretary of State, I look forward to your reply and I hope you can give me a reassuring answer. [[András Tállai: For you?]] If not, I'll wait for the Secretary of State to resign, because it's about time. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-05-16-56	Thank you, Congresswoman. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary, for two minutes.
u2017-05-16-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All I would like to ask you is, and I would like to find an answer: if we are already negotiating tax laws, then they have calculated whether, let's say, the minimum wage, the minimum wage, the minimum income, will remain net forints in the hands of the people, in line with the minimum wage gross. If not counted, I would like to help you: about two thirds, 66 percent of what remains in hand, and I say this ratio because if we compare, say, with regard to the Visegrád Four, then this seems to be 82 percent of the wages in Poland that the working people take in hand, 85 percent in Slovakia and 89 percent in the Czechs, the minimum wage in their pockets or in their hands. That's the whole point of this thing. You're gonna get lost. The tax laws are used to take away most from where the particular forints would be needed most in order to earn a decent living. You're on the side of the rich, the rich are getting richer, the poor and the fallen are being trampled. It is no coincidence that we are living in Hungary today, when, as a result of taxing, more than one third of families, 35-36 percent of them have to live their lives with money that does not exceed the minimum amount of living, and it is also a huge problem that, in relation to the increase in the minimum wage and the increase in the guaranteed minimum wage, the income positions above them have not increased as much as they should have been, they have been effectively disrupted in relation to guaranteed wages to their scale. That would have to change to be normal within the country. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-05-16-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck for two minutes, LMP.
u2017-05-16-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It must be stressed in the current amendment of the tax laws that the amendments and the Hungarian tax law are by no means the tax law of a sustainable society and a sustainable economy. I think that you can see and perceive that Hungarian society is breaking up: fewer and fewer people are getting more and more; Lőrinc Mészáros's wealth is growing by HUF 100 billion from one year to the next, while there are regions in Hungary, there are counties that are significantly below the average, for example in Szabolcs-Szatmár county, the average wage is HUF 100 thousand less than the average in Budapest. The government should have made changes, presented and introduced that would draw society apart and significantly slow this accelerating process down. The steps you've taken here with the minimum wage increase will only help very few, and this will usually not upset the average wage. Yes, you should consider and rethink the single-key personal income tax and the introduction of multi-key personal income tax. Today, more and more experts, even the majority of experts, and the overwhelming majority of parties, claim that the multi-key personal income tax system must be restored. The other problem is the breakdown of the economy, which also breaks apart. As you have just indicated, last year's wage increase resulted in the destruction of 5,000 small companies and small businesses. If the minimum wage increase is to be achieved this year, then this will certainly take on a huge scale. I do not know what you will say then, what you will say, and how you will excuse yourself by destroying most of the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, where 80% of the employees are employed in Hungary.
u2017-05-16-60	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman János Harghitai, the Christian Democratic People's Party for two minutes.
u2017-05-16-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to two arguments from two socialist Members. The Congresswoman was just talking about the fact that when we make rules here on the taxation of rental taxes on their property, we actually favour them, in Hungarian we support the rich. It's not that. The only person who can rent real estate is someone who owns real estate, and I don't dispute that. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's useless!]] But this circle has earned this income so far essentially untaxed, because it is incomprehensible to everyone who makes use of this activity. So, when we offer them smaller taxes, we hope that the budget will have tax revenue, and he will finally pay taxes. It is not about him paying taxes, and starting tomorrow, he has to pay less taxes, but we are hoping that they will finally pay taxes, so this is a load increase compared to zero. The other is that Mr Gúr made a comparison with the Visegrád countries. I approve of that, and I usually live with it, because comparing ourselves with the Visegrád countries is a little more realistic than comparing ourselves with the developed Western world. Only when we make any comparison, let us say, with the Visegrád countries, we also know - or should we know - that these Visegrád countries have not inherited a huge tax burden from the socialist world, as we have inherited, honourable Member, and we have been moaning it ever since. The Hungarian budget is also responsible for this. Another argument, which is also mentioned here, is that these countries did not have to emerge from a bankruptcy situation in 2008, and we also have to deal with it. So every time we compare, we go back to your performance, and it affects our ability to move.
u2017-05-16-62	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary, MSZP for two minutes.
u2017-05-16-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member of Harghita, do you know what you have inherited from your use of the word? Well, I'll tell you this: 3000 billion forints private pension fund savings, which have been confiscated, the most of which has been burned. We need to see, say, where we stand in terms of gold reserves, where we stand, how much the gold reserves have fallen, which gives us the country's security. You have to see how debt has increased from 20,000 billion in 2010 to 28 thousand billion forints at nominal level, let's say. And then, if you put these numbers side by side, it comes out that it's $10,000-billion-forint money that you've so-called canceled. And then show this to 10 million people. Take a picture of 10 million people, start counting, and you'll find out what amount of money you've wasted, and where it's going to come from. Where is he against all this? I'm telling you, this should be clear and clear. Just say, the European Union, if I remember correctly, has four of its 263 or 273 regions - I don't remember the exact number - in Hungary four out of the seven regions are in the last twenty. [[13.10]] I say: Four of these 263 or 273 regions in Hungary are located in these last 20 regions. If you had done something normal, useful for the country and for the benefit of the people, this would not be the reflection, this would not be the case from 2017 to 2018. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-05-16-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. [[On the signal of Anita Herringes:]] I'll tell Congresswoman Anita Heringes that the two-minute lap is over. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You can say normal!]] But I'm sure I can give you a normal word. Thank you very much. You have the floor, Congresswoman Anita Heringes.
u2017-05-16-65	Thank you very much. I pushed two minutes because I wanted to react, but I'll do it in a normal and similar time frame. I wanted to respond to my fellow Member from Harghita, who pointed back after seven years. If the Hungarian state were not to finance your hobbies from the stadium to the small railway, we would probably not be standing here today, but people would also feel that their lives have been a little better in the past. But you can't do anything but point backwards after seven years. They had the opportunity to do something for seven years, not just to finance their hobbies and friends. There is no longer a sector in Hungary where they have not created the opportunity for their buddies to get rich, to live better, but the average citizen is not living well, but there really is a shortage of labour now because they are leaving the country, because there is no future here now. Most young people don't have the vision to have an apartment, to have a car, to raise a child normally. To get him to go to college, because they've also reduced college numbers. The $3,000 billion has been abducted by you from the private pension fund. One day, accountability will come, and people will have to look into the eyes of how those who have kept their private pension fund today would be better off because they have more interest, more money. You said these pension funds would squander the pension. It's proven not to be true. You destroyed a sector, and you took, as you've been saying lately, your public finances. Something's been blown up, like a stadium, a little train, or a buddy. They'll be charged with it! A lot of young people are gonna get up and tell me where my pension fund is. You can't show it because there's no separate accounts, there's nothing. So stop pointing back and look at yourself: where's the money? Thank you.
u2017-05-16-66	Thank you very much. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. If you so request, I will give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2017-05-16-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Of course, I would like to respond to some of the questions that have been said. The first thing that Congresswoman Bangón said here, let us begin with this, with the release of a claim of HUF 637 billion. That is true, but I will draw your attention to this. The change of approach of the NAV also affects the management of claims. The philosophy of the NAV until its previous leadership was as follows. The NAV works well when it makes a lot of audit findings, reveals a lot of tax deficits, finds that it imposes a lot of fines and penalties on it, then records it, and it never comes in later. I can support this by saying that the Hungarian tax authority's revenue from the audit findings was 5% in total, the lowest in Europe. So, on the one hand, we had to do a philosophical shift, and it's still going on with the tax authority, which is not about making as many audit findings as possible, doing more checks, making statements, and then whoever did this wasn't supposed to go into the state budget, he did his job, otherwise he was very well praised. It's just that neither the state nor the tax authorities have made any difference. Then it is also a fact that the previous leaders of the previous tax authority did not dare, could not or did not want to face the question of having to do something with irrecoverable claims. Year after year, they failed to settle this, to describe it. I don't know exactly why, but this is what the current tax administration has been facing. These demands are completely irrecoverable, from many years ago. Five claims, registered ten years ago, no company, long ago liquidated, yet it's in the tax administration's records, and there's no one to collect these claims from. So a new life, a new approach, begins, and part of that is that in 2016 we had to face this description. Moreover, its criticism would be justified if it were to say that the tax revenue of the current tax authority does not go as planned, does not increase, and the opposite is true. Every year, tax revenue collected by the tax authorities is increasing, and I think that this is the basic measure of what tax revenue is, not the amount of obligations I impose, which I will then be able to collect at 5% of. As regards the taxation of casinos: the taxation of casinos will not be transferred anywhere, the tax authorities will also monitor and collect taxes from a tax point of view, the toy tax and, obviously, other taxes payable. The organisation of the gambling supervision, i.e. the official investigation and control of the tax authority, is excluded from the tax administration. Besides, it wasn't always at the IRS, it was at the national purse, but earlier, as far as I know, it was at other departments. That's gonna change now. It's gonna be done by an independent organization. Once again, the official review of gambling management is limited to tax supervision and accountability. And when this is going online, it is also not related to this issue. Moreover, gambling services are VAT-free services, and basically the organisation of online cash registers concerned VAT. I think that this question can also be decided so that in the future casinos can be onlineized, in Hungarian: connected to the tax authority. This issue is also on the agenda, and this issue will then be decided. As far as the speeches are concerned, I will obviously not be able to respond to all the speeches, but I would like to say some important questions, which may prove that the government is on the right track when it pursues its tax policy. Firstly, with regard to the extent of the central distribution, i.e. the extent of the central distribution of GDP, I think that the government has nothing to be ashamed of, because it has achieved and will be able to achieve a reduction in this issue, so overall, the rate of tax collection shows a decreasing rate of GDP. There's nothing more proof of that than the tax wedge. This is what one of the congressmen was trying to do. This decision, the reduction of contributions and social contribution tax, the reduction of the rate of personal income tax from 16% to 15% contributed to the reduction of the tax wedge, but it is also true that there is work to be done, as socialist governments left the Fidesz government with such a high tax burden in 2010 that it is very difficult, especially considering the state of the economy at the time, to start working on it. But finally, the tax wedge is falling in Hungary, and I think we can say that in a few years we will be able to reach the average of the V4 countries. [[13.20]] The same is true of the tax margin. While in the case of the tax wedge, we give up state revenue, in the event of a reduction in the tax gap, which is essentially about the amount of VAT that is not collected, this increases the revenue of public finances. We have a very serious result here, so the government has very good results in the area of the whitening of the economy. For 2013-2014, the OECD showed a 4 per cent decrease in the rate of the tax gap to 17.95 per cent. And here I also deny Zoltán Gőgös, because it will continue to decline in 2015-16, hopefully it will reach below 15 percent, the 10 percent, and the results of the EKÁER system are already included in this, even if it must be acknowledged that of course it does not work perfectly yet, so it will be able to present the expected results in the area of whitening of the economy. I can say to Mr Haughty, of course, that if I submit proposals to amend the VAT rate reduction, it is very big and very important, but it does not matter whether I do this in opposition or as pro-government, because these proposals can be submitted in opposition by tens, only you, when you were pro-government, have not submitted any of these. [[Zoltán Pride: That's not true!]] The problem isn't that you didn't submit, but the whole government didn't care about the rate of VAT reductions at the time. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Milk and bread, I'm just saying.]] Mostly with the raise, at least for those eight years. I think that the justice of the tax system shows that the number of workers in Hungary has increased significantly, from 2010 to 16 there are about 600 thousand more people currently employed; obviously, if the labour force were to be imposed here, this number would not have developed. It is also important that tax revenues, as I have already said, increase year after year, and in this case, for example, with a single-key 15 percent personal income tax key, you can bring in as much personal income tax revenue as when it was still progressive. As regards VAT, the whitening of the economy results in around 1.5 times more VAT revenue than in 2011. It is also important to say that incomes and real incomes have been growing gradually for three to four years, and this is also supported by the simplification of the tax system, the reduction of tax rates and a significant increase in family tax relief. This is also confirmed by the significant increase in retail sales and consumption. I think at government level we think that the current tax system, although there is something to be improved in it, because we agree that there are still many tax types, we agree that there is still a need to change tax controls, because the objective of tax control should be to filter out fraudulent entrepreneurs and remove them from the market and to give the field and role to honest Hungarian entrepreneurs who pay taxes properly, all right. I believe that the current tax system will strengthen competitiveness, increase the chances of businesses, increase jobs and thus strengthen the economy and strengthen Hungary. This is also the bill before us, if not to the extent, but for these purposes, so I ask that Parliament continue to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-16-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2018 will follow until its closure. Government referral T/15429. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the general debate on this proposal within a five-hour time frame. I would like to ask Mr. István Tiba to explain the time frame.
u2017-05-16-69	Dear Parliament, The time frame is divided into 103 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 56 minutes for the MSZP Group, 47 minutes for the KDNP Group, 51 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 31 minutes for the LMP Group and 12 minutes for the independent Members.
u2017-05-16-70	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2017-05-16-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2018 is to establish the legislative and regulatory frameworks that are directly or indirectly linked to the implementation of the Finance Act. The individual amendments clearly reflect that the government's policy objectives remain unchanged, focussing on maintaining economic growth, strengthening the situation of families, improving the situation of workers and promoting the competitiveness of businesses. In the bill, we propose to amend 29 laws in order to achieve these objectives. Please allow me to highlight some of the proposals for amendments. The bill concerns several aspects of the provisions of the Public Finance Act. Organisations with appropriations for the central and local government sub-scheme of public finances are facilitated by the proposal to make the commitment, in particular the commitment to spending appropriations for several years or beyond the budget year, and the related rules for financial counter-proposal clearer and clearer. The aim of the regulation is to extend the system of centralised remuneration accounting to regional development councils and the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. A further change is the fact that, in accordance with the Finance Act, the Public Finance Act states that from 2018 onwards, the revenue of the Union programmes is among the revenue of the direct revenue and expenditure of the budget. Dear House, Let me continue to say a few words, in addition to the legislation governing public finances, about other very important legislative amendments. In the law setting up next year's budget, the government proposes to broaden the benefits of people in social need. In this context, the Act on Social Administration and Social Benefits raises the minimum income limits necessary to establish the benefit of elderly people, thereby enabling more elderly people in need of social protection to qualify for benefits. We are also proposing a 5% increase in the income threshold for the use of public health care, thereby supporting expenditure related to the maintenance and restoration of the health status of persons in need of social security. Finally, the amendment of the law on the protection of children and guardianship also extends the scope of the right to regular child protection benefits, in line with the government's measures to strengthen families. We are also proposing to increase the amount of health and child care support. The amendment of the Law on the care of persons with disabilities and the amendment of certain laws allows the authority to re-establish rehabilitation care even if further rehabilitation of the person concerned is necessary in order to facilitate the integration of persons with disabilities into the labour market. [[13.30]] In addition, the proposal establishes an exceptional disability benefit system based on a single basis, providing care for people with severe health impairment who have not been able to obtain the insurance period for a long period of illness or other reasonable reasons, but who have at least half of it. The amendment of the patent protection law for inventions is intended to reduce administrative burdens for businesses, which abolishes the obligation to pay the administrative service fee in the registration and cancellation procedure for early-stage enterprises and early-stage enterprises in connection with the application of the tax base reduction. The amendment also includes provisions concerning the management structure of the National Intellectual Property Office, which aim to achieve a more effective organisational structure in line with the changes that have taken place. The economic activity, in particular foreign trade, is intended to stimulate the amendment of the Act authorising the production of military products and the provision of military technology services, aimed at simplifying and making more transparent authorisation procedures for military and military external trade activities in line with the objectives set out in the Iriny Plan. The amendment of the law on the right of association, the status of public benefit and the functioning and support of civil society organisations concerns the organisation, operation of the National Cooperation Fund, the regulation of the election of the council and the members of the college in the Civil Candidate's system, and clarifies the acquisition of the conditions for public benefit status on the basis of practical experience and raises provisions on civil information centres to a statutory level. The amendment of the law on small and medium-sized enterprises and support for their development aims to ensure full consistency with the law of the European Union. Moreover, the amendment of the law on the promotion of employment and the provision of the unemployed makes it technically possible to account for the costs of job fairs organised by government agencies in the employment part of the National Employment Fund. The bill also amends the law on the protection of the settlement image. This includes a change in the amount of administrative fines and on-the-spot fines that may be imposed for the posting of unlicensed posters. It clarifies the concept of advertising media and sets out the transitional rules governing the further fate of existing ad carrier contracts which do not comply with the proposal. The purpose of the amendment to the law on judicial enforcement is to provide the budget with sufficient resources to support the operation of a new, uniform, integrated IT system in the context of the reform of the implementing organisation system and the necessary technical conditions for each executive agency. In addition, it provides financial cover for the Hungarian Executive Faculty of the Court of Justice to carry out tasks related to the control and professional supervision of independent judicial executives, which were previously performed by the Ministry of Justice. Finally, the provisions on the guest education scholarship programme are included in the bill. Regulation has become necessary because the European integration and the Bologna process have resulted in a significant reduction in the resources of foreign educational institutions. The funding of the work of guest teachers who have completed Hungarological and Hungarian language training in such institutions is unsustainable in the current form. In the spirit of freedom of education, however, the government intends to address this situation through the guest education scholarship programme, ensuring the additional needs to maintain the guest education network. The bill sets out only the general framework for the programme and individual detailed rules will be laid down in a government decree. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, many of the provisions of the bill before the Parliament form a close union with the bill on Hungary's central budget for 2018. The individual amendments and regulatory clarifications are intended to support the responsible and effective implementation of next year's budget. That is why I ask you to discuss and accept the bill. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-05-16-72	Thank you, Secretary of State Banai. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speeches will take place in a 20-20-minute time frame by group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Mr Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-16-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have gotten used to in recent years, this spring the government has already submitted the draft budget for 2018 for the following year, the general debate of which also begins tomorrow, but most of my fellow Members are certainly aware of the content of the law on this. It is also known that the 2011 CXCV on public finances. Law 22. Paragraph 5 requires the Government to draw up a bill containing amendments necessary to lay down the basis of the draft law on the central budget, which must be submitted to Parliament in such a way that it can enter into force at least at the same time as the law on the central budget. The importance and importance of the package of laws on which the budget is based is supported most by the fact that this proposal brings consistency between next year's budget and tax laws and makes them enforceable. Accordingly, the motion before us intends to amend a number of, if I have calculated correctly, some 29 pieces of legislation in order to achieve the above mentioned objectives of harmonisation. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to mention specifically, without the need for completeness, some points of the bill on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2018 have been considered important by me. Therefore, I think that it is essential to mention the amendment of the Act on Hungary's economic stability, which aims at simplifying the domestic settlement process of sovereign debt issued in foreign currency and at the same time making the settlement process more efficient, the mechanism of the procedure used here. The amendment of the Public Finance Act and the Law on State Property aims to allow the Treasury to extend the centralised remuneration accounting system to regional development councils as well as to the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. The amendment also provides for so-called large company investment grants to be included in the above-open appropriations in the future, otherwise in accordance with the Financial Act. It is also a new element that the proposal intends to authorise the Treasury to provide, for example, information on the bodies involved in the centralised salary accounting and the employees of the majority-owned companies of the State, if requested by the members of the Government. However, exceptions are, of course, also provided for here, as this regulation does not apply, of course, to government administrations with constitutional status, to independent regulatory bodies and to the bodies under their supervision and to the staff of national security services. In fact, the amendment of the law on the protection of children and the management of guardians, I think, is another step in a series of measures taken by the government in previous years to strengthen and preserve the financial security of families. In this context, entitlement to regular child protection benefits with the associated benefits is intended to assist families in need for material reasons, as amended by the proposal. A further change has also been made in the proposal to amend the law on the promotion of employment and the provision of the unemployed, which aims to enable future job fairs organised by government agencies to be eligible from the employment fund. As the Secretary of State said earlier, it is actually a technical amendment, but I think it is a more useful amendment in this case. In the case of an amendment to the Social Administration and Social Benefits Act, the proposal includes an increase in the amount of aid for health and child care, and an extension of the range of persons in need of social assistance who have access to public health care. [[13.40]] It should also be pointed out here that the proposed bill also proposes an amendment in the case of the establishment of elderly people's benefits. Since both the income threshold and the rate of benefit for elderly persons are linked to the old-age pension minimum and since the retirement pension minimum has not increased over the past period, an increasing proportion of elderly persons in need of social security could become eligible for this type of benefit. In order to achieve the greatest number of people in need, it is proposed to increase this income limit; I believe that this is also a proposal for a change for a good purpose in any way. The amendment of the Law on the care of persons with disabilities and the amendment of certain laws also makes it possible to recapture rehabilitation care if the expert committee finds that further provision of rehabilitation services is necessary in order to ensure the permanent integration of the person concerned into the labour market. The proposal before us also includes an amendment to the patent protection law for inventions, which adapts the management structure of the National Intellectual Property Office to organisational changes, on the one hand, and also provides for the possibility of using the tax base relief in support of early-stage enterprises; on the other hand, I think that this amendment aims to further reduce the administrative burden on businesses. Finally, the purpose of the amendment of the Gambling Organisation Act and certain related laws is to share the powers and responsibilities of the Minister currently responsible for public finances in relation to gambling organisation between the Minister responsible for tax policy and the Minister responsible for State supervision of gambling organisation. According to the division of powers, the Minister responsible for tax policy will act in the future on the operation of the concept system, such as the issuing of various tenders, the publication of tenders, the conduct of tender procedures without a tender, the conclusion of concession contracts or the implementation of these contracts, while the Minister responsible for the State supervision of gambling management will carry out tasks related to the supervision of gambling management and the management of the independent gambling supervisory authority. In this sense, the supervisory body will be the so-called Gambling Supervisory Authority for entities operating a casino, a card room or organising a remote gambling game or an online casino game. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the package of measures listed above guarantees the regularity, legality of the 2018 budget, and seeks to introduce positive, practical changes and facilitations on several points, we can safely say. That is why I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect to the examination of some of the articles affected by the amendment and, following a constructive debate, to support the adoption of the bill by their votes. Thank you for your kind attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-16-74	Thank you very much, Congressman Witzmann. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party, he will become two keynote speakers. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2017-05-16-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, We've been meeting with the Secretary of State here for a few years now, and there's been a lot of heated debates between the opposition and the ruling party when we talk about tax laws, foundations, or even budgets. I would like to address three areas: the social field, the law, the defence and the economic and financial field, and then my fellow Member, Mr Heringes, will give his opinion from the rest. The main changes in the social field are: for four grants, the income limit will be increased to a minimum, allowing more people to qualify for the benefits in question; in one case, the level of benefits that can be granted; and in one case, the institution of exceptional invalidity benefits will be introduced, with which benefits may be granted to people who have not yet had sufficient insurance periods. Amendment to the 1993 Act on Social Administration and Social Benefits: the benefit of elderly persons is granted to persons over the age of retirement who have no income or do not reach the defined income limit. Based on the draft, this will be increased by 5 percent next year. Thus, in the future, 85 per cent instead of 80 per cent of the minimum pension, instead of 95 per cent of the minimum pension, instead of 95 per cent of the minimum pension, instead of 130 per cent of the minimum pension will be 135 per cent, and from 2018 the threshold of an annual pension increase will be increased, the exact amount of which will be determined in a government decree. This is in line with the previously adopted amendment that the amount of aid will also increase according to the rate of pension increase from 2018. In determining the amount of the health and child care allowance, the calculation of income on the basis of the so-called consumption unit applied to family benefits in 2006 remains. At present, the amount of benefit is the difference between the income of the family calculated on the basis of the consumption unit and the total income of the family, but up to 90 per cent of the net public wage. At the same time, the formula for the family income limit is the ratio of consumption units in the family multiplied by 92% of the minimum pension. The latter multiplier increases to 95 percent - this means that the multiplier will be HUF 27 075 instead of HUF 26 220. The supply affected about 14,000 people in 2015. 98 percent of the right holders are entitled to care on the basis of health damage. The income limit for normative public health is also increased by 5 percent. This means that if the monthly income per person in the family is less than HUF 28 500, instead of HUF 29 925 or HUF 44 175 instead of HUF 42 750 live alone, someone can receive public health care. This can only compensate for the increase in a small pension allowance every year. The normative public health care affected about 60,000 people in 2015 and there are 230,000 subjects, and at that time it was entitled to about 10 thousand people on equity basis, which has been abolished since then. Amendment of the Law on the Protection of Children and Child Welfare Administration. Even in some cases of regular child protection benefits, the income limit is increased by 5 percent. For some reason, the Secretary of State here at the foundation of the budget, this 5% has gone crazy, and I'm sure the Secretary of State will explain why. Normally, it grows from 130 per cent of the minimum pension to 135 per cent, in special cases - raised by a single parent, a child with disabilities or a learning child in the family - this increases to 145 per cent instead of 140 per cent so far. They had the opportunity to state in this explanation that this was a further step in the steps taken by the government in previous years to strengthen the financial security of families. The care of persons with disabilities and the modification of certain laws. They allow rehabilitation care to be re-established in the event of conditions, which has been possible until now only if there has been a subsequent health damage not taken into account in the previous investigation, and the institution of the exceptional invalidity benefit is introduced. In this way, it will also be possible to establish invalidity benefits for a person who has only half of the insurance periods that are otherwise expected and whose rehabilitation is not recommended, who does not carry out any work and who does not receive regular money. An applicant who holds 90 per cent of the otherwise required insurance period shall be given the benefit. The application may be submitted after the final decision has been taken in the absence of an insurance period, but only for six months. The amount of benefit is 65 per cent of the amount of benefit that can otherwise be determined. The amendment states that, in the case of improvement in the amount of benefit established in the course of the review, the exceptional invalidity benefit must not be less than the amount of benefit due for the six months preceding the review. [[13.50]] However, exceptional care can only be claimed up to a specific envelope; if it is exhausted, it will be necessary to try in the years to come. We have no information on the extent of the framework at this time, Mr. Secretary of State. Some comments on the amendments. Since the amount of aid is not increased with one exception, it can therefore be raised by amending proposals, although these would all be so-called over-expansive proposals in our view. It is interesting to stress that with these steps, the government is merely carrying out surface treatment. When we talk about the minimum pension and increases of 5%: today, in Hungary, the minimum pension is HUF 28 500, as I understand it, Mr. Secretary of State, and a 5% increase we know what it means for a family at HUF 28 500. We're talking a few hundred forints. With the introduction of an exceptional disability benefit, it is fully acknowledged, Mr State Secretary, the failure to transform the invalid system, even if it is possible that only a few of them will be given this supply method back. And since there is a framework for this amendment, competition can develop. Secretary of State, how much of this disability benefit will be on an annual basis, and why should we set a ceiling? I believe that when a person becomes disabled, it is not necessary to set upper limits, but to provide care for those who are disabled. Some comments in the economic and financial field. The most serious change is the withdrawal from the NAV of the power to monitor gambling. I have already told the Secretary of State at the Tax Laws that after 2012, they made the casino business a two-player, and now a three-player. I refer constantly to Erik Bánki, who said in a debate that the market had been cleared - well, this was perfected by the government - and before 2012, he had about HUF 70 billion in tax revenues from the casino industry, from this division of gambling to the state, and now we see that it is true that Mr. State Secretary explained why the casinos owned by Andy Vajna do not need to be connected to the NAV, and now even supervisory law will be out of there. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State why this is necessary, why this law should be amended in this way. And while we are constantly talking about corruption, here again we see that they are not making the system more transparent, but are preparing another dog. Thank you very much, Mr President, and I would like to continue my comments in the proper speech. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-16-76	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes.
u2017-05-16-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Once again, we have a proposal to amend everything we do not want the press and the public to notice. It's always the government's way of changing everything that's got something to hide, something to take care of, so that we don't find out what's going on. This is something that is felt by this law, which is the foundation of the budget. At each point, we feel the little wink that happens to their own, to base their next year's opportunities, their next year's revenues, but we're used to this government being the only thing that's more important than serving our friends. They can therefore make laws changes, whether tax, income or anything. The goal is to make sure that in the year of their last year's government, they still have a good playground for these buddy companies, friends, associations, civil society organisations. My fellow Member, Gergely Bárándy, will talk more about the right of association, public benefit status and the amendment of the Act on the operation of civil society organisations, because somehow we can see the wink and hands in the pocket, because they stick the hands in each other's pockets where they want to hide some money or provide some additional opportunity for the fake civil society organisations. That expression has been thanks to you, and has been a government-wide organization ever since you were on the government. The poster war will continue in this amendment. We're getting to the point that there's only one left, one track, only what's right for you. Obviously, there will be a faction that will talk about this longer, but I think that this poster war is a mockery of democracy, because that is not the thing they should touch, but perhaps it should create a clean path. Make a choice on a clean track, not by influencing the possibility of advertising by regulating advertising media, even the results of elections and the opportunities of others! But let's look at the employment part, because it's got really nice winks in it too, but it's just a little nappa fur thing. We wonder why, when there is a significant shortage of labour in Hungary, the provision of labour market services by a non-public employment body should be financed from the resources of the National Employment Fund. This means that the public employment body is not able to perform one of its basic tasks, or if additional labour market services are to be used, there is actually no shortage of labour. The public employment body can already use the resources of the National Employment Fund to provide information on career and labour market services. It is also a question of who the organisations will be and what their ownership background will be, who will receive financial support for the provision of labour market services. If we start from the current intentions of the government - because it should be the case - then civil society organisations performing high standards of personalised services are unlikely to receive support from the fund's resources to achieve their objectives. It can only be hoped that the resources of the National Employment Fund will fall into good hands, they will not lose their public money character, and they will actually be used to improve the situation of public workers, careers beginners and disadvantaged social groups in the labour market. Hopefully, the resources of the National Employment Fund will not be ripped off by non-state organisations providing labour market services. It is most interesting that the head of the Gambling Authority is authorised by the Government in a non-transferable capacity to set a salary different from that laid down in the Public Service Officers Act. The maximum amount of the salary may be up to 10 times the average monthly gross earnings of the national economy for the preceding year officially published by the HCSO. As we calculate, this will also give you a salary of HUF 2 million, 478 thousand, which, I think, is an unattainable amount for the average Hungarian citizen. The average Hungarian citizen does not see HUF 2 million 478,000 in one lifetime, let alone a month's salary. It is important to note here that, for example, the state has barely wanted to give the employees of the majority state-owned companies a 30% increase in wages for three years and that civil servants who have been employed, for example, in municipalities, the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the State Audit Office or even here at the Office of Parliament, have not received a salary increase since 2008, i.e. nine years ago. What I don't know is how most of the staff working here can look into their eyes, because the Commission workers who help us with the work of Members, who help us at every moment, so that we can do our job well as a secretary or a colleague from the Commission, have not grown their salary base for nine years. You also expect help from these people so that Parliament can function well, that the State Audit Office can function well, or that the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights is able to function well outside the Office of Parliament, but does not value these people enough to raise their salary. I think they should be staring down the halls because these are the people who deserve a raise. In the case of persons with disabilities, the introduction of an exceptional disability benefit is intended in part to address the difficult problems and living situations created by the Fidesz administration itself. [[14.00]] With the substantial tightening of the disability insurance system that Fidesz has taken off, countless people with disabilities have been in an almost hopelessly poor financial and livelihood situation. For many people, this has been suffering for many years that the government has been trying to alleviate somewhat by introducing regulations. But like I said, you created these situations. They're trying to relieve me now. It's just, you know, when you put these people in such a bad position, you don't have to try to ease the grip after years, you shouldn't have put them in that position. It's unfair what they did to these people. But deep down, in your conscience, you probably know that. But since we know that most of the leaders of the fellow Members and the government are not among ordinary citizens, they probably do not meet these problems, these living situations, the people who have been put in such a situation. It should be noted that the introduction of current legislation is not a novel approach. A similar system has worked since then, and I think you should create a system that was introduced by the MSZP government in this area. Because it was solidarity, and it didn't put these people in the position you put them in. I think that the law establishing the budget, which lies before us, is all about making their own friends even better, nothing else. They give them areas where more money can be taken home from the public. This is when you say very nicely that these are the amounts that somehow lose their public finances. They raise salaries in areas where they shouldn't, and where they really shouldn't, where they have helpers, they don't. You don't see the problems of the little people, the average workers. That's the biggest problem. So I think they should rethink this whole thing, the only problem is that we know that you don't have enough solidarity to think with people's heads, and put a proposal on the table that's about them, and not about yourself and your buddies. Thank you.
u2017-05-16-78	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2017-05-16-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I confess, listening to the comments of the two socialist ladies, I had this thought before, and I am going to say it, and I am going to say that it is already pointless, which I have thought about, that perhaps this is the law that we should not be negotiating on our own, but that could be negotiated together with the budgetary law. All I wanted to do was to base this on the fact that all we Members do at a time like this is describe the law. After all, it is an asset law, a law serving the budget, which simply creates the conditions for implementing the budget. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes.]] Yes! But hearing the comments of the two Members, this idea is already pointless, because I can see that as an opposition representative, you can get carried away here by your imagination and talk about everything that does not have much to do with this law. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: It is in the law.]] That's why it's worth it, so my suggestion was just a thought experiment for myself. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Bad idea.]] I no longer take myself seriously because I do not want to prevent the thought of opposition representatives from rushing. However, the fact is that the Public Finance Act, even if it does not provide for how we negotiate this law, is the requirement of the Government to submit it in an independent law. This is what the government does when it brings in this technical law in its own law, I say, without which the budget could not be implemented. That's the kind of law we're negotiating today. Today is about tomorrow, the forerunner of tomorrow, when the budget comes before us. We have already discussed the tax laws on the revenue side of the budget, now all the other laws on the basis of the implementation of the budget. And we're still gonna have an amendment to this year's budget bill, which also has an impact on tomorrow's budget bill. I'm not going to introduce twenty-nine legal places either, but I'm going to highlight some of what I think is important. First, perhaps, the year - later of the year III. a law on social administration and social security. It is the amendment of this law, which I hope can affect many people most, and may therefore be of interest, since there will be an increase in elderly people's benefits, the number of people entitled to annuity, and in this respect the income limit. The income threshold rises by about 5 percent in public health care, so this form of supply can be achieved by more people. This amendment also proposes an increase in the amount of health and child care support. I mention a law relating to economic affairs, the year XXXIII. This is a law on patent protection for inventions. Companies that will support early-stage enterprises will benefit from a tax benefit and will be registered by the National Intellectual Property Office. I think it is important, and perhaps many or more may be affected by the annual XXXI. law amending the law on the protection of children and the law on the management of guardians. Here, too, we are raising discounts, plus supply conditions, which increase the number of people who can receive these benefits. Here, in the case of socialist MEPs, there is a debate, and they think of something extremely rude when the annual XXXIII on the organisation of gambling. We are amending the law, and we are making powers clarification between the Minister responsible for tax policy and the Minister responsible for the authority responsible for the supervision of gambling, and here the Members themselves are talking about a casino business. The law, on the other hand, is that it is a law on gambling regulation in the EEA States that forces these amendments to ensure that gambling, the new authority that we create, is supervised. I agree that it should not be supervised by the Minister responsible for tax policy, because the Minister responsible for tax policy has only budgetary revenue in his view, he focuses on this, while an authority may have other tasks. So not only do I not find this separation a problem, but I think it is even more fortunate in this respect. [[István Szávay is replaced by István Ikotity in the notary seat.]] XXXIV of 2004 on small and medium-sized enterprises and support for their development Law will also be amended. This is coerced by an EU Commission regulation, we are making certain clarifications on the grounds of Annex 1 thereto, and we are increasing the number of organisations involved in the work of the Enterprise Development Council with the right to consult. What is important, and this is relevant to next year's budget, is addressing defence issues. It is a matter of great criticism that we spend little in this area, NATO expects GDP-related expectations of how much we should spend on protection. Many European countries do not comply with this. The government has decided that we will gradually increase these expenditures. I note that Hungary's security situation, the migration situation in itself, justifies increasing these costs. And if we have to increase these costs, then let's do it by creating or creating in part an industry that once, in some way, had traditions in Hungary, and that can be developed. This is related to the Irinyi plan in this respect. This amendment, which I am talking about, regulates, simplifies and makes more transparent authorisation procedures for external trade activities. The law on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning and support of civil society organisations is the 2011 law. [[14.10]] This has also been discussed by my fellow socialists, in a very different context. For the time being, all I see is the amendment of this law, and I agree that the provisions relating to the civil information centre, which were not regulated by law, are now being brought to a legal level, and, if you like, the regulatory rules for the establishment of a family, a chance building and a voluntary house, will be established. My fellow socialists mentioned it, and I agree with them in part, when they welcomed the changes in the area of rehabilitation care, but they just said that we are admitting that we are making corrections in a failed area of regulation. Let's talk honestly here too. There is no doubt that it was a very painful transformation of the system of state aid, and even more so for those who used these benefits. However, we are well aware that there has been a practice in Hungary that there has been an increase in the number of people receiving disability care or people with disability pensions compared to other countries that can be compared to us. It was an untenable situation. In my previous speech, I spoke about another law, that we did everything we could to increase the number of people who are able to pay taxes in Hungary. It was untenable that, when compared with the Czech Republic, the number of people employed was smaller than we had, looking at your period, and those who were employed did not pay taxes. This was linked to the issue of taxation or non-taxation of the minimum wage during the debate of the previous law, and this is where it goes back in practice. We had to rethink this system. These people are victims, of course, and I accept that from you. Then, when I was privatized at the time, after the change of regime, without a neck, misplaced, then, [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Anita Heringes pointing to themselves: What?]] In the absence of economic policy instruments, they saw a solution in simply helping people in the system of invalid care, and so hundreds of thousands of people fell on such benefits. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That is not true!]] Obviously, it was necessary to make a correction here. I approve of what this law does, and in this respect I even give you the truth that it is necessary to soften these rules when we re-establish the system for establishing an exceptional disability benefit, because there are some people who, for a reasonable reason, have not been able to obtain enough time for themselves to receive care for this, but if they have acquired half of it, they should not be left without any care. That's acceptable. You mentioned that. And obviously, if an authority decides that rehabilitation services are still necessary for the person concerned, the person concerned may be entitled to rehabilitation care again for the permanent integration of the person into the labour market. These amendments are the subject of this law. If you like, we'll refine the system we've created because of the people involved. In Baranya, there are many of these people, mainly because of the destruction of the mining world. If more people have access to care, it can be approved from this point of view. These are the legal places I wanted to highlight. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-16-80	Thank you very much, Congressman Harghitai. I now give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, notary.
u2017-05-16-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, For my part, I would like to focus on the establishment of the Gambling Authority, because here there were rather conflicting arguments and opinions from the pro-government and opposition side. Therefore, I would like to go through the proposals contained in the bill point by point, which, for example, modify the powers of the NAV. First of all, I would like to start with this, so in Hungarian, that the powers of the NAV, together with the powers of the Minister of National Economy, are removed from the scope of the authorisation, registration and control of the licenses and their official supervision. Before you, András Tállai sat in that chair not so long ago, who denied that the powers of the NAV in relation to gambling would change in any sense. [[Dr. János Harghitai intervenes.]] But if we read the law word by word, letter by letter, then what we need to see is that, unfortunately, the Secretary of State supervising the NAV has no idea what this proposal contains. [[Dr. János Harghitai: It's not true!]] Yes, it is difficult to imagine that there is a State Secretary in Hungary today who has no idea how the body within his jurisdiction should function anymore. And I would like to add one more thing to this: just as the amendments in relation to the NAV completely clean up the Hungarian legal order, so NAV and gambling, these two words can no longer be included in a law, they also regulate that the registers that are otherwise linked within the NAV's operational area are excluded from gambling. So, yes, the NAV will no longer have virtually any insight into what is going on and how it is going on within casinos. That's what the law says. I honestly believe that wasn't your intention, but unfortunately, this was included in the bill during codification. I very much ask the Secretary of State to help us understand this part and try to convince us otherwise, because if that is the case, as we believe it is now in the bill, it is a life-threatening thing. This means for us, and for all Hungarian taxpayers it means that there are equals and equals in Hungary. Some are fully controlled by the Hungarian tax authority, in all respects, and there is one, namely Andy Vajna, who is not, and for whom the NAV cannot have any supervisory authority. In such a way that the bill also states that the NAV cannot ask this Gambling Authority for information on individual cases. Dear Secretary of State, I'd also like to ask you, please tell us who's going to be the casino minister. And why isn't your esteemed boss qualified for this? So why can't Michael Varga do this job? Let's assume that another tax authority should be set up, as if an alternative tax authority, which can focus specifically only on the issue of gambling, but why can't this actually remain within the remit of the NGM? It is also clear from this law that this story is also out of the remit of the Minister of National Economy. Who will be the new casino minister in Hungary? Who is now responsible for this task? It also says that the employees who will work here with this new supervisory authority will be government officials. Government officials, as well as civil servants, receive their salaries on the basis of a kind of pay table, which divides them into different classes and grades based on their qualifications and the working years behind them. [[In the notary seat Dr. István Tiba will be replaced by József Attila Móring.]] Not these people! Because those who will work here will be so to speak exonerated from this pay table, let us say, and they will be governed by a maximum of ten times the average monthly gross salary. People who work as civil servants or government officials today receive about what is the average monthly gross salary. This was 263,000 forints last year. According to this paper, these people could make HUF 2 million and 630,000. First, why do NAV employees, who have already done this job, not deserve such a salary? Are they not as responsible as those who will be working here with this new Gambling Authority? Why doesn't the Hungarian civil servants and government officials at all deserve such a salary? [[14.20]] What will they really do for people who will work here in this supervisory authority? If you wanted to clean out this market, and now not in the sense that it was said here that you literally made tabula rasa - and now it is practically only one person, namely Andy Vajna, who can run casinos in Hungary, except Gábor Sima - but in the sense that you would want to whiten this entire economic segment in its entirety, you should have introduced online tax machines with immediate effect, or at least years ago. But that's not what happened, but now they're setting up an authority where, for some reason, employees get a lot more. I wonder what they're going to do. Why are they getting so much money? Maybe it wasn't to look the other way? So that they wouldn't notice what's going on in casinos? Because another reasonable explanation, to be honest, is very difficult to find. Oh, and one more thing about online machines: all Hungarian small entrepreneurs, regardless of how much their annual turnover was, how wealthy they were or how wealthy they were, had an obligation that, if required by the law, they would buy these on-line machines themselves. The Ministry has given little support to these purchases, but it is far from enough to enable these small entrepreneurs to buy them. So in Hungarian, the entrepreneur had the cost of making the Hungarian economy white, so to speak. But this authority, which will now stand up for gambling, will be the cost of Hungarian taxpayers. It will cost all of us to, well or badly, oversee the entire genre of gambling. I think that there is also quite serious injustice in this regard. As regards the various contributions, subsidies and benefits of social assistance, as a significant part of the bill, we can see - moving on to another point - that there is, yes, a 2 - maximum 5 percent increase for each point, which is rather painful compared to the fact that these percentages have been settled and raised long enough. Overall, they still set such a low limit, putting it at such a minimum level that, unfortunately, it is not suitable to tackle a serious social problem overall. I would like to mention a few more points in any case. One is that it seems to be a very interesting and technical amendment point, an amendment to a very small section of the bill on the entry and residence of third-country nationals, namely that the Minister of National Economy will issue a regulation on the basis of another mandate compared to an earlier state. But if we look at what this topic is, on which the Minister of Finance can draft a regulation, we must see that this is the issue of migrant resettlement bonds. Mr. Secretary, may I ask with deep respect that you did not say in November and December of last year, perhaps your kind minister, that you would lead this entire residency bond business on the Hungarian market, that you would eliminate this genre in one way or another? Would it not have been the fair, honest and consistent procedure if this whole paragraph, which changes this small point within itself in a technical way, had it not been removed from the Hungarian legal order? But not only did Minister Mihály Varga promise this, Minister Lázár also promised it, and even Viktor Orbán himself made statements about it. Perhaps it was only Antal Rogán, who had been very concerned about this issue, and perhaps he never once heard him drive out the migrant bonds. But that, let's say, in his case, might be understandable. I ask you to answer us here and now, and to clarify to us when, after changing this point, it will come to pass that migrant bonds will be removed from the Hungarian sovereign debt market. I was just talking about government officials and civil servants, but there is one point that is also a small technical amendment to the law, but it is more painful for certain workers. From June to July last year, government officials - under the Law on State Officials - have been replaced by state officials, and they are now receiving their salaries according to a completely different salary; yes, to a higher degree than government officials, especially civil servants. But the promise was made that government officials would also be extended to the legal relationship regulation that is currently about state officials. And this was defined in the law as from 1 January 2018. Now, this was outlined as a quasi-life model for all government officials, and it must have been a shock to read in this bill - I myself was very shocked - that you would push all this out until 1 January 2019. This, I understand, would affect about 40,000 people, and we would give this 40,000 people an average gross 30 percent salary increase. Tell me honestly why this is necessary. Why can't the government, by the way, raise the cost of investing in the water world every day with billion-dollar items, with the initial ten billion in the order of over a hundred billion, be generous with these people and try to artificially keep them underwater? Because, yes, people who receive their salaries in Hungary today on the basis of the basic salary of civil servants are practically living on a minimum wage, especially if they want to maintain a family. In this regard, we have argued with the Secretary of State several times, and you have said to my arguments that we should be glad that the government has not reduced their salary. After I ventured to claim that these wages did decrease after the 2008 IMF dictatorship. I will continue to maintain this claim, given that their purchasing power has fallen harshly. So those people, two officials who today say they want to support two children in Hungary, are practically on the minimum living, although the contract concluded by Ferenc Gyurcsány with the IMF and the EU - which, by the way, has been in the grave for a long time, since last May, a year ago, the Prime Minister said that every Hungarian family should break down a bottle of red wine and toast to getting rid of not only the IMF, but even the Treaty with the European Union - because we paid back everything. Then why are you still keeping this point in place? And what you've already promised these unfortunate workers, and you can hope for, why are these people disappointed in you again? Why are you lying to yourself, Mr. Secretary? Then I would like to mention one more point, two more, to be precise. One is the communication, reporting and information of employees working in state-owned companies, as well as of employees working in centralized bodies for the calculation of salaries. It is so beautifully written in such a poetic way in this law that these people receive personalized information from the government on all matters concerning their work, and therefore their employer can convey certain data to the government. And then they will actually receive personalized information from some members of the government. [[14.30]] This is not the communication of information to the government, especially in relation to the people who are officials in Hungary one year before the elections, so one way or another, but they are paid by the state, it seems a rather bad story. It may well arise, I fear, in these workers it is necessary to send them, so to speak, personalised information so as to warn them at the same time, what their duties are, what their obligations are, and what loyalty they owe to the current government. But, I would add, these people cannot be fooled, so with gestures that you are doing to shift their salary increases or pay arrangements by a year, in effect, because this is what the previous point I was talking about is about, because these people know exactly what they can expect from you. So with these little manipulations, which, for example, are included in this legislative proposal, I do not think they can be very influenced. Finally, I would like to say a sentence or two about the municipal image protection law, including the poster law. I myself, here in this Parliament, was one of the most combatant defenders of the law, the municipal image law, until the requirements for posters were put in, because it became clear then that the protection of the image of the settlement, which you drafted in the law, was actually a disguise, that is not really the story. In fact, it's the poster war, the destruction of political opponents, that's why this whole story was invented. Because the image of the settlement is indeed part of the poster, including the billboard, but believe me, honourable Secretary of State, that local decision-makers themselves could have decided which billboards disturb the overall picture, so to speak, which destroys the street image, the landscape, and so on, should not have been emphasized in such a way. And now, not only will this be further strengthened, but also fines, on-the-spot fines and penalties that may be imposed later will be raised in order of magnitude. Thus, local decision-makers are also told that this is a very important war for the government, in which it provides all the means for each settlement, they will ultimately be the beneficiaries, since they are collecting these fines, but only make sure that everyone is fined thoroughly. This is also the case, and it is clear from this that this whole bill was created for purely political purposes, that, on the one hand, the maximum size to which this amendment refers, based on the provisions of the Government Decree, is only smaller than the current standard size, in Hungarian: just as it will apply to all billboards in Hungary, and any extension of contracts that were concluded before the current bill came into force will be considered to be virtually a misconceptional treaty amendment, in Hungarian: by totalitarian procedure the poster market will be decapitated at the same time. To tell you the truth, I'm not a big fan of billboards, and I think it's true, especially in the outskirts. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Giant posters are destroying the landscape very harshly - I'm sorry, I'm about to finish it - but this procedure you're using is unacceptable. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-16-82	Thank you, Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, notary. I now give the floor to Erzsébet Schmuck, the mayor of the political group.
u2017-05-16-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The underlying salad law is a supplement to the budget and tax laws, which can be interpreted in conjunction with it, so it cannot be interpreted separately, but it reveals details that are important and illuminating and the other two laws are less visible. I would like to draw attention to two main groups: one is the employment measures and the other is the private supervision of the new gambling supervisory authority, Andy Vajna. First, employment social measures. When Fidesz came to power in 2010, it immediately started to reshape the state regulation of employment. They threw out everything they thought was just a substitute act, because they didn't dare to force people to work hard, force them to work, so they fell victim to soft tools such as information supply, training, and job replacement. There is still work force and its emblematic system of community service, and there remains the injured, and the work is not fully capable of humiliation and deprivation of support. Even though we told you that the devices intended as a maximum supplement are really more important, we should just do it right, not alibi out, like they did under the previous government. Even though we said forced labor was good for one thing: so that the child could see his father go to work, but nothing else. If the focus of the job with the unemployed is not to be able to stand on their own feet after several years of employment, then public work will only close and recreate the same problems as before, there will be no meaningful production work, no family, no settlement, no region. And even though we said that the humiliation of the disabled would not make it any better for anyone, the fraudsters must be filtered out, the previous bad compromise, the displacement of the unemployed into invalid care must be stopped, but the truly disabled, the truly ill, should not be harmed, you did not believe that, all invalids were treated as frauds. It seems that after six years of government, you are beginning to understand this, too, and you have also realized that those without work need more, more targeted help, so that they have taken out the tools that they have previously discarded. We are pleased that after six years of government, they realized that the unemployed should be helped with information, training, mentoring, and that they might find decent work, giving dignity to themselves and their families, besides income. Too bad, it's too bad they've been blind for six years. The same thing happened in the realization that the country does not make a living from cheap labour for multinationals, that doesn't make us any better, we need a wage increase. The problem is that if a government has to wait six years for basic recognition, that government is a bad government and its governance is harmful to the country. Where would we be if their insights were to take place in time? How many hundreds of thousands of people's lives would be easier today? How many hundreds of thousands of children's life prospects would be better because their parents have a decent job? To address concrete measures, they also allow the national employment fund resources to be used for job fairs organised by the public employment body providing labour market information and increase the income limit for entitlement to regular child protection benefits. We welcome these. They create, more precisely, a new life - hopefully - into the network of chance-making houses. These centres were set up by the Ministry of Social Affairs in all counties before 2010, where information about disadvantaged groups and opportunities for support could be obtained - now being restarted. We hope that they will not only be used to withdraw and dispose of EU funds. After six years, rehabilitation care will be repeated even if rehabilitation does not work - this will, of course, acknowledge that it does not work and that disabled people are unable to work. Exceptional disability benefits are also introduced. We have also asked for an amendment to this because many have not been entitled to benefits because of too strict conditions. Now, after six weeks, they realize they left people on the side of the road. In fact, the other package of measures could be fun if it were not tragic, as fidesz oligarchs privatize the Hungarian state, because Andy Vajna receives his own supervision. [[14.40]] In the field of gambling, the government, in a net mafia method, stole a multi-billion-dollar market in a matter of two days, based on moral reasons. Then, a little later, he handed out concessions to his own buddies, then there were no moral concerns. Andy Vajna, who has received the film area beyond the casinos, may even be able to do so, but he is now one of the central strómen in the media booking of the Orbán government. You have received tax incentives for your casinos, you do not have to pay VAT or other taxes, only the smaller toy tax that replaces them, and you can even deduct it from the concession fee. His revenues are not properly controlled, his slot machines did not have to be connected to the NAV, which is the face-attack of all other Hungarian entrepreneurs, who have to do this with all their cash registers. Now you get your own supervision; in vain, for great men, it is also due to your own state supervision. And by the way, we don't understand exactly why. The alibi work we've done so far, we think the NAV department has done a great job. By the way, what territory has its own state control, its authority, is indicative; it indicates what the state considers important. The environment, water, it's gone, melted down, demoted, that's not important. Similarly, in the ministries, education, labour and social affairs do not have a separate ministry, but propaganda does. This shows what is important for the government to do with casino, easy money, and popular debauchery, propaganda. Nevertheless, gambling could be subject to independent supervision, professional arguments, not just taxation, but also security, as well as national security. But under the circumstances, it would be difficult to take such professional arguments seriously. We are talking about simple sharing and the division and control of protection money collection areas. In addition, there are only a few standard Fidesz measures in the law. The separate budget line of Eximbank will be removed, in case the public funds allocated to trading houses and other businesses will be less transparent. They're pushing the mine's recultivation obligation again. Of course, we're not surprised at that either, because the government doesn't care about our environment. We will, on the other hand, be informed in a budget amendment, and we will ask for your support. And as a punch line, they're pushing the deadline for electronic security in public bodies. Now, when the extortion virus was sweeping the world, it's suicide, but the government was never famous for keeping up with the world, but defying it. But here, defying is not worth much, the virus doesn't care. Cyber security, digital education, development of secondary and higher education, that's what we need. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2017-05-16-84	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the German ethnic advocate Ritter Imre, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate it into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2017-05-16-85	Danke schön. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglichdes GesetzesvorschlägesNr. T/15429. uber die Begründung desungarischenHaushalts - im Zusammenhang mit den Nationalitäten übergreifende Teilen - erörtere. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the basis of the T/15429, which established the central budget for 2018. Bill No.2 concerning the parts of Hungary's nationalities. The general justification of the draft law on the establishment of Hungary's central budget for 2018 includes:. The 2011 CXCV on public finances. Act - hereinafter referred to as "Aht. - 22. Pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section 5 of the Act on the Central Budget, the Government shall draw up a bill containing the legislative amendments necessary for the establishment of the bill on the Central Budget, which it shall submit to Parliament in such a way that it enters into force at least at the same time as the law on the Central Budget. In order to fulfil this obligation of the government, the bill contains the necessary legislative amendments to the foundation of the draft law on the central budget. in order to provide a brief analysis of the extent to which the draft laws establishing the central budget law correspond to those set out in the general statement of reasons, I looked back and looked at the relevant figures of the last four years, which are the following. T/2141 submitted on 20 November 2014 The bill on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2015 was the peak if 112 laws were amended on 194 pages in a total of 407 paragraphs. T/4884 submitted on 20 May 2015. At the same time, the bill on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2016 was the thinnest, since only 28 pages, in total, only 18 laws were amended in 59 paragraphs. This was most likely due to the fact that, according to the government's decision, the submission of the draft central budget law and its underlying bill was, in our view, presented six months earlier in the spring period, instead of the end of the usual year. Thus, in the course of the preparation of just a few months, there was probably no time for more than strictly and literally only the drafting and submission of the necessary legislative amendments to lay down the draft law on the central budget, as should otherwise be the case, according to the general justification. T/10536 submitted on 3 May 2016. The bill on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2017 was again a little thicker: 63 laws were amended on 114 pages, in a total of 253 paragraphs. Finally, the T/15429, which is now on the agenda, The bill on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2018 is once again significantly slimmer, as it amends only 29 laws on 51 pages in 101. On the basis of the figures, without a more detailed analysis of the content, it is quite clear that the principle of general justification of the bill is met primarily by the bill for 2016 and now under discussion. We consider this to be a positive change from 2015 on the part of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, as the extension of the foundational bill by amending paragraphs or even laws which are not strictly used to establish the fiscal law makes the foundation package incomprehensible, and the risk that amendments prepared with insufficient care may also be included in the foundation law, and that they can be screened and discussed consistently because of the large number of amended laws and paragraphs in Parliament's proceedings. [[14.50]] I would like to support this with a specific, earlier example, to illustrate what we are thinking about from 2015. The bill on the basis of the 2015 budget 18. §2 of the Act amended by the 2011 CXCV on Public Finances. Law 10 of the Act. It added a paragraph 4a to Article 4a, according to which: "The tasks of the economic organisation, if the average annual statistical staff of the budgetary body is less than 100 persons, shall be performed by the managing body, by the local government office or, at the decision of the managing body, by another budgetary body under the control of the managing body. This provision shall not apply to the budgetary body set up as the basic activity to carry out the management tasks of the budgetary body and to a budgetary body which has an economic organisation under law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Only two months later, following the adoption of the law, it was found that this would mean that the management tasks of public education and cultural institutions taken over by the national minority authorities and local authorities in the previous two years, in the spirit of expanding cultural autonomy, would have been returned to the municipal authorities, so that the institutions would have lost their management autonomy and this provision would have been inapplicable to the office of the national minority authorities. During the amendment of this statute, simply no one thought about the national authorities and the institutions they reserved, and this point was not mentioned during the parliamentary debate and procedure. In view of the problem and its weight, at the initiative of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary, it was urgent to amend this statute a few days before its entry into force, in such a way that the offices of national minority self-governments and national government budgetary bodies were excluded from the scope of the provision. In order to prevent similar problems, it is of the utmost importance that, in the proposal establishing the central budgetary law, only the provisions of laws that are really necessary for the establishment of the central budgetary law should be amended. We are confident that the T/15429, which we have just submitted, Proposal No 1 broadly and in its entirety complies with this requirement, or at least close to it. A specific section of the foundational bill that concerns nationalities is 83. § 1 which states that the 2011 CXCV on public finances. Law 44. Paragraph 1 of Article 1 shall be replaced by the following:, In the general government and in the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, the execution of the accounting and related paying office tasks relating to expenditure to be settled on special appropriations for personal allowances, the fulfilment of the related reporting obligations to the State tax authority, including the obligation to provide a vocational training contribution, and, with the exception of the national authorities and the budgetary bodies managed by them, the fulfilment of the payment obligations based on declarations, in a centralised manner, shall be carried out solely on the basis of the centralized remuneration of the Treasury's operations and the reporting thereof. The centralised fulfilment of the reporting and payment obligations to the State tax authority shall take place by the 20th day of the month following the month concerned. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. According to the detailed justification for the amendment, the amendment makes it clear that the obligation to provide a vocational training contribution is the 2011 CLV on the contribution to vocational training and support for the development of training. The Treasury also fulfils the reporting obligation provided for in Law No 20, the deadline of which in this case is 20th of the month following the month concerned, as is the case with the other declarations. The amendment also clarifies that only payments are made by national authorities and are centralised in the performance of paying and reporting tasks. On the basis of the amendment, the accounting and reporting tasks relating to personal allowances are carried out in the case of regional development councils as well as in the case of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority by means of centralised remuneration accounting operated by the Treasury. Here I would just note, because within two lines there are several errors in writing and intellectual errors, that in the second sentence, the further clarifies... In the third sentence, the subject of the sentence was left out, and in the third sentence there was a little bit of the tata, and I'm guessing he didn't want to be a, but he wanted to be an accountant, and before the, there was also a, the letter was left out. The draft of the bill was probably at a low point here; I'm just saying, because I couldn't find so many errors in two sentences elsewhere. Not because of the deutsche punktlichkeit, but it needs to be modified. Returning to the point: the amendment extends the centralized service of the Treasury to the National Media and Infocommunications Authority and regional development councils, including the obligation to declare vocational training contributions, which do not affect us. However, contrary to what has already been done, the Treasury will continue to fulfil its reporting obligations to the National Tax and Customs Office, i.e. to take away the obligation to declare from the national authorities and the budgetary bodies managed by them, but the fulfilment of the tax obligations based on returns remains the responsibility of the national authorities and the budgetary bodies managed by them. This modified division of tasks raises a number of responsibilities, eligibility and operational issues. According to the system currently in place, the national authorities and the budgetary bodies managed by them have already been audited by the Treasury: based on the figures provided, the so-called report No 08 was sent to the national authorities in an xml file, the national authorities have verified this, if necessary and amended it, their accounting records have been supplemented, for example, with the representation tax, and the tax return to the National Tax and Customs Office was submitted electronically by the budgetary bodies of the national authorities and the national minority authorities, as well as the payment obligations set out in the submitted report have been complied with within the deadline. With the proposed amendment, the declaration will be submitted directly by the Treasury to the NAV, but the fulfilment of the payment obligations laid down in the declaration will remain the responsibility of the national authorities and the budgetary bodies they maintain. This means, in procedural terms, that the national authorities and the budgetary bodies they maintain should transfer the right to tax returns to the Treasury, and they would no longer have any impact on the declaration. There are specific questions in this regard. First, what happens if a false statement from the Treasury is filed? People work there too, they can make mistakes. As a consequence, the national authorities and the institutions they maintain will therefore pay the NAV a wrong amount. Who's responsible for this? Secondly, what happens if the Treasury does not submit the declaration on time for any reason, which means that the national authorities and the budgetary bodies they maintain will not even have the opportunity to comply with their tax payment obligation within the deadline, because they will not have any data? Therefore, the NAV will clearly deal with the national authorities and the budgetary bodies they maintain, since their tax liability is to pay the payments by the deadline. [[15.00]] Thirdly, 20th of the month following the month concerned is also the deadline for the submission of a tax return, and 20th of the month following the month concerned is also the deadline for the submission of tax returns for the national authorities and the budgetary bodies they maintain. When will the Treasury provide the deadline report of 20, which is the basis for the payment, to the national authorities and their reserved budgetary bodies? Fourthly, if the Treasury submits the declaration, then the national authorities and the budgetary bodies they maintain must provide the data necessary to supplement the declaration from the data they record, such as representational taxes, to the Treasury so that the Treasury can incorporate it into the tax return. By what date, how will this information be provided to the Treasury? Last but not least: in the case of a NAV audit, where and how will this take place, what financial and legal responsibility will be borne by the Treasury, as well as by the national authorities and the budgetary bodies they maintain after possible numerical findings? I would like to point out that, in the short time since the submission of the bill, it has been possible, on the basis of discussions in the minority self-government and institutional sphere, that we are not fundamentally opposed to the fact that, in addition to the payroll, the Treasury should also carry out the reporting obligations relating to them. However, if the sanctions and consequences of the breach of the relevant detailed rules and of the detailed rules are not fully regulated - of course in advance in consultation with the national authorities and the budgetary bodies they maintain and in agreement with them - then the national authorities and the budgetary bodies they maintain may once again be put in a vulnerable position, which may be put at risk by this situation. Therefore, we stress that we consider this amendment to be eligible from the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary only if the detailed rules necessary for implementation are regulated in a manner agreed with the national authorities, guaranteed, with their agreement and in any circumstances before the entry into force of the law. The 100. According to its provisions of entry into force, this is Article 83. § would enter into force on the day following the publication of the law. This does not provide for the possibility of drawing up, negotiating and implementing rules under Article 83. With the entry into force of § 83, it is proposed to bring this into force at the same time. the entry into force of § 1 January 2018 but not less than 1 September 2017. We respectfully ask that we believe that the substantive reflection, consideration and amendment of our legitimate comments be taken into account. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2017-05-16-86	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, They didn't sign up for a two-minute speech. Other speeches will follow. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP.
u2017-05-16-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr János Harghitai began his speech by saying that it is, in fact, a technical law. How good it would be if that were the case, and we could agree with him, we could really spare ourselves and Parliament a lot of debate. Imre Ritter, in whose speech it appeared that he and the committee had studied this law in such detail that they had even noticed grammatical errors in it, I was surprised to say that there were almost only provisions in this which were really necessary for the foundation of the central budget. I was surprised to hear that, because we believe that this is precisely a salad law that lies before us, which contains a number of elements, perhaps in most of them, that have nothing to do with the foundation of the central budget. My fellow Members mentioned a great deal of it during the speech by the lead speaker, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and the women representing Anita Heringes, and they also referred to what I would like to say a little bit more about, and this is the section on civil society organisations. The Venice Commission has hardly set foot out of here, which has been in Hungary because the European Commission and the Council of Europe have both seen that the government's action against civilians is unacceptable; the law that is being examined has not yet been passed by the Parliament, but there is a sly way of hiding in this package of laws a new set of pieces which, on the one hand, want to put real civilians in a more disadvantage and, on the other hand, want to straighten out the path of civilians who are only those who are in their name, let me refer to them as false civilians who are wanted to be created by the government, by the government, let me say: and/or the government with money. Let's see what the specific provisions are about civilians in this law. Firstly, the role of the civil information centres will be expanded. You can argue that they are good or not good, that they exist. They were created by civil law adopted in 2011. But I have to say that it was not yet possible to discover a sanda intention here, because the task of these was to assist civil society organisations operating in their operational areas, such as administrative tasks, legal advice, accounting advice and so on. However, the expansion of tasks that we have just submitted is about something quite different, about the inverse of what caused them to be created under the law. The role now presented will be extended by providing information on the activities of civil society organisations operating in the given supply area to the colleges of the National Cooperation Fund. If someone is not fully aware of this and it is clear what this National Cooperation Fund is, then let me give you two examples. Its members are, of course, only and exclusively members delegated by the governing parties. In part, the Ministry itself delegates or the Minister himself delegates, and the other part is elected by two parliamentary committees. Of course, the election did not include the election of candidates proposed by the opposition; all the pro-government candidates who were elected to this college were elected. And what's the punch line, they're not gonna figure out who's in charge of all this, his president, his first man, the COF leader, László Csizmadia. He is the one leading the National Cooperation Fund, which now needs to be informed about the way civil society organisations operate. Many people are reminded of the snitch system of the '50s when they had to give mood reports to the higher authorities. Well, that's what we're talking about here. And to make this not enough, the relationship between the minister and the institutions, so these centres, will be strengthened even further, since the title of the civil information centre is donated by the minister and supervised by the minister. The other great innovation of this law is the creation of family, chance building and voluntary houses. This has already been discussed by my fellow Member at the LMP, by the way. It's very interesting that they're about to redefine this institution right now. [[15.10]] Of course, this also prepares and facilitates the support and filling of government civil society organisations with money. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] This is basically what we are talking about, and I would like to quote the text here: - Civil society organisations also contribute to the implementation of the strategic objectives of the government in the field of chance creation, voluntary and family affairs at local level. To this end, the Minister for Family Policy operates family, chance-building and voluntary houses. By the way, he pays for them, so the state will provide for their financing in Hungarian. Let me ask you this: wouldn't it have been easier to set up another government office to carry out these tasks? Why do we have to disguise these as civilians? Probably because, Mr. Secretary, you follow the same pattern as in Putini Russia. They create civilians who are clearly connected to the government and loyal to them, trying, if you will, to breathe the air away from the real civilians. These fake civil society organisations will try to find their way to real civil society organisations. That's all it is. However, intervention in the civil sector is still not over here in this law. Rules for the election of members of the Board of the National Cooperation Fund and its colleges may be laid down in a ministerial decree instead of the law. But why? To make it easier to manipulate? Because the most fundamental difference between the law and the ministerial decree is that the law is created in public, it becomes law and enters into force in public, while the decree can be created in such a quiet, sly way. At the same time, the amendment also reduces conflict of interest rules for members. Not all, but only the relevant college would have a conflict of interest. But let's keep going, and that's probably the most outrageous thing. In the case of grants to civil society organisations, it will be possible to derogate freely from the provisions of the Public Finance Act if the task to be supported has been determined by a government decision. Now this is only in the case of statutory tasks. Secretary of State, why is that? Please answer that. This is about the fact that the government's targeted and tasked citation, of course, does not allow any legal provision to limit the public spending of false civil society organisations. And what an interesting coincidence this is, Mr. Secretary of State, what an interesting coincidence: it has just come out that the CÖF received more than HUF 500 million from MVM. It's been a long time to sue him, but it worked. Over 500 million HUF of funding! Well, now we have this new law, we won't need the MVM, we won't need to sue, because here, without the intervention of the MVM, the state will come up with a task, assign a public resource to it, and then fill the pockets of the CÖF. And all the rest, I suppose, of course, of the Centre for Fundamental Rights, and of all the other governments, the number of which will undoubtedly expand if it is such an extremely good deal to be a loyal NGO to the government. Well, that's what I'm saying again, like the Russian puppy model. There was a book from which I quoted it, and it is written precisely in that it was actually invented in Russia in this respect as a real wooden iron circle. They've named it, it's got an international name, it's GONGO. NGOs are civil society organisations, aren't they? GONGOs - right, GO as government - are NGOs created and operated by the government, the iron circle of wood. So the government creates civil society organisations for itself and then says that they represent the views of civil society and make decisions based on this. They're playing this circus. Now you're gonna start playing the same circus. And finally, another amendment to the law. The amendment deletes - and this is extremely surprising - the reference to the glass pocket law from the civil law. Why, Mr. Secretary? Doesn't transparency matter now? Or isn't the transparency of the civil society close to the government interesting? Because you are about to adopt a series of civil society laws, which are now to be voted on and which, by the way, cause a series of scandals and protests across Europe, in order to ensure that these civil society organisations are supposed to be transparent. Now, tell me, on what principle do you come here, that the reference to the law on glass pockets applied for transparency is being deleted? ! Who is financed from abroad, is it important to have transparency, who is financed by you and not by you? I get it, but at least try to put some principle aside. I think that if we go through all of this, it is not just a question of what these provisions are doing in the framework of the laws that underpin the budget. Because I understand that you do not dare to introduce this in a separate law, but I will tell you, Mr Secretary, that the Venice Commission knows exactly what it is. You know that, because at our meeting, we told them exactly that it was true. They were a little surprised at the fact that when the government is trying to negotiate on how to establish acceptable rules for civil society according to European standards, they slylyly submit such a bill. They were a little surprised. They'll probably have to talk about it in their next negotiations. But there is a much bigger problem here as to what is caused by the provisions that are currently listed. It causes us to go down the road where they destroy, brand, destroy the real civil sphere, and build their own. This is quite simply outrageous, it is nothing more than a last, vile, autocratic effort, which I believe must not only be spoken of, but I hope that civil society and Hungarian society will also object to this, not only orally, but on the streets. For our part, therefore, we will certainly do everything we can. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-16-88	Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group.
u2017-05-16-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The truth is that my colleague Gergely Bárándy, professor of law, said very nicely, wrapped in silk, the fascistoid effort on the part of the governing parties in the area of nationalisation and domination of the civil sphere. So, what we saw yesterday in the ad tax case, the first time they threatened me with a 9 percent ad tax, now they're legislating a 7.5 percent that practically destroys the government's independent media. It's a fascistoid move. I don't know what Minister of State Tállai got you here yesterday to apologize for fascistizing the government; I don't fascistise the government, I say this to this power step, that this is what XX says. In the history of the century, fascist governments made it. So I'd like to say... [[For the intervention of Ander Balázs:]] That is a sovereign thing somewhere, but if you don't mind my better fellow Member, I wouldn't identify myself with this solution, because none of it is right. [[15.20]] When freedom of speech is restricted by free market processes, it is unacceptable, and when they want to disguise the civil sphere, disguise it as a law establishing a budget, they want to make it impossible, it is equally unacceptable. So these are the authoritarian efforts to make legislation to ensure that no one can question your power, but that no opinion other than the government can be formulated. I'm asking you to move away from this. Thank you.
u2017-05-16-90	Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, István Józsa, MSZP Group, will now be speaking in a normal time frame.
u2017-05-16-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I had hoped that there would be other contributors, but the truth is that the laws that want to establish the budget are wide-ranging enough to talk about not only the atrocities of the civil sphere. The most serious change, according to the proposal, is the withdrawal of the power to monitor gambling from the National Tax and Customs Office. It is not known whether such an area that brings or does not bring tens of billions of dollars worth of revenue - because of the fact that one or two ten billion of Andy Vajna's tax payments have already been released by law - so that such an area providing substantial budgetary revenue or mecenary activity, such as gambling, will carry out its tasks under what circumstances, since this will be decided by the government once by a regulation; this gives rise to suspicion. So one of these, which specifically affects transparency - because this is virtually without production activity only the revenue from rights and gambling rights falling into the government - would be good if transparency could be consistently found in the control. In any case, employees of the new organization, who will monitor gambling activities, will benefit greatly. Since the institution fund of civil servants has not changed since 2009 - the last time the Bajnai government raised a teeny bit on it - in their case, i.e. those who will work in this gambling supervision, the maximum monthly gross value could be HUF 2.5 million. I know the Bible saying that you shouldn't tie your mouth to a printer jackass, so I understand that anyone who works with that kind of money wants to be well paid by the government, but there would still be other areas. I myself suggested why, for example, at the National Atomic Energy Office, the government had not thought of applying a similar exceptional rule to the wages of nuclear inspectors. Forgive me for stealing your gambling money there is a law, for it is permitted by law that Andy Vajna does not pay his taxes, and then extra payment is made to those who control how he steals the money legally. Besides, isn't nuclear safety worth providing the workers with exceptional rules? I don't want to say numbers right now, but over the last year, five highly qualified nuclear inspectors have left the country and gone to the West, because there's a better way to secure their earnings and livelihoods. It would be very good for the government to have a sense of proportion in solving important and indispensable things. It must be very important for someone to make 2.5 million forints in gambling supervision, which is not yet established, but how nuclear supervision works is essential because it affects basic nuclear safety. So I have a problem not only with what's written in this bill, but also with what's not in it and incomprehensiblely not in it. There is a high probability that those in the interests of Andy Vajna will put their hands on this supervision, and those in charge there will put their own people of trust, and that they will not later say that there is personalised legislation, that they will raise their money in advance. In the context of the comments on the content, I would also like to point out that the legislative proposal on which the central budget for 2018 is based contains measures that aim to improve job-seekers and job-seekers' chances of finding a job compared to the current situation. This is a very good priority goal, the MSZP also supports that these people receive more serious support. However, the question arises when there is a significant shortage of labour in Hungary, why should the provision of labour market services not provided by the public employment body be financed from the resources of the National Employment Fund. Does that mean the public employment body is unable to perform one of its basic tasks? Or if you have to use additional labour market services, is there really no shortage of workers? These are conflicting facts, conflicting processes. The public employment body can already use the resources of the National Employment Fund to provide information on career and labour market services. It is also a question of who will be the organisations and their ownership background, who will receive financial support for the provision of this labour market service, which should actually be provided by the current public bodies. If we start from the government's current intentions, civil society organisations performing high-quality personalised services are unlikely to receive support from the Fund's resources to achieve their objectives. It's another mistake. It can only be hoped that the resources of the National Employment Fund will fall into good hands, that they will not lose their public finances, as certain fund funds, and that they will actually be used to improve the labour market situation of the public workers, careers beginners and disadvantaged social groups. We very much hope that the resources of the National Employment Fund will not be looted by non-state organisations providing labour market services. I would like to note here that, for example, for three years, the government has barely wanted to give the employers of the majority state-owned companies 30 percent wage increases and that civil servants who have been employed, for example, in the municipalities, such as the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the State Audit Office or the Office of Parliament, have not received a salary increase since 2008, i.e. nine years ago. We believe that this should be dealt with, and that we should be thinking about such laws, which form the basis of the budget, for whom no one seems to think. So, in summing up its economic and financial dimension, I have already talked about the laws on the basis of which the budget is based, the Gambling Inspectorate. Another interesting, more than interesting aspect of the proposal is that the legal limitations of Eximbank's activities continue to relax, making it clear that Eximbank can invest not only in a domestic but also in a foreign venture capital fund, as a member. [[15.30]] So the fact that Eximbank, which by its basic purpose should serve to increase the export activity of domestic companies, especially for SMEs, somehow gave Andy Vajna a loan of HUF 12 billion to buy TV2 and make it close to the government. I do not wish to talk about the deterioration that this has resulted in, now in the preparatory laws. It shows itself that TV2's quality has fallen to an incredible degree, especially the quality of the news. He became the mouthpiece of a government propaganda that less and less people are curious about. But to shape the Eximbank's scope of activity by law, which is now just as good for some friends, it's more than outrageous. In the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Act, the business community who and what they qualify as small and medium-sized enterprises in the future will be amended. Well, that may not bring about an appropriate change to domestic SMEs. For small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary are less characterised by this direction of change. I see that my fellow Members still have a serious point to make, so I would like to reserve my further comment for the remaining timeframe. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-05-16-92	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes for a two-minute speech.
u2017-05-16-93	On the one hand, I considered it very important that it should be said that our faction finds it outrageous that the implementation of the provisions on the physical and electronic protection of classified information has been delayed since 2011. It is difficult to judge, isn't it, what we see now about the Paks site, exactly what the amendment of the regulations on site safety certificates is about. It is difficult to define this because you promised to set up a monitoring committee to oversee Paks II investment. As a Paks girl, I think I'd like to say that as a congressman, I'd like to see what the Paks can expect. I will always be in Paks' best interest in this matter, that will never be a question. But in order for me to be able to vote on these issues, I need to see what data is included in this investment. With regard to ratings, you've been encrypting everything people want to know for 30 years. As a congressman, I have a lot of questions. Right now, they won't let me ask these questions, or even if I can ask them, I can't get answers. You promised in Parliament's walls that this committee could be set up and that Erik Bánki would sweep it off the table every time at the Economic Committee meeting. There are two options: either the minister who promised to do so is weak, or because of the infighting, he will not be allowed to control this investment. As a Paksi, I can say that it is in the best interests of all decks that Pakson be the first to have security and transparency in this investment. That is why we demand that there be a committee that oversees this investment so that professionals can be calm. Thank you.
u2017-05-16-94	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Statement by Mr László Teleki, MSZP Group. You have the floor.
u2017-05-16-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think that there is no Roma society in this foundation law. The government has adopted the national Roma strategy with a very large wound, but I do not see how it will be implemented. Secretary of State, you are a serious man, I always thought you were, then I think you should be shown, at least in the budget, how you will be involved, for example, in the eradication of Roma settlements, which we have talked about many times. Because there's only one line in the foundation that's gonna make this a reality at some level. And the other line, I think, is very important that you have also adopted the European Roma Framework Strategy, and it does not fit in with this budget line or the submission. Therefore, I would like to ask you, Mr State Secretary, how do you think that you will adopt different strategies, domestic and international strategies, and that you will not allocate resources to them, resources from which you can actually work. Therefore, I would consider it very important that once such strategies have been adopted, they should also allocate resources to them. I would like to go further: you say that there is a need for minority self-governments. We do not see the coverage that could create a sufficiently operational system for national authorities to ensure the independence of national authorities. But I am talking primarily about Roma self-governments. You have also created local and regional authorities, i.e. county authorities, but you have not thought that they should be operated. There is no owner of the regional authorities, no owner of the county Roma minority self-governments, but I would say the municipalities of all 13 nationalities. We don't see how they'll be able to function. I would like to say, Mr State Secretary, that the county and regional minority authorities that have wanted to work for several years and to help the social class for which they have been created, for which they have chosen a profession, cannot function. As a result, I ask how the local, county and national systems intend to maintain funding that is now invisible. Moreover, civil society has already been mentioned, but I would also like to underline that Roma civil society organisations are completely impossible. There's only one civil society organization today that can get a source, and it's called Lungo Drom. You are biased, politically biased, and this is also absolutely visible in the budget. Why do they want to keep pissing off Florian Farkas when the other NGOs are starving to death? Therefore, Mr State Secretary, domestic nationality must be a responsible and complete national issue, not used as a political instrument, to give support to those who are not with us, and to those who are not with us, we will make support impossible. This is therefore unacceptable in the next budget for the following year. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-16-96	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group, submitted a two-minute speech. I give you the floor.
u2017-05-16-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member, Teleki, concluded by saying how and in what form the civilian sector is being attacked. There's simply no other way to put this, just by attacking the Russian pattern. I see you've learned how and how to do this. They create a multitude of their own camouflage civil organizations, while they are trying to stamp on existing, real civilians. However, it is no different from what my fellow Member mentioned earlier, my fellow Member, Mr Józsa, in terms of gambling supervision, with regard to the withdrawal of the right to supervision. Here, the withdrawal of a driver's license from the NAV, he said, at least it gives rise to suspicion; I say this in a slightly different way; this is clearly a suspicion of what you want to do. In terms of wages, this is not random for the order of HUF 2.5 million. After all, you have also created wage conditions of HUF 5 million for the financial sector and even classified the Hungarian State Railway as part of the financial sector. Because there was a man there as management, as a leader, who was kind to you, at your pleasure. And let us not forget the public funds that, we know, have lost their public finances in recent years. On the issue of funding within the National Employment Fund, Mr State Secretary, it would be okay if you still answered my fellow Member's questions in the debate. Because while not answering these questions, we have to register a reduction of more than HUF 100 billion in the National Employment Fund from 2017 to 2018. It would be nice to know how, how you think about it. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-05-16-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, In a normal time frame, Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély asked for the floor, MSZP Group. I'll give you the floor in the time frame available.
u2017-05-16-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A few more sentences on the settlement policy. It also opens up a shocking and enormous attack on the government that they are about to correct the authorisation provisions for settlement government bonds. This legislative error, of course, can be mocked in itself, is a strong rhetorical exaggeration, but the legality of the bond issue that has taken place in the last year is also questionable. [[15.40]] In addition, the correction shows that they have no idea how to draw the settlement government bond out of the Hungarian legal system. I hope that you will also have some thoughts on this, too, Mr State Secretary. Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you a question. Don't you find it humiliating that your own pro-government representatives are not here in this debate? We are talking about the foundation of next year's budget, and it will remain on the part of the ruling party for three or four hours, if I count correctly. Isn't that humiliating? We opposition politicians are trying to express our opinion here within the prescribed timeframe, not even from the benches of the Fidesz-KDNP, apart from one or two Members - because I can see that Congressman Hargitai is still here - to comment at all. It'd be better if they didn't file it. Why? ! We give our opinions, you don't even give their opinions, because they don't have any opinions. [[Gyula Vantara: To what? About what? Anita Herring: About what? This!]] Congressman, that is why you may not even know which law we are talking about here, because you just had to come in here so that these benches wouldn't be empty. Two more sentences for Congressman Harghitai. I am pleased that you have admitted, Congressman, that there is a need to intervene in the care of invalids. I'm just sorry they're doing this before the election. It's transparent, Congressman. Why now? And, Congressman, I would like to ask you on behalf of these people, they couldn't prove 10 percent during the reviews that there was fraud in these matters. 10 percent and to date no reviews have been carried out. They have put these people in a terrible position, in humiliating situations, and I hope that at some point, we will find out how many victims of this transformation have been in Hungary. They committed a terrible crime by changing the entire disability care system at the time, essentially shutting it down, and now, before the elections, they're doing grace, and they're saying that, well, it wasn't quite right, and then, in some way, let's just give these people something. I think, Mr Secretary, I hope that you will answer a number of our questions. I'm glad that at least you sat through this debate and listened to it. I always appreciate that from year to year, but I think that you could use a sign to the pro-government representatives, somewhere you could say that this is not okay. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-05-16-100	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members whether they still wish to speak within the given timeframe. [[No one's reporting. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, who wishes to respond as rapporteur to what has been said in the debate. [[Gyula Vantara: Answer! You gotta watch it now. Anita Herringes will take her place as her own representative. Gyula Vantara: Where, where? Is your lunch ready?]]
u2017-05-16-101	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to begin by saying that I absolutely agree with the comments made by Mr János Hargitai, either on behalf of Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, or on behalf of Mr Imre Ritter, who is actually talking about the direction of next year's budget, the direction of economic policy and the measures necessary for the implementation of this budgetary economic policy, if I quote correctly, the debate is about supplies. If we interpret next year's budget proposal in this way, we need to see that the direction of economic policy, the direction of the budget for next year and the direction of the bill on which the budget is based is that it improves the income situation of people living from work, we do not call the budget for next year into vain the budget of those living from work; those who receive pensions or pension-like benefits, at least the real value of benefits, and even the payment of the pension premium next year; and as a third category, people who are unable to work, do not receive old-age benefits, receive other social benefits, can move forward in proportion to the performance of the economy. If I mention this threefold categorization, I must repeat the sentences of those who have spoken before me, according to which the bill on which the budget is based before the Honourable Parliament allows the provision of additional resources in a number of areas, whether in the area of persons who have been injured or who have received other social benefits. These were also highlighted by Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, but for the sake of completeness, allow me to highlight several items from these benefits. Older people's benefits are rising, non-single, single people under 75 years of age, single people over 75 years of age, there is a clear increase in the various categories of care premiums, a 5% increase in the proposal before the Honourable Parliament, an increase in the amount of health and child care support, an increase in the number of people receiving normative public health care, an increase in the income limit. It will be possible to introduce an exceptional disability benefit if the Parliament accepts the Government's proposal and it will be possible to re-establish rehabilitation care. So what I see is that it contains the budget bill and the underlying law, I repeat, the improvement of the situation of people living in work, families, the provision of care for the disabled or the elderly, and the provision of additional resources in the area of health-damaged people. From this point of view, I must say that it is difficult for me to interpret the words of Congresswoman Anita Heringes that the basic proposal before the Honourable Parliament is only for the service of friends. [[Anita Herring: Civilians?]] wink for friends. [[Anita Beringes: Civilians, C.E.F.?]] Excuse me if I wish to be factual and repeat the legislative amendments to which Mrs Bangóné also referred, and parallel it with the statements made by the congresswoman, we must look for the government's supporters among the broad sections of the population. [[Anita Heringes: If you say it in the debate, then you can respond and I will explain!]] Of course, I do not argue with this that broad sections of the population support government policy. The next topic is the question of posters. Here, I would like to reiterate what we have on the part of the government in the written documents as a justification for the bill and what I have mentioned orally. Here, it lays down penalties for posters posted illegally... [[Dr. István Józsa: We are changing the legislation!]] Mr President, the proposal before you, I repeat, defines the possibility of fines for posters posted illegally. [[Dr. István Józsa: Who writes the law? Anita Herring: Oh, my God! Just don't modify me with retroactive effect.]]
u2017-05-16-102	Fellow Members! Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. I don't remember Mr. Secretary interrupting when you spoke. [[Anita Beringes: But he doesn't argue with us, it's hard!]] Congresswoman, I ask you with respect, as the Secretary of State has listened to you, please be so kind as to hear me out. It's not a conversation. Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for your understanding.
u2017-05-16-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Continuing with the suggestions, if I may, I will try to make a substantive answer to the points made by the Member. Indeed, the Employment Fund will be able to finance expenditure on job fairs. I think this is a positive step, and I agree with the opinions that the main problem of the Hungarian economy at present is not that the number of unemployed people is at a level like five to six years ago, it is not, as we can see, a problem in many European countries where unemployment is above 10 per cent or even more than 20 per cent, but, basically, it is now a challenge, the task of providing skilled workers. We need to see where the labour market reserves are in the Hungarian economy. I think that the otherwise successful public work that creates a bridge from unemployment to employment in the competition sphere is, for example, an area from which the needs of the competition sphere can still be met. For example, employment for these people is also supported by job fairs, the expenditure of which, on the basis of the proposal, we believe, should be financed from the Employment Fund. What is this if it is not an employment policy measure? I must argue with Mr Nándor Gúr's statement. He himself referred to as a criticism that the expenditure of the Employment Fund would be reduced. [[15.50]] Let's look at what expenses are falling and how much money the state is spending. Expenditure on unemployment, which is a decisive item in the Employment Fund, is indeed falling to God because employment is expanding. Let us look at how much EU funds and domestic resources are being spent on active employment policy instruments by the state. So when we analyse the labour market, I think that it is basically employment figures, unemployment figures, real earnings developments, and these are indicators that show the success of a government economic policy, not how expenditure on unemployment, for example, develops. There's an increase in expenditure here, I think it might be showing the negative processes. [[István Ikotity is replaced by Loránt Hegedűs in the notary seat.]] Wage increases. Several people have mentioned the issue of wage increases, including Mrs Anita Heringes and Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. It has been pointed out that next year's budget bill for government officials does not include a wage increase, and it has also been said that the bill setting up the budget for this House is, however, on 1 January 2019 as the proposed date for raising wages for government officials. I would like to highlight one very important point. Next year's budget is not only called on the budget of those who live from work because, contrary to what I believe is said by the representative woman, it gives significant resources to the so-called small people - and here I would remind you that after a significant increase in the minimum wage and the minimum wage this year, we are counting 12 percent and 8 percent, 12 percent in terms of the minimum wage, 8 percent in terms of the minimum wage, as a reminder: after 25 percent and 15 percent this year's increase - but we also call this proposal for a budget for those who live from work next year, because in the public sector, where the wage is determined by law, 550,000 of the 700 000 employees are now receiving wage increases. So when we appreciate how many people in the public sector have already received a wage increase, I suggest that we not only look at the smaller number where, no doubt, there has been no increase in wages in recent years, but also see a much larger number of people, where there have been very significant increases of 30, 40 or 50 per cent, where appropriate. The government's policy is clear in this respect, and Mrs Loránt Hegedűs is also my answer: wage increases in the public sector are taking place step by step, in line with the growth of economic growth. I repeat that, taking into account the number of next year's budget proposals for employment of around 700 thousand main budgetary bodies, a very significant increase in wages has been or will be made for around 550 thousand people. And if the economic expansion we saw the other day with a very positive figure will continue in 2018 and 2019, then even those still in the minority areas where no wage increases were made can experience the positive effects of economic growth on wages. Finally, I have to note in parentheses that, in addition to gross wages, we also look at how net earnings have evolved and how the reduction of the personal income tax rate or the extension of the family benefit, which is also included in the 2018 budget, can lead to an increase in real earnings, in addition to gross income being unchanged. There was a lot of debate about gambling supervision. Firstly, I would like to note that as many countries as there are solutions in this area, and I would also like to note that the practice of gambling supervision in Hungary has also set an example of the operation of an independent gambling monitoring organisation and, as we have seen in recent years, the functioning of supervision within the framework of the national tax authority. So I think that there is no one excellent solution. The government, with the proposed step, I believe that gambling supervision is not weakened, but strengthened, as an independent organization will perform the activities instead of the independent department currently in the NAV, but still the department's framework. As far as the responsibility within the government is concerned, the responsibility of the Ministry of National Economy and the National Tax Office under it will not cease. If honourable Members read the justification for the bill, it is a long enough list of areas where the tax authority will remain supervised and in which areas the Ministry of Development will be responsible. I must also say that we are talking about gambling concession revenues, and we also need to see that the professional supervision of concession revenues falls under the Ministry of National Development; for example, the mine concession to mention only one area. So when there is a change in the task, it is not on the basis of a completely new idea that this organizational change is taking place - I repeat, international and domestic examples can be seen - and it is not just a matter of redefining an area, but, I repeat, the professional responsibility for concession matters is currently with the Ministry of National Development. Of course, I hope that this organisational change will improve supervision, so the government does not plan any changes that would involve a more relaxed review and more relaxed supervision than before. As regards the wages of those employed in the Gambling Inspectorate, a very significant wage development was launched by the National Tax and Customs Office employees under a separate law, according to their special legal status. With the separation of the gaming supervision department, employees will become government officials, but it is not an objective; the government does not aim to reduce the wages of those employed in the excellent department, the independent organisational unit, and the motion submitted therefore allows, as honourable Members have mentioned, to be hijacked in relation to the salary of government officials. If you bring forward the draft budget bill for next year, you won't find any extra budget expenditure in it. It is not about creating independent supervision that the wages of employees are multiplied by government; I repeat, the fundamental goal is that the level of wages can be maintained at the same level as we are experiencing now. Moreover, strengthening supervision could undoubtedly include, where appropriate, an increase in the number of staff. It's a matter of settlement bonds. The proposal submitted is a technical clarification. The legislative space to which reference is made has already become empty because of an earlier amendment. So if the honourable Members look at the explanatory statement, it is clear that this is a technical element and I confirm that Hungary is a sure country based not only on the value judgment of market investors, but also on the value judgment of large credit rating agencies, the financing of public debt is much more stable than in 2010, which includes the assets available and the cost of financing. Therefore, the financing technique of the settlement policy is not necessary. In the case of settlement bonds submitted by 31 March, there was still room for this funding, of course these applications need to be processed, so there is another processing process, but again, the government's decision is clear: there is no need to apply this financing technique in the future. Allow me, notary, to debate what you said; if I recall correctly, you said a migrant bond. There is, however, a very significant distinction between buyers of migration and settlement bonds. Settlement bonds can be purchased by those who have controlled, controlled access to the bond. In addition to significant investment in the money market, these persons can also make real investments in the economy. So in this respect, I am debating the link between the migrant issue and the financing technique of public debt. [[16.00]] As far as civil law is concerned, very strong wordings have been applied by MEPs Gergely Bárándy and István Józsa. I do not see any part of the proposal that would show the character of the last despicable, autocratic effort - I quote - or, a fascistoid step. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's right, that's right!]] I therefore ask honourable Members to look at the provisions contained in the proposed legislation. [[Dr. István Józsa: Terrible! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: See!]] This provision allows local civil society organisations to have a greater say in the use of the National Cooperation Fund, which includes the funding of civil society organisations. I have to note here that this bill does relate to next year's budget, because the appropriation of the National Cooperation Fund, which is otherwise defined under a separate law, is a part of next year's budget every year, and - I repeat - in addition to the fact that this appropriation is part of next year's budget, the 29 proposals submitted are in many cases directly and, in many cases, indirectly linked to next year's draft budget law, and for these reasons, the amendment of the civil law is also linked to next year's budget proposal. Please take a look at the rules on the use of resources from the National Cooperation Fund, for example: in it you cannot see such authoritarian efforts at all, and even involving these local civil society organisations in decision-making, I think that the decision-making base for the use of the National Cooperation Fund for next year's budget and subsequent years will be broadened. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] As regards Eximbank, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck indicated that according to the bill, a number would be removed from the budget law. It's not like that. I think there's been a misunderstanding. Next year's draft budget law, which is before the Honourable Parliament, Eximbank's interest settlement amount is included on a special appropriation in the chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, if I recall correctly, at HUF 25,6 billion. So, I repeat, there is no amendment to the Eximbank Act that an earlier edition would be swept into a large budget allocation. On Roma issues, MEP László Teleki made proposals. Here again, I would like to quote the comments that the underlying bill and the draft budget law for 2018 should be monitored as a unit. If we do so and look at the expenditure on social inclusion in the EMMI chapter of next year's draft budget law, then we will see that a number of Roma appropriations are included in the bill and the overall total amount of these is increasing. Allow me to give you a list. The Roma College network is included in a specific appropriation, as is the support of Roma culture, programmes to promote socio-economic, territorial disadvantage settlement, the funding of professional colleges, coordination of catch-up policy, Roma scholarships, the Multifunctional Nationality - Roma Methodology, Education and Culture Centre and the Budapest Roma Education and Culture Centre. In addition, national authorities, including Roma self-governments, could see a significant increase in resources after 2014, and I recall that resources tripled - [[For signal:]] I am pleased to see that the ethnic advocates confirm this with nod. Therefore, in addition to the appropriations that I have listed, funding for national authorities has been increased and, if not at the same rate as in previous years, but also in the 2018 draft budget law, we see an increase in funding for national minority subsidies. If that's what you're talking about, allow me to say to Congressman Ritter, Mr Spokesman - excuse me. - I should like to thank you for your comments on the need to discuss previous budgetary planning and the underlying legislative proposals in this regard, as this strengthens predictability. And let me offer you a special consultation on the responsibilities of the system for the payment of salaries, the Treasury and the NAV, as the spokesperson has asked a number of questions. For the honourable Parliament, I would like to state that the intention of the Government's proposals, whether with regard to the calculation of salaries or the structure of tax returns, is to ease and reduce the administration of both organisations and individuals, so there is no proposal that would make the lives of national governments more difficult. And if there is a question about the practical implementation of the proposals, I repeat, I hope that we can clarify them in a specific discussion. An amendment to the SME Act has been proposed. I repeat to Mr Józsa that this is an amendment of a legislative harmonisation nature. With this, I think I have also run through the comments, and I can finish my sentences in the hope that the vast majority of the 29 legislative proposals have not been criticised; I draw from this that the majority of the motions are agreed by the honourable Parliament. And I propose that the motion be adopted in the hope that it can help the objectives of the 2018 budget, so that if Parliament adopts the grounding bill and next year's budget law, in addition to substantial economic growth, those living from work and those who, in the absence of work, receive an old-age pension and various social benefits will also have additional resources to preserve the stability of public finances and the reduction of public debt. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-16-104	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, On a point of order, Ms Anita Heringes, MSZP Group asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-16-105	Thank you very much. I'd like to comment on a case-by-case basis. I would ask the President to order a trial break, because there is no pro-government Member and State Secretary in this Chamber who would like to take part in the debate, even though there would have been a debate on the law establishing the 2018 budget. My fellow Members have left their entire timeframe, and our fellow Member who wanted to speak from the ranks of the Fidesz-KDNP has certainly not arrived. That is why I ask that we take a trial break to give them the opportunity to take part in the debate. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-16-106	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Of course, I do not regard this statement as a point of order, because on the part of the government, the Secretary of State is present. [[Anita Heringes: But it wasn't in the debate! Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: But you are not participating in the debate!]] the wallet is represented and the fellow Members are present. And allow me to run the meeting for now, and since the meeting is house-to-house, we will continue our work. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President János Latorcai wishes to speak in the upcoming general debate. In the event of opposition by the representatives of the Vice-President, the sitting may be held in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that Vice-President János Latorcai should be able to chair the meeting during the further discussion of the proposal. Please vote by raising your hands. Thank you. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2016 XC on Hungary's central budget for 2017. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/15427. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[16.10]] I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Secretary of State, please.
u2017-05-16-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In terms of predictability and planning, the 2017 budget was adopted by the Parliament last spring. This allowed all stakeholders, Hungarian families, businesses and state institutions to prepare in good time, seeing their next year's margin of manoeuvre six months earlier. Since the adoption of the budget last year, the Hungarian economy has been performing better than expected and continues to grow dynamically along a stable and sustainable path. I think that this finding is supported by the first quarter of GDP that we have learned today, which shows a 4.1 percent increase in expectations and professional forecasts, and I think it supports the government's 4.1 percent growth projections for this year as a whole. Hungary's economic performance, disciplined fiscal policy and the downward trend in public debt are recognised by large credit rating agencies as well, thus Hungarian sovereign debt was raised to the category recommended for investment in 2016 and, in practice, by phase delay, but they followed the value judgment of market investors. Based on these positive results, and in order to strengthen the growth capacity of the Hungarian economy, last November the government initiated the conclusion of a six-year wage agreement at the permanent consultation forum of the competition sphere and the government. On the one hand, the agreement aimed at raising wages and reducing taxes, which could be called a milestone, allowed for an increase in the minimum wage and the minimum wage for skilled workers, i.e. the guaranteed minimum wage, which was the most significant since the change of regime, and on the other hand, a significant reduction in the employer's burden and a single digitisation of the corporate tax rate. For the first time since last year's adoption of the budget and its entry into force in January this year, we can talk about an amendment aimed at transferring the fiscal effects of the already mentioned wage agreement, as well as providing resources for government decisions in the meantime due to the performance of the economy and the additional revenues resulting from one-off items. On this basis, the government proposes to fund improvements to strengthen the country's competitiveness, as well as health, education and social extra expenditure, while maintaining budgetary stability. In this respect, I should also point out that the changes in expenditure and revenue appropriations in the bill are null and void, so that they do not affect the cash flow balance, do not affect the development of public debt, and that the deficit-to-GDP deficit target of 2.4 per cent according to the EU methodology can be met safely with the amendments. Dear Parliament, For the long-term growth of the Hungarian economy, strengthening national industry, infrastructure development and increasing the competitiveness and export capacity of domestic companies are of particular importance. Allow me to explain in the following the points of the bill that can also serve as a driving force for balanced and sustainable economic growth. Support for the process of preparing public investment is linked to the HUF 25 billion funding provided to the Investment Preparation Fund. Bringing the supplier development programme to life to encourage the involvement of small and medium-sized enterprises in the supply network of international large companies. The government intends to promote the development of national industry by renewing the vehicle park of the Millennium underground railway initiated as part of the industrial strategy plan named after János Irinyi. For this purpose, the bill contains HUF 1 billion. At the same time, we intend to provide HUF 50 billion for the renovation and modernisation of national road networks, in particular for those motorways and side roads whose condition justifies the intervention. Dear House, The strengthening of the Hungarian economy will allow additional budgetary resources to be involved in the development of the health, education and social sectors. In the budget, the bill establishes a special appropriation to carry out the children's meals of local authorities in a budget of HUF 74 billion. We would also like to emphasise the objective of the free or preferential food supply of children, while decoupling the funding of additional social and welfare tasks of municipal authorities. Thanks to effective economic policy, it will be possible to pay a pension premium for the first time this year if the statutory rate of economic growth and the balance objective of public finances are met. The financing of the pension premium and the pension increase at the beginning of the year means the provision of a total of HUF 50 billion. We therefore see that both the statutory conditions will be met in terms of the payment of the pension premium, that the expansion of the economy will be above 3.5 percent, and that the deficit-to-GDP target of 2.4 percent, as defined by the Honourable Parliament, can be maintained on the basis of our calculations and projections. The amendment includes the joint development of the Hungarian Reformed Church Bethesda Children's Hospital and the Buda Irgalisrendi Hospital with HUF 2.7 billion; it includes the financing of investments to renew the outpatient health home in Kőbánya, providing outpatient care, and the use of HUF 350 million for the construction of the new pediatric clinic in Pestszentimre. After health care, the government also proposes the development of education infrastructure. The bill provides HUF 500 million for the 2017 phase of the full renovation of the Márton Áron Szakcollege building via Kunigunda, HUF 1 billion 85 million for the purchase of a dorm building by János Sélye University in Révkomárom and HUF 1 billion 153 million for the creation of a special development centre for the labour market in Vác. However, the bill provides an opportunity to improve the development of crèches, which are important for demographic and job creation, and to improve the funding situation of crèches. Thus, once again, the government intends to provide additional funding for daycare, in addition to covering the available resources. The success and increasing popularity of Hungarian films in recent years justify the further 2.4 billion HUF support for the film sector, ensuring the wider diversity of genres. I think that the success of government efforts here is shown by international recognition. Dear Parliament, In addition to these items, the Government will also propose to strengthen the country's defence capability. It is recalled that, according to a separate government decision, expenditure on defence-related GDP increases year by year, so this year's budget already contains a significant surplus compared to 2016, above these surpluses, the Government proposes to the Parliament a proposal for the renewal of the Mi-21 type combat helicopters of the defence to provide a source of HUF 10 billion. The operational programme of national cohesion, the Unlimited! programme, is available for the further development and operation of HUF 641 million. The aim of the program is to ensure that students of Hungarian schools can visit the Hungarian population areas of neighbouring countries with as much public support as possible, gaining personal experience of foreign Hungarians. So this surplus is in the bill before you now, showing the source insurance over the original numbers. Finally, the submitted bill also includes an increase of HUF 66 billion in the amount of the National Defence Fund and extraordinary government measures in order to cover the unexpected expenditure incurred during the year. Dear Parliament, In keeping with the legal guarantees, the Government sent the draft amendment to the Central Budget Act to the Fiscal Council for an opinion. The body considered the bill to be credible, enforceable and well-founded. The thoroughness of the planning proves that there was no fundamental objection that the Council would have challenged the submission of the bill. The Council confirms that the changes in appropriations increase the total revenue and expenditure of the central budget in equal amounts, i.e. null and void. [[16.20]] The government debt rule and the 2.4 percent deficit target of public finances according to the EU methodology can be met with higher expenditure. In addition to the Council, the State Audit Office also gave a similar assessment of the bill submitted by the Government. Allow me to express my thanks to the Budget Council and the State Audit Office for their work in monitoring the bill. Mr President, Dear Parliament, By amending your 2017 budget, the government proposes to provide additional resources to a number of policy areas, while not increasing deficit or debt. The measures serve the interests of the Hungarian population, the Hungarian families, so it cannot speak, I think it is neither a professional nor a social policy argument in favour of ensuring that the budget does not provide the necessary coverage for these objectives. The coverage does not come from a tax increase, but is ensured by a larger expansion of the economy compared to the previous one, in parallel with an increase in the number of employees. On this basis, I would ask you to discuss the proposed legislation and to support it later. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-16-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Vantara, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[Dr. István Józsa: I told you he would tell you!]]
u2017-05-16-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, In line with previous years' practice, the government will always adopt next spring's budget for predictability and sound preparedness. This was no different last year, and fortunately we can report very positive budgetary developments for 2017. Thanks to the good performance of the economy, more than expected resources are available to enable the budget to be amended not to the detriment of people but to provide additional resources. This amendment preserves this stability, but also responds to the demands and processes that have arisen since adoption, as the Secretary of State said in his introduction. The changes in expenditure and revenue appropriations included in the amendment of the Act are null and void, do not affect the cash flow deficit and do not increase public debt as a result of the balance-neutrality of the changes. The surplus on the expenditure side is covered by higher tax revenues, I say slowly, excise and personal income tax and levies, which trigger many disputes, but also by a higher level of paid morale, falling tax revenues, favourable economic processes in 2017. In addition, additional revenue for the budget will be provided to the farmers! Forint 162 billion of the land sold this year, as well. As we have heard in the Minister of State's exposé, the bill amending the 2017 Budget Act contains amendments. Allow me to draw attention to some of them and also to some of the amendments. The first is an additional HUF 50 billion increase in the renovation and modernisation of the national road network. It has also been said, but an increase of HUF 25 billion in the budget of the Investment Preparatory Fund and an additional HUF 10 billion in equipment renovation of the Ministry of Defence has to be underlined. It is also noteworthy and should be mentioned to implement the first sub-programme of the supplier action plan, with an increase in appropriations for HUF 6 billion and general support for the operation of local authorities. This is HUF 2.8 billion for tasks related to the protection of settlement image. The Reformed Church's Children's Hospital and the joint development of the Mercy Hospital included an extra HUF 2.7 billion, as well as an increase of HUF 2.4 billion in support of the National Film Fund. I would like to point out that for János Sélye University in Révkomárom there is a HUF 1.1 billion item for the purchase of the dormitory building, as well as a HUF 1 billion additional resource for the development of the Irinyi plan's millennial underground railway line production. It is also worth noting that the increase of HUF 1.3 billion already provided for the ordering of war tombs in the First World War is an additional HUF 625 million and, as has already been said, an increase of HUF 66 billion to increase the budget for the National Defence Fund and the extraordinary government measures. The main findings of the Budget Council were mentioned in the Secretary of State's exposé. I would also like to underline this, and this is a quote from the Council's opinion: The Council considers that the deficit target of 2.4 per cent of GDP in accordance with the EU methodology for public finances in 2017 can be met together with changes in revenue and expenditure appropriations. The Council also supports the fact that the bill increases the reserve appropriations and considers it important that the appropriations will be met or fulfilled under control, in line with the plans. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I think that all of the amendments to the 2017 budget listed above serve a public purpose which is eligible, and I therefore ask my fellow Members to support this motion, this amendment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-16-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-16-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that the members of the Fidesz Members who were previously only in attendance are also involved in the debate. [[Dr. János Harghitai: You can't be seen every day either!]] Actually, this is what my colleague Anita Heringes's point of order was about. [[Dr. János Harghitai: We don't see you every day either!]] that if someone comes into Parliament and has such a number, so less than five, it would be good to have 95 minutes of debate, because on one side they insist that the debate is on a time-frame and on the other side they do not take the opportunity to debate. [[Dr. János Harghitai: Reasons!]] This clearly shows that they only want to restrict the opposition. Is that the democratic sentiment, fellow Members? ! So when I say that there are fascistoid proposals in front of this House, it also applies to behaviour, because it is a narrow thinking that does not like to argue, can't stand the debate and doesn't want to deal with Parliament's speech. It's hard to talk, as we've heard before. But you can talk about this budget very easily. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán introduced the two-year budget in 2000 as a force for a few small farmers to vote for it, but for a few years he has seen it as a miracle drug in the spirit of his miracle weapon, competitiveness and predictability. [[Dr. János Harghitai: That's right!]] tax and budgetary laws to be adopted in spring. True, since then, tax experts have been unable to keep track of which version of the tax becomes current and how many times they will need to be touched in the course of the year. Because why is it predictable what the government is fooling Parliament now, when it still knows a little about next year's processes? Then, in December, he starts charging more taxes. It is ironic that the Ministry apparatus, as a good student in the justification for every new proposal, highlights the stability and predictability of the early adopted financial package, and then asks for its partly adjusted amendment. It is difficult to come together from the professional side to bring in prematurely, when they do not know certain data from last year, not at all from this year, and they have no idea from next year, so in the spirit of stability they will bring a bill here, and then they will ask the House to change, come on, come on. [[16.30]] Not to mention that the changes in the tax system in December, although the reduction of the social contribution known as the employer's contribution alone caused a loss of 100 billion in revenue, and this is a noticeable reduction in burden, so far it has not included this hundred, it seems that the budget, which the Ministry of National Economy has not denied, has so far had rather fictitious figures in the budget. Minister Mihály Varga said at the end of last year that the government saw economic growth of 4.1 percent at the end of last year. However, this year's budget law adopted last summer was planned to increase by 3.1 percent. The question is that if the Minister knew that this increase would be 4.1 percent at the end of the year, then why is the budget only now being revised accordingly. So there is such a normal budget system that by the end of the previous year, the year can be planned well enough, as you can see here. At the end of last year, Minister announced 4.1 percent. If the budget law is adopted then, it should not be touched in this sense. The very late amendment of the budget is also interesting because in January we, the representatives of the Socialist Party, asked whether there would be a pension premium this year, because this pension increase is very low, which was announced at the time, and according to the Minister, such a femoral increase would be expected. We were then answered, which is also stated in the law, that, under the legislation in force, the pension premium can be paid if the expected economic growth, i.e. according to the law, exceeds 3.5 per cent and the balance objective of the public finances, as set out in the Central Budget Act, is also met. If these conditions are met, the payment of the pension premium shall be decided by the government. As the Prime Minister promised Auntie Bozsi, she would raise it if the numbers showed it. [[Dr. János Harghitai: We will!]] So it's not the government, he's personally. At the end of the year, however, it was not considered timely to talk about this, although the plans were already in place. So maybe it's just a simple holding back. It seems that after just a few months, it is now timely to talk about what the Minister spoke about last December. According to professional calculations, inflation is expected to be much higher than 1.6 percent, so in November you can add a pension supplement of HUF 12,000 to pensions if you look at the inflation expectations of 2.6 percent of the Hungarian National Bank. With this 4.1 percent increase, approx. Pensioners can get a pension rise of 12,000 HUF through the pension premium system. It's like 10,000 forints again that I'm a good king, and I give 10 thousand forints to everyone. It's unworthy of me to reach into the pocket like this, so I'll give it to you. So it is better if pensions are raised in a normative form in a way guaranteed by law, let us say, according to the Swiss indexation. It is included in the amendment to hold on to the pension fund's spending by HUF 20 million, to increase the equity-based pension increase by HUF 20 million, so that HUF 720 million will be available and the so-called one-time grant budget will be increased by HUF 50 million, so that HUF 500 million is now available. All of this is because from 1 January 2017, the ceiling for the grant of the exceptional pension increase increased from HUF 75,000 to HUF 85 thousand, from HUF 85 thousand to HUF 90 thousand in the power of the Director-General, which also leads to an increase in the number of applications received. Congressmen, let's face it, that's not enough. When the Rogán Ministry receives 5 billion forints for state repressive propaganda, do they dare to write 20 million forints and 500 million forints for the equity of the national pension budget? This isn't right. This isn't right. The amendment to this year's budget also includes an increase in expenditure appropriations for retirement pensions of around HUF 26 billion. However, its detailed explanation is not included in the proposal; it is likely to be linked to other growth changes. Although it has been accepted long before that the day care of children will be transformed from this year onwards, and a new multi-component nursery will come, but if I am disappointed about this, my fellow Member Ildikó Borbély will be eloquent in speaking to you, which I wish you to take seriously. Ladies and gentlemen, This budget planning system doesn't add up. Thus, laws are passed when they do not yet have data; when they already know something, they are announced, but they are presented to the House six months later. [[Dr. János Harghitai: Very embarrassing!]] So what I can tell you is that you've messed this whole thing up, and it's not for predictability. In addition to the fact that what has been described here is, in terms of content, eligible in substance. Not in summary, it's very little, sweet little, it should be more, except for, say, the money they're trying to steal here at the propaganda industry and other places. Of course, Mr Secretary of State knows nothing about these things, and he doesn't need to know. Thank you for the floor. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2017-05-16-112	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, another lead speaker of the MSZP Group, in the remaining five-minute timeframe.
u2017-05-16-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, in his chair, he said that we are talking about a disciplined fiscal policy. I think that when we tried to debate a few minutes ago on the basis of the 2018 budget, although it is very difficult to argue that if the debate is one-sided, then it is interesting to change the 2017 budget afterwards. So, one year isn't closed yet, but we're talking about next year's budget, and that's been going on for years, isn't it? My fellow Member, Józsa, brought up day care in kindergarten. Yes, the reason we see here is that an additional grant has been allocated, 800 million forints, because they voted in favour of a law to create a mini-cradle system, but they found that no budgetary resources were provided for it, and as the law states, what conditions should be met in these small settlements, though they realized that these settlements with financial problems would not be able to create the mini-cradle required by the law. It should be said here that the cradle care fee was introduced by the Fidesz-KDNP government, and if we look at the data, one of the biggest problems to date is to look at women's work, to go back after having children, that this form of service is not available in Hungary today in order to give their children to a nursery. I think we're seeing another rushing law that we've come up with, and after five or six months, we're finding out that the government hasn't given us enough resources. I would add that it will be difficult enough for the municipalities to prepare to create these institutions. I would like to ask the Secretary of State what if, as required by law, the family number indicates, say, in a small settlement, that he would like to send his child to a nursery, and that the settlement itself cannot solve the problem, because it was late that they noticed that they had not provided enough resources for it. [[16.40]] My second question to the Secretary of State is disciplined budgetary policy. As I understand it, last week the news exploded that from 1 January 2016 until the beginning of 2017 the churches were rewarded with 118 billion extra money by transferring the money and having to cover it with certain papers. Secretary of State, what a disciplined budget policy we are talking about if we secretly wire 100 billion forints without anyone knowing about it and then cover it with papers. [[Dr. János Harghitai: Government decision!]] Or, let's say, can existing investments be paid up to twice? This cannot happen in a disciplined budget policy, Mr. Secretary of State. Or we see that the government can spend more and more money without having to vote for the Hungarian Parliament, but instead they think of something and they can spend tens of billions or hundreds of billions of forints from budgetary sources without having to be approved by anyone outside the government. [[Dr. János Harghitai: Insurance provided.]] Mr. Secretary. I think that we really cannot talk about disciplined fiscal policy. If this is how 118 billion forints can be transferred to a sector, if we keep seeing that only one or two people or a few people decide on serious ten billion forints, then I can say again, as with the foundation law, that it is unnecessary for the Secretary of State to come in here and for us. Although this is already practiced by pro-government politicians because they don't even go to parliament. [[Dr. János Harghitai: Here we are!]] You don't have to do your job, you don't have to, you don't have to do this clowning. [[Dr. János Harghitai: Listen to all these...]] Or we'll just come in like this, as opposition politicians, and we'll have a good talk with ourselves. My fellow Member, Mr Heringes, was right, the debate should be about having an actual debate. If we ask questions, we will try to resolve them, Mr Secretary, if we can't really argue with pro-government politicians, so that we can at least argue with you. Don't give us your opinion in the closet, which we can no longer respond to. If the secretary of state now tells me what happened about the 118 billion forints transferred to the church, then let me be able to respond to it and not say it in the closet when we are really just sitting here, and we can only say it out loud after the President has told us that we are not complying with the house rules. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That is what my fellow Member, Congresswoman, has drawn attention to, and we would like it to be in the house rules. [[The president's ringing again.]] We could work, as President Fat constantly warns opposition politicians. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-05-16-114	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-16-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, This is the bill where socialist representatives are in great trouble, but they are doing their job as opposition representatives, and they are trying to smear the white one to the white, but this is not going to work. Why is it wrong, I ask the question again, if, in the spirit of transparency and planning, we have broken off with the practice that we have practiced for a long time, and your government is always saying that we will adopt an annual budget before Christmas, which will take effect within weeks? Why is it wrong that we have broken off with this practice, and in preparing the budget, we are now able to accept at least six months ahead of the budget that will take effect in six months' time? [[Anita Herring: Because it's a fairy tale! Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Because by the time it is introduced...]] This budget, which we are talking about amending here, was adopted in mid-2016. Since then, three quarters of years have passed, the amendment is justified, but it is fundamentally and decisively positive. There's only one restriction, there's only one step backwards in this bill, and we can only account for positive things here. Why do you want to lie to the public of this country, honourable socialist Members? Just today, when the news reports say that the growth of the economy in the first quarter was 4.1 percent. It will be a difficult spiritual achievement for you to explain again [[Dr. István Józsa: EU money!]] Why it's fake, why it's illegal, why it's temporary, why it's not permanent, and so on. Because by reading the press articles, I can see that this process has already started in this respect. But let's talk about the great things in this bill. Let's look at the revenue side, the revenue side of the 2017 budget adopted three quarters of a year ago, and why this is welcome for us. The first thing I need to record here is that when we planned this budget in the spirit of careful planning, we calculated that the increase would be 3.1 percent in 2017. Now, both the Minister and the Secretary of State say that we can think even more bravely, because we think that this increase can go up to 4.1 percent. But that the increase will be more than 3.5 percent, we certainly believe that, so the pensioners who listen to or watch this debate [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: You cannot watch!]] So at least the information gets to them, now we can say [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: Where do they look?]] that what we have previously suspected is now certain under the law that, for the first time in many years, we will pay a pension premium to pensioners at the end of 2017. We also hope that this will also be the case in 2018. So, Congressman Józsa, I don't know how you put it, because this is the second time you've brought fascist thinking here. [[Dr. István Józsa: Fasistoid...]] For me, it is simply incomprehensible to fascism in the context of fiscal financial laws [[Dr. István Józsa: Suppression!]] and seeing oppression. As you said, in November we will throw these sums at the pensioners. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's what you said!]] No, we're gonna pay them a pension premium, so... [[Dr. István Józsa: This is the socialist law! We made this law! You've got to admit it.]] As in the spirit of predictability, this is our legal obligation. Because we see that inflation figures and growth figures are developing in such a way that the Hungarian economy will be able to pay the pension premium to pensioners. Why this is so tragic for you, which is how it should be said, that we're going to throw it at the pensioners... [[Dr. István Józsa: Not enough, that's why!]] Oh, it's not enough. Oh, that's not enough. But at least don't say that because you're contradicting yourself if that's not enough. Then you wouldn't be talking about throwing it at pensioners, but say it's a pleasure that the Hungarian economy is able to do this today, but we hope there will be more, because then I agree with you. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Why now? 'Cause there's gonna be elections next year! That's why. Before the elections, you will only be able to do so before the elections.]] Let's talk about some of the other sad things you've taken care of, uh, the wage agreement. Six years in advance, after the adoption of the law, he made a wage agreement with the government. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Who did they agree with?]] the economic sector, i.e. employers' and employees' representatives. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Ah, sure!]] We are able to increase the minimum wage at a strong pace [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Yes!]] And the mid-graduating minimum wage, 15 percent and 25 percent. We're doing these transfers in the law. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: How much will you take home, Congressman?]] Once again, this agreement would not be a government imperative, because then it would not be an agreement, but a dictatorship, but an agreement with those social partners, we will accept it when the law has lived, when we have already adopted the law, and now we are leading these positive things through this law. At the same time, the government agreed with these actors to reduce their burden, as it is obviously a burden for them somewhere, that under the agreement they must increase the minimum wage or the minimum wage of a diploma, their contributions, but the subsequent contributions will be reduced by the government. It was then that the government agreed with them that the corporate tax rate would also be reduced, with a flat rate of 9%. This is where I return to the debate that could have developed between me and Mr Z. Carpathian, representative of Jobbik, if he were here. Now I'm going to answer what he suggested. I said in relation to the tax laws that the Hungarian government was not always charged with the extra taxes - we were forced to collect extra taxes, as you did - so we did not charge the families. We gave benefits to families, mainly through the child protection discount, and we collected additional taxes in the VAT area, although there is also a withdrawal, as we have already reduced a lot of items to 5% of basic foods. So I thought that we were in favour of families and that we were charging additional taxes on other income owners, multinationals, financial sectors and trade chains through separate taxes. [[16.50]] As a counterintelligence, what a lie it is that I should be ashamed of myself, that we are not in favour of the multinationals, because we have reduced corporate tax. I don't argue with that, but there's a sequence. There was an economic crisis, and you bankrupted the country. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] That's when we brought the taxes we brought in. [[Dr. István Józsa: Mr. President, this is a lie!]] And when we put the Hungarian economy back on its feet, we were able to reduce corporate tax in order to increase competitiveness. In Europe, we need to reduce the minimum corporate tax because we are hoping for extra jobs by paying small and large people less corporate taxes, honourable fellow Members and honourable better Member. I did not wish to conceal this fact even when I said it was true that we were burdened with additional burdens on other income owners at the time, but certainly not on families and certainly not on families raising children. I have been talking about the revenue side's additional opportunities for a relatively long time, which we are now passing through in the 2017 budget. The revenue surplus also gives us the opportunity to make corrections on the expenditure side. This draft law sets out additional opportunities for the expenditure side. It does so, of course, by not giving up for a moment on our stable and predictable fiscal policy, which we have been pursuing for two cycles, which the Fiscal Council is now recognising, because it says that the deficit target cannot be expected in any way if these additional measures are met. It is important to note this here because through the press - and I think we will be hearing this tomorrow - it will be said that the country will adopt an election budget. Well, if we wanted to do that, then we wouldn't have had to plan the elections to the 2018 budget, because by the time it worked, the elections would have been practically here, but should have been adopted as an election budget in 2017. But here's the certificate, says the Board of Budgets, that's not the case. We can provide additional resources as a result of the additional revenues that the balance will not change in any way, and we hope that the deficit target will be met to 2.4 percent. After that, it is worth talking about whether the spending surplus that we are setting is a good target. Mr Secretary of State has highlighted two very important points, one of which I mention because the issue of child feeding is coming back at the Committee on Budgets. 74 billion are recorded in this law for this purpose as resources that cannot be used for anything else. I told you about the pension premium case. After many years, pensioners will meet for the first time that at the end of the year we will be able to pay the pension premium as a result of the performance of the Hungarian economy and of the Hungarian people in this respect. It's a $50 billion item that, in addition to a pension increase, will strengthen the income and income position of pensioners. Mr State Secretary has spoken about it, and I also think it is important to mention that we are setting up a 25 billion-dollar investment preparatory fund in this budget. That's another foresight. There are a number of projects in our heads whose implementation begins with the need to start this investment at least at the level of dreams and at the level of planning. As a Member of Mohács, I would like to mention one of these: I hope that from this 25 billion-dollar fund there will also be funds for further preparation of the Danube Bridge in Mohács. I say that for further preparation, because the preparations have been going on, and now we are going to be able to make export plans, but we need resources to do so. This 25 billion-dollar fund also creates the conditions for further preparation for such a large investment. Road renovations. We know we can't spend enough money here that doesn't make sense. There is also a need to renovate roads in addition to the construction of highways, i.e. large infrastructure. In addition to the 10 billion-dollar framework so far, 50 billion will be earmarked for these developments. Health care is always a debate, partly a criticism of what is happening in health care, although health infrastructure has developed in this country, perhaps least so in Budapest. Now there are investments aimed at providing health improvements primarily in the capital: the Medical House of Kőbánya, the Reformed Church Bethesda Children's Hospital, the Hospital of Mercy, Pestszentimre, and more. Let me highlight one more thing, and this news is also expected. The rewriting of the construction rules has given settlements the task of making some kind of urban image analysis. That's obviously a cost. Here appears this item, this item of 2.7 billion, through which sufficient resources can be made available to all settlements in order to meet these tasks. The National Defence Fund will be raised to 55.8 billion and the reserve for extraordinary government measures will be HUF 10 billion. Therefore, despite the rising and well-developed budget revenue figures, the government is calculating sufficient reserves to manage the budget in the coming period. Careful planning and careful implementation of the budget continue to characterize the government. I think, fellow Members - you all know this, even the opposition - that on the basis of the figures presented here, this budget amendment is eligible, because it contains only positives for voters, families and economic operators when these figures are transferred to the budget. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2017-05-16-116	I salute my fellow Members and Secretary of State. I give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, notary, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-16-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Excuse me, let me ask you, I have 20 minutes or 15 minutes.
u2017-05-16-118	You have a 15-minute time frame.
u2017-05-16-119	Okay, thank you. Dear Secretary of State, In his keynote speech, he talked about how disciplined the government is and how this is a disciplined presentation. Undoubtedly, the government is disciplined to create for itself the movement, the extra pocket money that you will now be able to distribute in a disciplined manner here before the elections in 2018. I cannot bypass the fact that, as an opposition representative, I do not add that further comment, which is also a concern that this is a last chance for the government to steal more corruption money and that entrepreneurs close to the government still receive such money. For this reason, we cannot support the part of the increase in appropriations for extraordinary government measures and the increase in the National Defence Fund, as we also have enough doubts as to how well it is justified to increase the revenue appropriations for tax revenues, contributions and fees that we now see in the draft budget law. And let me make one more comment just in relation to the previous debate. If the government wants to increase its tax revenues or expand its margin, then introduce online cash registers into casinos. We have also heard in the previous debate how much tax revenue the government is clearly and clearly losing by leaving this entire industry in the black economy. We may be talking about many tens of billions, which is then one offshore account in Liechtenstein, Curaçao, Delaware or God knows, because we know that all of Andy Vajna's production companies - I am not talking about losses, because they are clearly and clearly registered in Budapest, but what is profitable is all - offshore business. So if you really want to whiten the Hungarian economy, then I would ask you to do so, and there must be a basic motion for a budget that you will introduce. [[17.00]] I would like to mention various points further, because there are many points; there are some points on which we would like to comment or debate. I would like to start with that right away, because I think that this is one of the most important points that the tasks related to government communication and consultation will receive an additional HUF 5 billion. In this regard, I have an amendment before me, and I ask that the government reconsider this entire budget line, and not only to help Antal Rogán's propaganda industry with an additional 5 billion, but to remove and eliminate the total budget of 20 billion. Just because it was mentioned above that the national economy is not currently in a position to raise the wages of certain workers, and when it is in such a state, it will be increased. Mr State Secretary also added that, by the way, 860 thousand workers are employed in Hungary in full, who receive their money from the state. From this, I understand... Excuse me, do you work for a government company? Anyway, let's say it's a million-dollar item. Of this, 550 thousand people will receive more money next year. Yes, Mr. Secretary, but let's face it, the reality behind this is, in fact, very tragic. Because the story is that, for example, in the case of civil servants who receive their salaries on the basis of the public servant's pay table, at present, two thirds - or a little more than two thirds - of this year, if you look at all the grades and payment categories - are guaranteed minimum wage and minimum wage. If this increases, more people may already receive a guaranteed minimum wage or minimum wage next year. I'm sorry to add, no, because the first one is all of Class A. So whoever started the job, and who has worked for 40 years, gets the minimum wage. So, indeed, their wages are increasing, but there is a government for that, and I'm sorry, but don't be proud of it. If I cross the border and pick tomatoes as a graduate in Austria, I will earn more than if I am a teacher or a public servant in Hungary. So I don't think he can be proud of that. In fact, I will go further: in today's Romania of the former Ceauşescu, for the following year, the wages of people living on state salaries will be roughly increased. So much so that if we look at the numbers, they'll make a lot more money. Let's say doctors will earn twice or three times as much as doctors working in Hungary. Well, if anything, then it is a shame that it will be worth it for a Hungarian doctor to go to work in Romania rather than to maintain the previous flow that doctors come from Romania to work in Hungary! It's not a good condition either, obviously, because everyone's working in their own country, but right now, we're gonna have to live to see this trend turn around. So what you're talking about is that 550,000 people are going to get paid, and that's what's really going on. And it is not true, therefore, that it would not already be in the Hungarian budget, so even if these additional items were raised in relation to government communication and consultation, it would not have the collateral to increase, say, the basic salary of civil servants. I do have your backup. There he is. It's just that it's not for poster campaigns, or I don't know what it's for, or you have to spend money on posters posted in such a letter, but you have to give it to people in wages. It's as simple as that. Then, moving on, the question of the mini-cradle just came up. Yes, indeed, if we define a mandatory municipal task, then it is appropriate to give it the task funding support. The mini-cradle becomes a mandatory municipal task, under conditions, if requested by a sufficient number of parents and so on. I think that this line you have put here, that you would spend a total of HUF 800 million on this task, is very little for the whole country. In addition, it is stipulated that a maximum amount of HUF 10 million can be applied by a municipality. Well, with a budget of HUF 10 million, a local government in Hungary, but I think a simple Hungarian family can expand its family house with one or two rooms at most, let alone create a municipal institution. So we also propose a significant increase in this envelope and in the total amount of appropriations. This also relates to the HUF 2 billion dedicated to the development needs of small municipalities. Now, recently, when the applications for rural development programmes were broadly closed, it appeared that, overall, eight times and eight to ten times the demand for certain tasks had been submitted to the Prime Minister's Office. For example, there is a significant overshoot on the part of municipalities in relation to improvements to the urban image. And obviously they will not be able to assess each of these applications positively, even if they have been formally correctly submitted, because there is not enough money. Compared to this, this total amount is HUF 2 billion, I think it is very modest. In addition to the programme of modern cities, we recommend the launch of the programme of modern villages, because without the viability of the Hungarian countryside, it is not possible to create a viable, livable, happy and proud Hungary. So I think this HUF 2 billion is far from enough for what it would otherwise be worth. The task is itself, the idea is good, but the amount is ridiculously small, I'm sorry, I have to say. Here it was said from our fellow Member from Harghita that some money was also being spent on a settlement picture. Then I'll tell you what this story is about. According to the municipal law, everyone has to do an image manual by 30 September. So this is September 30th of this year. Now, if we wanted to comply with all social consultation, professional consultation and deadlines, then in February we had to start preparing and implementing this matter in order to become a truly well-founded regulation in the image manual. Compared to this, I think that what you want to do is not even to give every settlement a certain HUF 1 million, because it is tailored to tax power, and settlements above HUF 32,000 per head of tax power do not receive any of this envelope, and I think that 2.8 billion is dedicated nationwide, that is far from enough. One million forints is not enough. In the case of a small town, this is only 5-6 million forints lower voice for the image manual. I think that if we take the role of the image manual seriously to protect the Hungarian settlement image, and we do not want someone to take a photo series with a smartphone and edit a little bit of publication from it, but we really think that this should be a serious regulatory task, then this envelope should be increased. The amount of the local government solidarity contribution is also changing. On this issue, I think that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has made it very clear that the whole concept, i.e. the local government solidarity contribution, is considered to be against the law. Why? That's because the municipalities are taking away their own income. What happened was that according to the Public Education Act, only the maintenance of schools was first withdrawn from the municipalities and then their operation was withdrawn. Yes, so the task was taken away from the municipalities, but also the money. It doesn't work that way. Because the task of own revenue is, according to the law, to cover the mandatory tasks of the municipality, which is complemented by the support received from the central budget. Mr. Secretary, I've just quoted the law literally. In addition, say the Mötv. that, indeed, the two subsystems are linked to each other, i.e. the municipal and central subsystems, but only if the central budget supports the municipal subsystem. [[17.10]] It's in the M.V. This two-thirds law was passed by you. So there is no connection between the two in the sense that there may be taxation or withdrawal to that effect. It's against the law. I really hope that sooner or later, Ab will say that, so we want to propose that the whole line be deleted. With regard to the National Film Fund, let me say that I think that they deserve extra support when Andy Vajna pays money from the profits of offshore companies into the deposit account, which is managed by the Film Fund. So when Andy Vajna pays HUF 2.4 billion for this collection account, he deserves to receive an extra HUF 2.4 billion from the central budget, but not until then. And I would like to say one more thing: 25 billion-dollar investment preparation fund, excellent idea. Let me add that I'm going to tell you right now where this should be: on Metro 3 there are 150 million trips on an annual basis, a huge number. We know he's practically in a life-threatening state. The bids received contain 30 billion more than the government intends to cover from KIOP. Why are the offers so high? I've been looking into why. Because they consider this whole investment to be so risky for the bidders. Because it takes a long time because the economic environment is so uncertain, because the technical state of the infrastructure they need to renew is so uncertain that they made such high offers. If the government does not provide this, for example through such funds, the reconstruction of Metro 3 will not be possible, not to mention the development and expansion of the line. So this is definitely an extra cost. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-16-120	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, notary. I now give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the mayor of the political group.
u2017-05-16-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, It did not surprise us that, like last year, this year's budget is being revised backwards. Of course, the government claims, however, that the most important aspect of budget planning is security and predictability, but the constant amendment of the budget - and it is likely that there will be further changes this year - is actually rebutting themselves. The LMP has repeatedly asked why and why it is necessary to submit the budget for next year in the spring session, when it is possible to foresee that it should be touched and amended, since international domestic economic processes are changing quite quickly. We see that this is not predictable, that the Parliament will accept it in the spring. All economic operators know precisely that these figures are not definitive. This year almost 600 billion HUF changes are needed in the budget, so there is no predictability now, and if you look at the details of the amendment, the picture is even more complicated, because this year's budget is subject to changes both in terms of revenue and expenditure, and the resulting HUF 175.8 billion in additional revenue will, of course, be spent by the government in one move. For example, the framework for the communication tasks of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office is increased by HUF 5 billion, so there is more money for government propaganda, although we keep saying that what we have so far is enough and much, but this is obviously to make more money through the corruption machine that has already been built on it. There will be even more national consultation, while only this recent increase is more than a referendum in Paks, for example, could be organised. According to the LMP, neither the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister nor government propaganda is necessary, and the HUF 27 billion spent on it would therefore be better off everywhere than Minister Antal Rogán. But this amendment also perfectly reflects your thinking. You do not govern properly and insufficiently, and instead you communicate much more. Since government performance is getting worse, as more and more families feel abandoned, it is necessary to spend more and more obviously on communication, to try to build an alternative reality in which we know that Hungary is performing better. However, if they really wanted to do something for the country, this money would be used, for example, to introduce a minimum pension, i.e. to raise such a minimum retirement pension of HUF 50,000. Or, for example, they could reserve it for a general wage increase, to which it is obvious that this amount is insufficient, but it could be set aside. The creation of the investment preparation fund, to which HUF 25 billion is transferred, shows very well that the government is facing serious problems in the area of public investment. They argue that this fund will be created to achieve efficiency. But if I understand correctly, Mr. Secretary, in your exposé, you said that this is mainly for SMEs. [[Peter Benő Banai is shaking his head.]] No, I got that wrong. Then that's not how it works. But since we do not know here what this investment fund money will be spent on, we would not be surprised if, for example, they wanted to finance the increase in the cost of the water world. Indeed, the investment, the investment of the water world, is a parody of efficiency, since it was originally designed with HUF 14 billion, and it may reach HUF 140 billion by the opening. And there is another major investment, the reconstruction of the Puskás Ferenc Stadium, and there are also serious disruptions. We know that Sándor Csányi has been in a number of unpleasant situations with the European Football Association when he reported delays in the transfer of the stadium, and it is possible that speeding up the workflow will also result in extra costs for the government. We do not know that this investment preparatory fund may be used to fund this. If I did not understand correctly in Mr Secretary of State's introduction what this investment preparation fund was specifically used for, then I would like you to list this in a little detail. We, the LMP, cannot support an amendment that gives the government a free hand to spend a few ten billion forints, because we have watched too many times where this leads. There's a huge amount of money in the National Security Fund. With an increase of HUF 55.9 billion, the fund's budget will almost double, and they will be able to manage more than 115 billion. In principle, this amount should only be touched if there is an exceptional situation or if there is any emergency. But unfortunately, experience has shown that the government is more greedy than that. Last year 300 million were transferred to finance competition and 200 million to finance the Maccabi Games in Budapest, which would be difficult to classify as extraordinary expenses. It is even more outrageous, however, that from this fund, HUF 3.3 billion was transferred last year to the renovation of the István Garancsi Stadium in Fehérvár. Unfortunately, we can conclude from this that the National Defence Fund is more of an oligarch protection fund, which is used when some members of the economic hinterland may have little money. The LMP is therefore not at all calm when the government doubles the allocation of the National Defence Fund because its proper use is not ensured. And I cannot go without saying that, in addition to doubling the framework of the National Defence Fund, the appropriation of extraordinary government measures will be increased by HUF 10 billion. This means 120 billion forints, so the two appropriations represent a total of 240 billion forints, a virtually free-to-use framework for the government, at least according to the practice we have seen so far. In LMP's view, this money should indeed be kept instead of recapitalising the economic hinterland in preparation for unexpected events. Today, the country may be even more vulnerable to external factors than it was in 2008. In recent years, the government has based its economic policy only on the support of foreign large companies, and if another wave sweeps the world economy, Hungary will surely be the loser. [[17.20]] At present, the Hungarian government enjoys a favourable world market situation, since the world's leading economies are in a good position, they are currently functioning in a balanced way, but we know that in America the rate increase has already started, which is forecasting monetary tightening, and Barclays has started to finance housing loans without self-esteem, which has already caused severe tensions in the world economy. These all suggest that the favourable world market situation could change at any time. According to LMP, a responsible government learns from its predecessors' mistakes and is really preparing for unexpected events, not just looking at the security reserve as another government money tap. This should be very, very considered. We also consider it important to talk about the origin of the additional source that the government has now spent or spent. This money comes from selling state land, commonly known as the land heist. The only reason the government can lay hands on this money is because it has sold one of our most important common assets, because it has lived up to one of Hungary's future guarantees. This is a very, very, very serious mistake. Behind this extra 160 billion forints, there are tens of thousands of small farmers. According to LMP, land privatisation should never have happened and should never have happened. However, if the government has already committed this historical sin, the minimum would be to spend the money from this on Hungarian agriculture alone and only on the increase of the state's land. Instead, the government is now transferring almost all the money into two funds from which it can spend virtually without control on whatever it wants, i.e. no doubt: the money from the land heist will land at the Garanchei, the Butchers and the other oligarchs. So they even get the money back in this form they had to spend buying state land. The amendment that has just been tabled exposes the government's policy from another point of view. While last year the majority of the extra income was due to an increase in corporate tax of HUF 290 billion, this year there was a decrease of HUF 139 billion in this area. This highlights very well what has been proven several times that Hungary is once again in favour of multinational companies and is making a gesture towards them by reducing corporate tax. This money typically landed in foreign large companies, while Hungarian small businesses are forced to raise the minimum wage. It simply cannot be accepted that when small and medium-sized enterprises need support, when they know that small and medium-sized enterprises are in a tight position, they are able to make small and medium-sized enterprises pay for the minimum wage increase. We calculated that for a small contractor the cost of raising a minimum wage is 15,000 HUF extra. At the same time, multinational companies receive a gift of more than HUF 100 billion. This is simply unacceptable; it simply cannot be understood why this is happening. Why is this happening when we know that 80 percent of employees are being worked by small and medium-sized enterprises, so there is scope for job creation? We know that the expansion of employment in multinational companies, this capacity is simply limited. So these things don't make sense. We believe that the above-mentioned revenues should be devoted to investments that promote housing, energy efficiency and the use of renewables, which would build the future and would also benefit those who earn less. It is also certain that there is an urgent need to re-establish the resources of education and health care. In recent years, millions of forints have been withdrawn from these sectors. There should also be a real wage increase and a minimum pension increase. However, these appear from the current amendment that they are not very important to the government. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-05-16-122	Thank you, Congresswoman, Mr Parliament. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the German ethnic advocate Ritter Imre, who presents the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translates it into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2017-05-16-123	Danke schön. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nr. T/15427. über die Änderung des Gesetz Nr. XC. Aus Jahr 2016, des ungarischen Haushalts für Jahr 2017 - im Zusammenhang mit den Nationalitäten übergreifende Teilen - erörtere. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position at T/15427. XC 2016 on Hungary's central budget for 2017 amending law on budgetary aspects affecting nationalities. In the general debate of the 2017 central budget bill a year ago, I started by giving a detailed, factual assessment of the situation of the nationalities living in Hungary, which I concluded by saying in summary that the support of nationalities living in Hungary is in a deplorable state, and this was still delicately formulated. Then I moved on to the fact that the first serious result of the 2014 Parliamentary Representation was that we were able to achieve a breakthrough in the 2015 Central Budget Act by increasing the support of less than HUF 4 billion earlier and, for many years, unchanged support by around HUF 2 billion, by more than 50 percent. Less than half a year later, the 13 nationalities living in Hungary received another significant increase of HUF 2 billion of HUF 63.4 million in the first year of the 2016 Central Budget Act. I have listed in detail the changes achieved as a combined effect of two years, the extremely positive improvement, and then the first two years I concluded that, after all these extremely joyful, long-awaited changes, we believe that this is a moment where we must thank without reservation all the problems, tasks and tensions that no doubt exist. What happened during the first narrow year and a half in the central budget laws of 2015 and 16 is almost unprecedented to us. In this situation, after these two years, we arrived at the draft central budget law for 2017, in which I had not yet been able to report a specific amount of aid, an expected amount of aid, and three reasons for which I would quote again. [[17 .30]] On the one hand, who has been looking at the very positive changes and figures of the last two years, which I have listed at the time, and who knows only these, you can see that it was right that the nationalities in Hungary have received a serious increase in support over the previous two years compared to the general increase in the budget, and in this respect, who has examined this, is absolutely right and must be right. At the same time, who has seen the whole process, the decades ahead, the content behind it, how deep we started, so that our mother tongue, our identity, the preservation of our traditions, the transfer to our children, or rather: what magnitude of tasks we have in return, and how far we are in the last hour, it also knows that the first two years have been enough to hold on, to receive faith again, and to take a new impetus on the path that can ensure the survival of the nationalities in Hungary. The reconciliation and understanding of these two viewpoints, opinions and the establishment of an appropriate consensus was a feature of the process of reconciliation of ethnic needs related to the draft law on the central budget for 2017. Third, we learned during the preparation of the 2017 Central Budget Act that the draft law on the 2017 Central Budget will be drawn up and submitted in a new structure. From the point of view of nationalities living in Hungary, this meant that national minority subsidies were included in a separate annex, Annex 9 to the Act, at the same time as Article 428/2012. Government Decree No 1 ended on 1 January 2017. The main parts of the regulation were also included in Annex 9 to the Finance Act, but the EMMI was authorised to regulate enforcement issues not covered by the Budget Act in the EMMI Regulation. The preparation of the draft budget law for 2017 was preceded by very intensive discussions, and there were also differences in approach and practice between the relevant wallets, the nationality committee and the agreed opinion of ÖNOSZ. However, we finally came to a transitional regulation which, together with the proposed amendment, was acceptable for us and was a compromise solution. At the same time, we agreed with NGM and EMMI that the 2017 rules on the granting, use and settlement of aid are temporary and, on the basis of experience with the 2017 Central Budget Law, we will re-examine and generalise the regulatory issues for national authorities. Finally, the issue of numbers has been put to a standstill in the general debate. Here, too, a compromise agreement has been reached under which the 2017 Central Budget Act has increased by 700 million in the order of magnitude, and in parallel with the amendment of the 2016 Central Budget Act, an additional HUF 400 million for investment and renovation purposes. On this basis, the 2017 Budget Act and several amendments to the Act on the March already present issues of financing and liquidity which relate mainly to the management, operation and financing of the national minority public education institutions, national minority institutions. On the one hand, free meals should be mentioned. Depending on the size and size of the institution, depending on whether the institution belongs directly to a kitchen or to a local government, there are different degrees of lack of resources. This is a problem for smaller institutions because funding after taking over by minority authorities is not substantially better than their previous funding, it can reach up to 15-20 million in size for larger institutions, as national minority authorities and local authorities have also taken over public education institutions above 600-800-1000. The question of a free textbook is not a hedge, but also a liquidity problem, as this procedure is carried out by the maintenance nationality authorities and their reserved institutions to buy the books and ask the EMMI for the price of the books after the payment of the books. I would just like to say that almost a year after that, the payment of the national minority books purchased for 2016-17 has still not arrived. Similarly, in the new situation, there is a need to re-evaluate the different calls for proposals in several respects and to pay particular attention to the fact that new operating and asset management formations have been created before the tender is launched, so that, for example, in the institutions taken over by the national authorities, the local government cannot apply for, say, the renovation of a kitchen, because it is owned by the local government, not its own; the local government cannot apply for a tender for it, because it cannot prove the number of children, since it is in an institution in which the local German government is maintained. In the same way, it is also a problem for applications to be issued that the usual previous practice is that the so-called developed regions: Budapest, Pest county, and the other local governments and institutional-sustaining municipalities could not participate in the tender, which is extended to institutions maintained by local national authorities, even though it does not matter in which region of the country they are in, as they do not have an independent income, as opposed to the local government. With these, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are new situations in the area of institution maintenance, and I also think that, after the transfer of ownership, operation and infrastructure to Klebelsberg in the case of schools, it is obvious that, in the case of public education institutions received from local national authorities, it is a task taken over from the State and clearly can only be financed through state, central budget support. I would also like to refer to national minority applications, minority civil society organisations, ethnic cultural programmes and minority mother tongue student camps in connection with the central budget law of 17th. Unfortunately, regardless of the fact that the adoption of the budget had already come forward from December to June two years ago, we have not been able to achieve, even last year, that the issue of national minority applications also comes forward from December to at least September, so that at the end of the year or at the latest in January, we can know what kind of support the organisations will receive. Last year, this was partly due to the Public Finance Act, according to which there was still a regulation that a commitment for the following year could only be made up to 50% of the amount used in the reference year. This regulation, which we were able to amend in November with the help of Parliament, and as I know that, in December, not only the EPER system, but also the Phare system, the applications were issued and submitted, as far as I know, neither the EMMI nor the NGM have any legal obstacles which could prevent future national minority applications from being launched in September 2017, will be evaluated until December 2017, the specific grant contracts may be signed in January and grants may be transferred by the end of January, as this is prefinanced grant. [[17.40]] Finally, I would like to mention that the assessment of all the data, especially in the case of public education institutions maintained by national and local self-governments, which lead to a lack of resources, I trust that it will take place at the end of the academic year and during the summer, and, if our objective data are available, we will initiate, where and to the extent necessary, the amendment of the 2017 Central Budget Act at the beginning of the autumn session. I trust and ask Parliament's support for this in the autumn to support the legislative amendment initiated by the nationality committee. Thank you for listening. Danke für die Aufmerksamkeit.
u2017-05-16-124	Thank you, Mr Ritter. Dear Parliament, Now for the two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, MSZP.
u2017-05-16-125	Thank you very much for the floor. For which reason I wanted to speak, my fellow Member from Harghita spoke. I don't think it's good that we're discussing the budget in the spring because it's the kind of dreamed-out number that makes it possible to make a budget. We can see this now, as we are discussing both the 2017 and the 18th budgets on the same day. So now we're going to modify the previous one, and we're going to discuss the next one, so we can only put it on the table based on dreamed numbers. I understand my fellow Member saying that there are only positive amendments to this 2017 budget amendment, depending on where we look at it and who we look at it for. Because if you look at government communication and consultation plus 5 billion, then of course I believe that some people do, for example, the propaganda industry, and if you're looking at the news sponsored by the propaganda industry and in your pockets, then of course you're just looking at the positives. There's an increasing number of news broadcasts that are only positive for you, but it's because you're funding it, from Habony to Andy Vajna, from radios to TVs and newspapers. That's why you shouldn't just watch [[Dr. János Harghitai: Pension, for example!]] And then you see, you don't just have what you think. The need to modify the local government's municipal image protection manual, the money must be given for this, of course, the municipalities have no money to do it, because they have so little money, that there is nothing to finance, so 90 percent of the municipalities couldn't do it. They finally noticed there was no money. Obviously, they'd rather spend on social issues than, for example, I can fully support that. And what I can tell you about this is that the grant of the National Film Fund of 2.4 billion is because the MVM now has to support the CÖF, not the National Film Fund. So this is what it looks like to be supporting your civilians, your news, your TVs and your propaganda industry with these positive amendments. It's not positive for the people, it's positive for you, your buddies and your pockets. Thank you.
u2017-05-16-126	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. Speaking in advance, Vice-President János Latorcai, Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2017-05-16-127	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, If we look at the budget history of the last 26 to 27 years, I think we can see that it is not uncommon that the numbers of an approved budget need to be changed and even that has to be amended several times. But I would also like to refer to János Harghitai, who said that we should admit that there are few examples when the change or amendment is not caused by the deficit, but by the surplus. And that is what we are talking about, because the economic performance that improves or improves more quickly than expected makes it possible to correct this year's budget figures. This positive change or change is, to a large extent or a large extent, due to the fact that, as many have already said here, and Mr Secretary of State pointed out in his exposé, the Government decided last year to promote the systemic development of wages and signed a certain agreement with employers, workers, social partners, which will lead to more steps in actions and reduce employers' contributions. Otherwise, we have made a great deal of progress with the wage agreement in order to increase our wage level, whether at Central European or European level. It is very important and it is very important to underline that this time we are not financing the rise in the standard of living by borrowing or the underlying measures. This is a result for which the country has worked, which comes from an increase in the country's strength and capacity. The wage agreement had a wide-ranging impact on the budget. Taking just a few examples: the reduction of corporate tax and social contribution tax, as we have heard, has reduced revenues by HUF 331 billion, while personal income tax has increased by HUF 111 billion, while excise duty, mainly due to the increase in consumption, has increased by HUF 34 billion more than previously set targets. This change, which was not yet seen at the time of planning, has not made the budget unstable; many thought that it would also become unstable, and even the figures of the amendment show that the budget is able to adapt without strain to the objectives required by the programme. The question has often been raised by experts as to why the budget is flexible. How is it possible that the introduction of a wage development package does not entail a necessary withdrawal from other areas? How is it possible that the changes did not strike the budget out of balance? Well, because of the increase in revenue and the increase in budget margins, as I mentioned at the beginning, the government can ensure this. While in previous times - I think we do not have to go back very much - it has been a serious problem for each government to bring the budget deficit below 10 per cent, but we will now decide to spend this revenue surplus for what purposes and for what improvements. According to the law amendment, this amount is the difference between items improving the balance and damaging the balance, i.e. a total of HUF 175 billion. This leads to an increase in children's meals, pension promotions, the development of the national road network, the creation of a pre-investment fund for more efficient public investment, the joint development of the Hungarian Reformed Church Bethesda Children's Hospital and the Buda Irghalmasrendi Hospital, but this brings about the creation of a special development centre for the labour market in Vác, the support of the Hungarian Ecumenical Assistance Organisation or the National Inclusion Programme Unlimited! and the care of the First World War war tombs and many other programs. [[17.50]] Of course, we do not judge this, it is quite clear that these objectives are identical, because it is self-evident that my opposition colleagues can support a lot of them, but they do not agree much. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, although the balance of the budget would allow a larger proportion of 175 billion to be spent, even the whole, the government has not used this instrument, instead of it, it will spend more than one third of the total surplus that can be used to increase the amount of the National Defence Fund. This can also be assessed differently and differently. But I would like to express the opinion of the Fiscal Council here, which says that the increase in the allocation of the National Defence Fund will in fact strengthen the budget further with the help of the reserve, including the security of meeting the objective of reducing deficit and the public debt-to-GDP ratio, i.e. a strengthening factor in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, The budget is not only able to finance these items of expenditure because our country produces significant economic growth; it is at least as important that revenue increases systematically every year, so it develops and the ability of the State to collect taxes becomes more effective. If we are looking for the most visible indicators of effective economic policy, I recommend the following to everyone. Increasing GDP, declining public debt, a managed deficit, and not least that the State is able to increase revenues without increasing taxes, through the development of the institution and through the modernisation of legislation. The surplus in the budget also indicates the success of efforts to whiten the economy. Our country is approaching step by step to apply the principle of public burden-sharing in all sectors and in all company forms, thereby promoting the competitiveness of the economy. In this regard, allow me to offer your attention to the President of the State Audit Office, László Domokos [[Dr. István Józsa: Fideszes imager...!]] one of its definitions, the concept of sustainable bleaching, which suggests that increasing the efficiency of tax collection is a serious tool for reducing tax rates further and improving the standard of living of the population. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Then you must start with Andy Vajna!]] The new tax collection tools - online cash registers, EKAER or binding the invoicing system to the tax office next year - all coincide with the objectives of sustainable whitening, and thus we hope to contribute to further programmes similar to the wage agreement in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your attention. I would ask you to support the amending budget, which, as I mentioned in the introduction, and as János Hargitai put it, is positive. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-16-128	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr Vice President. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.
u2017-05-16-129	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to respond to a few things. Congressman Harghita said that pensioners who watch this debate - Member, have been unable to watch Parliament broadcast for years. [[Dr. János Harghitai: Online!]] I believe that in Hungary, it is generally common for pensioners to sit there and watch the parliamentary debate very hard to find on the Internet. [[Lajos Rig: Smart TV is being turned on!]] You know, Mr. Congressman, it is really outrageous that the public media is allocated HUF 89 billion in the budget, and in Hungary, which is already a foundation for a local government, that local government meetings have been made available in the smallest settlement, until then, the debates of the Hungarian Parliament cannot be seen as an ordinary citizen. By the way, I know why you can't see it, Congressmen, because then you would notice that your salary is being paid so that government representatives don't even come to Parliament. So, we don't do our jobs, but we take the pay. That can't happen at a regular job. It's true, everything can be explained. The children's meal has been said several times. Congressman Harghita said that today resources for children's meals will be spent in such a way that no one else can. That's not true, Congressman. At the end of each year, I hold a press conference where billions are spent, say, on stadiums from the budget line planned for children's meals and then distributed to the Fidesz municipalities at the end of the year! You know, Congressman, the numbers don't add up. I keep asking written questions about children's meals, and also about their holidays and during the year's children's meals, and somehow the numbers don't add up. To my most recent question, Bence Rétvári said that this year we spend HUF 6.6 billion on holiday meals, then András Tállai, State Secretary for the NAV, wrote for me HUF 4 billion. It'd be nice if the Ministries could coordinate. By the way, it's just a tiny two billion forints that don't add up. By the way, it's a small sum in a budget, but we're talking about children's meals, disadvantaged, poor children, it's just a tiny two billion forint that doesn't add up between the two ministries. By the way, it's also a net lie that the 208 000 needy children have access to the food supply. I keep asking for the data, the kids don't get it, because the law is written so they can't have it. The D.O.D. doesn't know about it, but we're gonna make sure the kids don't get it. It could be said that this is the amending budget, although I would add that we have received from Congressman Harghitai that we were not talking about this specifically; I would add that you were not talking specifically about this amendment, but if we are doing it, it is not acceptable that you are doing it, then it is absolutely all right. I think it's a difference in values. To give the Rogán propaganda museum another HUF 5 billion just because the budget is supposed to have done well, and in the meantime only a small moment: today, Lajos Kósa's press conference was held to request an extension of the consultation, because unfortunately they heard several places that the consultation letter had not arrived in time. Well, they're not even fit to send a letter. So we can give you an extra five billion and ten here every six months for what? Why? They can't send a letter! Today a letter cannot be sent out in Hungary, because it takes months. I'll add, I got it last week, too. [[Dr. János Harghitai intervenes.]] I don't want to be sent any more. Don't send such a letter from my tax dollars. I don't want to hear it. Don't even send this net dirty lie to my mailbox. For billions of forints! [[Dr. István Józsa: This is also fascistoid tempo!]] What they're doing in this country is terrible. [[Gyula Vantara: The postman must have been social!]] What? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You know what's in the mail, Congressman? I'll tell you when you're done. You know what's in the mail in the country? That one day they only carry the letters they're offered, the second day they carry the plain letters, because there's no mailman to carry them because they don't get paid, you know, Congressman? [[Gyula Vantara: That's not true!]] It's not too soon to get to work in the post office in the country. And then we give the Rogán Ministry HUF 5 billion, and we talk about how the government negotiates with employers' organisations and employers' organisations? ! I beg you to live in reality. It's not what they say here, it's not! Believe me, I might believe what you say sometimes if you sat here from 133 Members to at least 100 in amending the budget during the budgetary debate. But, Mr. Secretary, again, I can say that you are not respected. His own pro-government representatives don't ignore their work. No, what is it, because that's what they consider it. I'll be curious tomorrow, at the beginning of the budget, at 8:00 a.m., how many people will be sitting here in Parliament. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] Filled, loaded. [[18.00]] Yes, we have seen in recent years how Parliament's benches have been filled. If Viktor Orbán comes in, then everyone, like a puppy, comes in, then when Viktor Orbán withdraws, everyone goes out, and then we stay here and argue with one or two people. [[Dr. János Harghitai: Let's get back to it tomorrow.]] So, what's been going on here all these years is terrible. And believe me, Mr. Secretary of State is right, I told you earlier that we should have an argument. I can't! Maybe he doesn't want to anymore, and they don't even look at us enough to argue with us at all. We're gonna sit here, we're gonna tell you, we're gonna have a record, and our conscience is clear, because at least we told you. But I'm only asking you one thing, to face reality once in a while - it would be nice. Here's how they're gonna spend extra resources on a road repair program. However, the extension of the highway from the new village of Berettyó to the border has just been completed, I think it's about... [[Dr. János Harghitai intervenes.]] It's okay, but I'll tell you. You've been talking about something that's not in there. I'm telling you, if you're free, then let me be free, too. Okay? [[Dr. János Harghitai: Good news if you build a road there.]] Congressman, you can push a button, that's what you say. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] His budget has now been completed by about 25 billion. We've already had a budget for this platoon, and now we've got a quick head start. I also wanted to hear in this amendment about where the M4 was stopped, 60 billion forints rotting in the ground, and there will be nothing left of it. Where's the sequel? I wanted to read about it in this budget. Or I'd like to read about when they're going to continue to renovate the Bishop's Ridge. It doesn't have a letter in it just because we don't want to give it to Simicka, and Butcher somehow hasn't gotten to the point where he can do it. This development should have started in 16 years. It's 17 now, we're going to discuss the '18 budget, and I'm not going to notice where these lines are - I beg you! And then we're talking about who makes what and how wages have evolved. Lőrinc Mészáros earns 10-12 million forints in an hour. [[Lajos Rig: Good gasman, that's why. Anita Beringes: That's it!]] In a year, his fortune grew by HUF 100 billion. Show me another man in this country who can do this. We can name a few who are very clever, only behind that, behind everyone, are the government's leading politicians. Mr. Vice President said it was the cash registers. Yes, I also read during the debate that Mihály Varga announced that, perhaps in a year's time, the casinos will be connected to the NAV. What are we waiting for, Mr. Secretary? [[Dr. István Józsa: To make a profit Vajna!]] To steal another HUF 10-20-30 billion from Andy Vajna? You still haven't had enough? Even he hasn't been richer than 100 billion in a year, only 4-5 billion in a year, right, or 10, I don't know, because he's one of the hundreds. I'm telling you, it's stomach-stricken, it's just, you know, people aren't stupid, and it's gonna have consequences. And we hope that there will be consequences in 18. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2017-05-16-130	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Finally!]]
u2017-05-16-131	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I will try to respond with the calmness that I have seen from Congressman Latorcai and that Mr Hargitai has followed. I would like to respond to a few things that have been said in the debate. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély: Yes?]] Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély said that the numbers are not right. Congresswoman, allow me to put the numbers you mentioned first, so that they can at least match. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Let's hear it!]] So the financing of public media is determined by a two-thirds law, about HUF 71 billion. Please, when you say numbers, indicate the numbers that are included in the budget law. [[Dr. Imre Józsa: Public Media! Where's the public media?]] Food for children... [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2017-05-16-132	Congressman Józsa, you're waiting for two minutes, you're asking for a normal word, and then you'll have to put it in writing. Go on, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-16-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The separation of the sources of the children's meals is included in the amendment of the 2017 Budget Act. If you think it is important for this amount to appear separately from other tasks of local authorities, I suggest that you accept the motion and that the source of the child's meal be labelled. Congresswoman asked what the amount was. I could answer the question with a question about how much was in 2010 and before. We report on the sources of children's meals in all budgetary debates; reproduction, we see. It is now presented separately and included by the government in the 2017 budget proposal. We will do the same in the draft budget law for 2018. [[Dr. János Harghitai: Are you listening? Do you understand?]] So when the Congresswoman talks about whether the numbers are correct or not, I would like to ask with great respect that the motion before you and which is now being debated should be viewed, and that you would be pleased to take a look at the motion for 18, which has already been submitted to the Parliament. Where's the M4 construction? The initial proposal for the 2017 Budget Act included expenditure on the construction of the M4. If you want to go that way, you can see that the construction is in progress. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Which section, Minister of State?]]
u2017-05-16-134	Congresswoman!
u2017-05-16-135	Madam Congresswoman, I would kindly ask you to look at the resources available for certain projects in the proposals put forward by the Government, and we can avoid an open debate, if I may. Online cash register system: expand gradually. I could answer that question here with a question. If that is the problem, why is it not introduced, then why has the government not used this option before 2010? So, with all due respect, I'd like to ask [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] to see where the country, the government, the Parliament, and what tasks are still ahead of us, and to evaluate whether, in this system, we are moving from one point to another in the system of whitening the economy, gradually moving forward [[Dr. István Józsa: Therefore it is incorrect.]] and, indeed, the revenue that can finance additional expenditure is increasing. The reality of what is real; the Congresswoman said that we should live in reality and face reality. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's right!]] Those who live from minimum wage and guaranteed minimum wage, whose wage increase this year has been made to a level that has not been or is included in the design of the 18th century, are faced with reality. When you look at a change in the tax rate, they are faced with reality. When they see the rent bill, they face reality after all. If we look at the change in the income of the population as a whole from this picture, let me say the public figure that is here for the Honourable Parliament, only last year - the question whether we know the numbers of 16 or not. Please, net average earnings increase of 7.8 percent, 2016, fact number. So what are we talking about? Let's look at the numbers, the first monthly statistics, the wage increases that have been made. Madam Congresswoman, I understand what you're saying, in which it says that there are those with a lower rate of rise, there were some who didn't have an increase, but the majority, the average, experienced a significant increase in wages, net and real earnings. If the government does not believe its numbers, I ask you to look at the numbers of the statistical body of the European Union. Finally, allow me to recommend some numbers to Members, and those who follow them even on the Internet - which is reduced in VAT - who follow the broadcast on the Internet, I would like to quote a few numbers to those who do so, and I would also like to draw the attention of the congresswoman. 2017 because we are talking about this year's amendment: fifth largest economic growth. If I may put it this way, I will knock the essential thing down from the beginning, this is not the number of the government I have in my hand. [[He's showing me a document.]] The European Commission, honourable Members, published its economic forecast for all Member States on 11 May. According to the Commission, this forecast is the following, not according to the government: GDP growth will be the fifth of the 28 Member States, according to the Commission, and they calculate 3.6 percent. I will not rule out that this number will be corrected upwards based on the first quarter data. The unemployment rate is the third lowest of the 28 Member States in 2017. But, Congresswoman, I would also ask you to look at what this indicator was like around 2010 and perhaps compare it with some other countries that were in a similar situation. [[18.10]] Budget balance 2017: 2.3 percent; more optimistic than the government. In 2010, public debt was 10 percentage points higher than the EU average, now 10 percentage points lower than the EU average and, according to them, fell by 1.5 percentage points. The current account balance, which previously was a deficit, is now a 3.5 percent surplus as a percentage of GDP. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Let's look behind the numbers a little bit.]] I am saying that this is the image that the government does not see, not only the market investors see, not the credit rating agencies, but also the European Commission, with which there has been a debate many times, and this is the image that I think the Honourable Parliament can decide on extra expenditure in order to preserve the stability of public finances that has often been mentioned. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-16-136	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa, the Hungarian Socialist Party for two minutes.
u2017-05-16-137	Thank you very much. I am very sad that a skilled economist gives such distorted data. Mr. Secretary, your representative at KDNP says that because the socialists have bankrupted the country, please take a look at it, that's just plain bullshit. That's what I'm saying to fascist propaganda. 'Cause it was a global crisis, Mr. Congressman. [[Constant interruptions.]] Dear Secretary of State, you were sitting at the Ministry of Finance, sitting there as head of department, you know perfectly well that the whitening measures were prepared. We've never said that this doesn't have to be a sort of gradual. But after seven years, referring to the 2010 crisis year, that's bullshit! Don't do anything stupid like that, I beg you. So, when you know, the so-called technical growth, if after two quarters... The Greeks are now in recession because their GDP was negative in two quarters. [[Dr. László Varga intervenes.]] You took over with technical growth, because you showed increases twice in a row, in the last quarter of 2009 and in the first quarter of 2010, during the Bajnai government. Then take a look at this. And after seven years of governance, it should not be compared to 2010, but to the opportunities, the missed opportunities, the result of which is that they are late with wage developments, the fact that four million very poor people live in the country, and that Eurostat has shown that an extraordinary expenditure of EUR 200 represents an unsolvable problem for 70 percent of Hungarian families. [[Anita Herring: That's right!]] Then don't come here with the national bank statistics, that the average saving in Hungary is HUF 4 million! There's a lot of disproportion, and you're trying to wash it away with these average numbers.
u2017-05-16-138	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai.
u2017-05-16-139	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The word fascistoid propaganda therefore belongs to the European Commission. [[Dr. István Józsa: The lie... Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: At this time they always refer to the EU and then spit... The president rings the bell.]] So, Congressman, what I quoted as a source designation is the official document of the European Commission, which is public. So when it comes to an adjective, it's up to me - but it's not about ideas, it's not about government subjective opinions. I respectfully ask you to take this into account. As far as its substance is concerned, yes, in 2008-2009 there was a comprehensive economic crisis. The big question is to what extent this has affected some countries. My statement is that Hungarian fundamentals, the foundations of the Hungarian economy, were catastrophic, and therefore the economic crisis affected Hungary much deeper than other European countries. And my statement is that compared to this situation, a consolidation and economic development took place on the basis of the government's proposals [[Dr. István Józsa: We made it grow!]] which, I will return to the agenda, now, in 2017, will allow us to carry out additional expenditures due to economic expansion, thanks to the development of the number of employees. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-16-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes for two minutes, MSZP.
u2017-05-16-141	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to draw the Minister of State's attention to the fact that even Prime Minister said that it is true, abroad, but it is also heard here that he has taken over the budget in good condition, and you should know this best, who have carried it through the previous administration, and then here, as an employee of the Ministry of Finance. That's why I don't understand. I think you're being punished, Mr State Secretary, because as a professional, you're being put here to defend an amendment that is otherwise indefensible in many ways, because when we hand over money to the propaganda industry, I think it's professionally indefensible. And so I think that he may have done something very, very strange or bad in the ministry that you're being implanted. [[Dr. János Harghitai: He did it!]] to protect this amendment with numbers when there are things in it that cannot be protected. [[Dr. István Józsa: Executive!]] I'm very, very sorry, Mr. Secretary, that you have to go through with this, but don't forget one thing. [[Dr. István Józsa: Mengele!]] That there are always people behind the numbers. And really, when you, in connection with waste management, pay compensation for waste transfer fees, which could be given to pensioners and large families to municipalities, you will be eliminated from this year, but you will give the propaganda industry HUF 5 billion to proclaim how well you perform, how well everything is; only people, as they cut their small bread and put butter on it - because you are not sure you will get cut, and you will certainly not watch mediation on the Internet - you do not feel that things are going so well. So behind the numbers are people who don't have the money to buy a washing machine, if it goes down, the kid doesn't have the money to buy new shoes at the end of the month if you get a hole. They don't feel that the budget is better, they see that you're wasting money to your friends. For five thousand forints, Lawrence Ripper doesn't have to bend down if he drops it on the ground, because in that second, he makes more money than he dropped. Thank you.
u2017-05-16-142	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr István Józsa, MSZP.
u2017-05-16-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Don't take this the wrong way, I consider it a result for myself to the Ministry of Finance, or recently to the Ministry of National Economy, the measures it has taken in the area of whitening the economy. But don't deny that this is, as you said, gradual, and the preparation of this has already begun in our time, we have prepared the merger of the tax office and the customs office, VPOP, so they form an organic process. And he didn't appreciate the fact that we passed on government in technical growth, which was positive in the last quarter of 2009 and in the first quarter of 2010, and on this basis the Prime Minister said in an even fair approach in Brussels that he had taken over the country in a consolidated, good financial condition. All the rest is your propaganda, which I say after seven years is fascistoid, because you can't get out of lying. I would say to you, Mr Harghitai - I have already quoted to the others - that Winston Churchill's eternal saying is that the death of a politician, when he starts to take his own bullshit and bullshit seriously. So that doesn't give us the basis for strategic thinking. So the results of the whitening of the economy have been achieved, I admit it. They have money from this, not from the wonderful economic policy. But what I see from this is that, in the framework of the legislation, they want to steal more, they want to hijack more, they want to hijack, they want to eliminate the public media. Do you know what news is going on in Hungary today? What an MTI can do. Besides, there's nothing at all. So there is nothing even in the management of the MTI, there are only government soldiers in it, the leadership of the MTVA is carried out by Attila Várhegyi, who you have hidden because of his criminal record, and he will be on a short leash for every show, every news service, so that the freedom of opinion has disappeared in Hungary. [[18.20]] That's what I tell fascist propaganda that one side can lie what it wants. I don't think this amending budget is going to reflect a different picture. So when the Goebbels Propagandaministery gets $5 billion plus the bullshit and the one-sided information, while the pension equity budget gets $20 million, so it's a knife opener. You're not supposed to do that. Either plan it properly and then use decent money for the fairness of pensions, or do not come up with it. What you do not feel as a finance officer, Mr Banai Secretary, is that part of a fascistoid machine, part of a repressive machine that has abolished freedom of speech, undermined the rule of law, which, through advertising tax, destroys an entire industry, eliminates the independent Hungarian press, and then you are happy to applaud it; and I say that, yes, financially, dictatorships are successful for a while, but then they collapse as a house of cards, because lack of confidence leads to a lack of investment, and a fall in investment. They are very much here with the financial balance, which I also consider to be of great value. Without EU funds, Hungary would be bankrupt. I know that this cannot be distinguished from each other, but they do not produce nearly as much of EU money as they could within the framework of a normal market economy. The loss of confidence that you have said to the previously unorthodox, but in fact, it is the legislation that is used to bring about the downfalls that deters investors from Hungary. They started by making a law under the title of mallstop, that the CBA that put it in the window, that the day of judgment was coming - isn't that a fascistoid text? - to get better laws somehow. Then they realized that the CBA couldn't really benefit from legislation, because they wouldn't have to steal the profits, take them home to the twelfth sports car, but would have to invest again in the shops so that the rats wouldn't run around there, but would work with proper hygiene and be competitive. So they brought out this brilliant miracle weapon, that it's a malltop. After that, it works by asking for permission in your pocket. I did some research. How many do you think they've issued for immunity from the mallstop? Nearly 300. So technically, it's like there isn't, because anyone who checks out and puts down the right conditions - I don't want to refer to direct corruption now, because why would I do it, but puts something on the table - they get permission. At the same time, anyone who wants to come as a new investor sees that a construction ban sign has been posted and doesn't come here. And that was on the investment numbers. The fall in 2012-13 could have been avoided if you had not been practicing this unconscious legislation. With big breasts, Mr. Secretary of State, let's take a look at the wage increases. Well, after six years of starvation, they give you a little raise. It's a terribly late thing. Look at the structure of society. The Hungarian society has been catastrophically torn, the majority has fallen unbearably, and you are immorally using it, fooling the broken layers with a single-key tax, and at the same time expect them not to vote. Or what they say about energy prices is that there's a reduction in the overhead. Well, it's also a terrible scam, because when the so-called overhead cuts were introduced, they were already late. It could have been reduced at least a year earlier, because the financial crisis also resulted in energy prices falling in our environment. It is no coincidence that MET was able to obtain the gas in Austria for half the price, which was then imported by MVM with a special license, and then sold in Hungary not half the price, but more expensive. Thus, the reduction in the cost of electricity was introduced late and slightly, while energy prices on the world market have fallen even further since then. So they could have decreased a lot sooner. Now they're gonna time the energy price reduction for the election, but it's another big scam. So you're abusing the fact that ordinary people don't know that, and you're not guided by good intentions, but by the fact that some circles of friends, such as the HES, are able to benefit as much as possible. They already have such a built-up system that they don't even bring it into the country, they solve the levy on energy prices outside the country. For example, here is the amendment: why are additional sources of health only provided in next year's budget? We need a lot more on the current sources. They're very proud of the state of the ambulance. But the ambulance needs doctors, too. In hospitals there are classes with brand-new European money, where a new corridor cannot be opened because there are no plus two nurses, because they can't hire you, for that amount of money nurses don't go there to work. Work on this, Mr. Secretary, and don't beat your breasts with half a brick, because those who walk outside and suffer from the state of Hungarian health or are involved in education know exactly what the situation is, and they can't flaunt Eurostat numbers, they're living their own situation, and they should help you. I wish you good luck and good health. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-16-144	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr János Latorcai, Vice-President, for two minutes.
u2017-05-16-145	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I am genuinely surprised by the words of István Józsa, his attitude towards this debate. I believe that Minister of State Banai has expressed with extreme restraint, genuine public servant and professional humility all the things that you have sometimes put forward and put forward in your speeches in a way far beyond opposition vehemency. Congressman, you keep using the expression "fascist." [[Dr. István Józsa: Fasistoid!]] He's fascistoid. Well, Mr President, I can only say that the speeches you make, if we turn back history, remind me of some of the Goebbels wordings. So we should think about that, too. Congressman said that in 2008-2009 he gave a budget in good condition... [[Dr. István Józsa: 2009-2010!]] Congressman, tell me how many billion euros of loans we've taken in to avoid bankruptcy. [[Dr. István Józsa: Twelve.]] No, Congressman, no, you're wrong, because once you've had 17...
u2017-05-16-146	Please don't engage.
u2017-05-16-147	We'll continue, thank you.
u2017-05-16-148	No, Mr. Vice President, I'm just asking you not to yell at me.
u2017-05-16-149	I think that a normal, decent attitude on the part of the Secretary of State does not in any way deserve to be dealt with in such a tone, in such a instructive style, so let's talk to him, so let's solve it. In addition, he follows Parliament's best practice of responding to the comments made and giving repeated responses to the responses. I think these are all facts that cannot be passed without saying a word. With all due respect, Congressman, I ask that you give him only what you expect as a human being. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-16-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély for two minutes.
u2017-05-16-151	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, I'm going to ask you back: I'm talking about the section of the M4 Abony. I'm not talking about what you're talking about, Mr. Secretary. I didn't see it in this year's budget or next year's, and I'm telling you, there's 60 billion forints in the ground, and now it's waste. When will this phase continue, and will it even be? It's not going to be a highway anymore, it's going to be a renamed expressway, or I don't even know what they're going to call it at government level. The other: Mr Secretary of State said that I should submit an amendment. We're gonna hand in a million, Mr. Secretary. [[18.30]] We'll give you an initiative to make it a separate line, and then the.17 and the.18 budget. Mr Secretary, I have also tabled an amendment to allow the government to use the amount on the line for the child's meal only for what it is named for. [[Dr. János Harghitai: Named.]] You know, Mr. Secretary, when I bring you to the committee meeting, there are times when you don't get put on the agenda, and every time you get rejected by the pro-government majority. [[Dr. János Harghitai: It's real.]] I just want it to be at the end of the year... No, Congressman. You know what the problem is? When there's residue in it at the end of the year, you will give it to Fidesz municipalities, HUF 3.6 billion. We don't even know why he stayed in it. I mean, I know why you stayed in it, Mr. Secretary. It's just that when I ask for the data on a written question, the Tallai send me out that they're spending $4 billion, and the Rétvári is sending me 6.6. Tell me where HUF 2.6 billion disappears between written questions in 15 days. [[Anita Herring: Obviously in her pocket.]] Something's wrong. You have to understand. [[Dr. János Harghitai: Expertise.]] Do I write down these answers? Then you said he wasn't competent, neither was the Retirement, nor the Tallai! [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Then why don't you two sit down and talk about who's making mistakes in these matters? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-05-16-152	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr István Józsa, MSZP.
u2017-05-16-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Vice-President Latorcai pressed his button and his anger before I, in my words, exonerated Minister Banai as a human being. In the end, I found that it was part of an inhuman machine, so I exonerated him humanly. The Goebbels propaganda, which I continue to accuse the public media, the fidesz media, has an extremely fundamental point, without which Goebbels propaganda cannot be discussed. And that's power. You can only do Goebbels propaganda in power, because the whole point is to suppress all the others. So it becomes exclusive, it pushes, pushes, pushes again, and since you can't hear anything else, it can tolerate it until it collapses. So, with your permission, Mr Vice-President, I will fully excuse Mr. Secretary of State, and I will continue to ask you to serve the Hungarian people, the country, to the best of your professional knowledge, and not this depraved government. Thank you.
u2017-05-16-154	Thank you very much. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Péter Benő Banai, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Secretary of State, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2017-05-16-155	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am trying to respond to what was said in the debate on the 2017 draft budget bill, hoping that we may be able to clarify a few issues and that the groups of the honourable Parliament will support the motion with good conscience. It was a comprehensive question as to whether the budget planning system for the debate and parliamentary adoption of next year's budget bill and related tax and foundational legislative proposals could take place at the end of the spring session. One of the statements was that this system is not for predictability, fictitious figures can only be included in the budget, this budget system is not correct, it is a dreamed budget - such words have been said. I believe that the merits of these claims are not shown by when the draft budget bill will be adopted, but by what implementation will show in relation to the budget adopted. We all know that in your last year, we saw a number of budgets that were adopted in December and which were not due to the budget implemented. We also know that there is experience in adopting the budget during the spring session and implementing it as planned. The 2016 budget bill was such a bill. On one occasion, a numerical amendment was made because the performance of the economy, the implementation of the budget, made it possible for the Honourable Parliament to vote on additional expenditure so that the coverage was available and, in addition, the general government deficit target was met. So I ask that when we evaluate spring planning, we take into account the experience we have had in the past decade or even last year. As regards the attitude of whether it will help the bodies responsible for the implementation of taxes, the tax bodies, the organisations receiving budget expenditure to plan the previous budget planning, I will join the opinions that say yes. Much better to prepare for a change in the tax rule, the use of a budget expenditure if the changes, the items of expenditure and revenue are known not a few weeks, but several months before the implementation of the budget. In this regard, I would immediately respond to the suggestion made by Mr Ritter, advocate. Yes, the amendment of spring budget planning and parliamentary decision, or the amendment of the general government law referred to by the spokesperson, makes it possible either for national minority grants or for other grants to be announced after the adoption of the budget, a legal commitment should be made long before the budget enters into force. I think it does strengthen predictability. Similarly to last year's amendment, the current amendment before the Honourable Parliament, creates the opportunity to carry out extra expenditure by maintaining the often mentioned balance of public finances. Erzsébet Schmuck said that an amendment of 600 billion is needed. No adjustment is necessary. If the Honourable Parliament decides not to amend the budget law, does not accept the motion, the additional revenue will still be achieved, because thanks, among other things, to the six-year wage agreement, we are now calculating that instead of an assumed 3.1 percent increase in the approved budget, the expansion of the Hungarian economy may be around 4.1 percent. I think that predictability has not been undermined by the fact that an agreement was reached in November. Why? Because, compared to the approved budget, the tax rules adopted, the government saw room for open tax reductions and an increase in the minimum wage, a guaranteed minimum wage. This was not carried out by the government as a dictatorship, as it was said on the government side, but sat down with the negotiators and modified in relation to its original proposal, and we were able to sign an agreement, a government, an employee and an employer's side, which creates a favourable position for everyone. Why does it create a favourable situation for everyone? Because, in addition to these macroeconomic figures, we can report a significant increase in minimum wage, guaranteed wage. We can report that employers' burdens are falling, not only the social contribution tax, but also the corporate tax, and, moreover, I repeat, we are preserving the results that we have seen in terms of budgetary stability in recent years. I therefore think that there is no need to amend the budget. The government proposes that, in view of the figures so far, seeing the budget figures for the last four months, knowing the figures for 2016 - because they are known - the Honourable Parliament will use some of the additional revenue to finance the municipal system for educational and health purposes. There was a dispute as to whether the additional revenue should appear as additional expenditure on the allocation of the National Defence Fund or extraordinary government measures. I would like to say to Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet that this very proposal makes it possible that, if the negative global economic processes she mentioned were to occur, the money in the National Defence Fund would be a guarantee for tax cuts and additional expenditures, so as to preserve the stability of public finances again. In other words, the rule of placing in reserve and the use of the National Defence Fund guarantees that we can protect the potential risk. [[18.40]] After all, the statutory provision on the use of the National Defence Fund provides that, after 1 October, it is only possible to use a specified major part of the reserve if we can ensure the stability of public finances. The allocation of the Fund and extraordinary government measures will not be used under the radar. Public government decisions shall provide for the use of these appropriations. I would like to draw the attention of Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély here to the fact that, in my opinion, in my view, it is a responsible budgetary management that, in the framework of the budget adopted by Parliament, while respecting the macroeconomic figures set by Parliament, the government decides, by public decision, on additional expenditure if the funding is available. The congresswoman specifically mentioned church investments. In the Government Decision of 1813/2016 there is a detailed description of the amount of resources available for various ecclesiastical development purposes. The government decided to provide 117 billion forints. [[Dr. István Józsa: Not enough!]] I would add that if the congresswoman looks at the House of Decisions, these public decisions, she will also see that money has also been made available for educational, health or funding of Hungarians' programmes across borders. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó's intervention.]] so that - I repeat - we know the 2016 numbers. On the basis of Eurostat's confirmation, the deficit did not become 2 per cent, but 1.8 per cent, in addition to meeting these surpluses. [[Dr. István Józsa: Hospital debt is 100 billion!]] They were employed in the public sector - Mrs Loránt Hegedűs said different numbers. The number of persons employed in central budgetary bodies is 700,000. In addition, they are employed in public companies and are also included in public works. If we look at the public sector in this broad spectrum, as the Member referred to it, the wage increases are even better, as the minimum wage has been increased in most of the public companies, in addition to the guaranteed minimum wage, and in terms of public works, the wage increase has also been made in recent years and in 2017. In the management of municipalities, there is no doubt that the question is that more money should be spent on a given task. I think that in recent years the funding of the municipal system has been modified so that all areas, typically all areas, have additional resources, and the municipal system can be characterised as a whole surplus. We can remember that before 2010, or if I do not say a government change date, there were significant deficits in the municipal sub-scheme before the new municipal funding system. I think we've managed to make a system transformation here, too. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Bond release!]] that we have also been able to ensure or increase financial stability and the quality of services. With regard to the solidarity contribution, let me mention that in the bill before the Honourable Parliament, we expect additional solidarity contributions because there is greater economic growth. Local authorities have higher local industrialisation tax revenues, and in the system of solidarity contributions, local authorities also contribute to the fulfilment of public tasks. The additional payment of municipalities from the solidarity contribution tax will allow additional funding of the municipal system. The additional resources for investment and the additional resources for operation in nursery funding come from this revenue, and the additional revenue, I repeat, is due to greater economic growth. The notary mentioned that the amount of HUF 10 million was small. A clear distinction should be made here as to whether new buildings, new infrastructures are being created or whether we are focusing on the renovation of existing ones. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's even worse!]] Tens of billions of European Union funds are available to create new infrastructure and new buildings, if my memories do not deceive me. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's right!]] And in the amendment of the draft budget law that we are discussing, we are looking for money to renovate existing institutions. This is why there is this diversity between the renovation and the associated small amount and the creation of the new infrastructure. [[Dr. István Józsa: We did not criticize this!]] In addition, there is an additional source of development, if the Honourable Parliament adopts the proposal, we will also provide additional resources for operation. This does not mean that the original approved draft budget law did not contain a source of funding for daycare operations. It's included, there's been funding for years. What we are now proposing is also improving operational funding. I did not respond to the investment fund, among the suggestions made by Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet. The purpose of the Investment Fund is to provide funds for the preparation of new projects. We see that planning and proper preparation of projects takes considerable time and that resources should be provided to ensure that these plans are as well-founded as possible. Therefore, this €25 billion appropriation is not intended to finance the investment of the National Olympic Centre or the Water World Championship, which is already under construction. By the way, there's a source of this year's budget money. Reduction of the Tao key: a single, 9 percent key; this will benefit all businesses. In small and medium-sized enterprises, during the debate on the tax laws of 2018, I hope that Members have seen that the government is proposing a positive amendment to the taxes available to them. I have to say here that, for example, the proposed supplier programme specifically finances support for small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, in addition to tax changes, the proposal to amend the current budget law of 17 focuses on small and medium-sized enterprises with a separate heading. In education, health care, there hasn't been any withdrawal in recent years. We can barely talk about surpluses, and this is also true of the budget proposal that we have just tabled. Very briefly, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély had a question about the construction of the M4. I will answer the Member's question in writing as to when and how the construction of the Abony-Weapon section can take place. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Thank you.]] I did not, by the way, propose to the Congresswoman that she submit an amendment if she considered it important to include support for children's meals on special appropriations, but, with respect, I suggested that she support the Government's proposal because the presentation of the special allocation is included in the motion. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: God forbid! Dr. István Józsa: The Eriks Bánki would take more!]] Finally, on this issue, I have to say that the withdrawal from the food for children is a measure that the government would not have given money to feed children, which was approved by the government and implemented by the municipalities, so it was not so. There was an example that the available resources were not called off by the stakeholders. However, there is no precedent for the government or the municipality not to implement the rules on free children's meals. If the congresswoman knows this, please indicate where, specifically, what action has been taken. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély: I will send it!]] What I can say on behalf of the government is that the government has never taken funds from the task after 2010. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Ask Secretary of State Tasó.]] I reminded the honourable Members just the opposite: the source of the children's meals has been growing ever since 2010. I therefore think that the Government, with the proposal that has been tabled, wants to ensure the possibility of additional expenditure in a number of areas. We believe that these extra expenditures also ensure a high level of economic growth; in addition, the positive effects of growth are made possible by the motion for a wide range of social groups. In addition to the surplus of education, health care, I could also mention the extra expenditure of pensioners, where the pension premium provided for in a separate law can be paid on a normative basis. And in view of this, I would like to propose to the honourable Members of Parliament that the motion, which, therefore, allows for the provision of additional expenditure with an economic growth of 4.1 per cent, should be supported. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] [[18.50]]
u2017-05-16-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. No one applied for a post-meeting speech. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Coming! We'll be here!]] [[Meeting ended at 6:51 p.m.]]
