u2017-04-03-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 12th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear House, István Hiller, a member of the MSZP Group, applied for a pre-meeting address:, The Lex CEU. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-1	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Parliament, In the depths of things that seem complicated, there is often a simple motive. When someone wants to make the situation seem too complex, but it's actually very simple, it's worth using the Robinson method to find out what's real. Defoe's great work is soon to be 300 years old, and it was published in April. I suggest we pay our respects to this good Englishman by following his example. Looking for the naked truth, Robinson looked at two things: what is evil and what is good. And on this basis he made a great scale, somehow: it is bad that I have been shipwrecked, but it is good that I live; it is bad that I have no clothes, but it is good that it is hot; it is bad that I cannot defend myself against beasts, but it is good that there are no beasts here. The lex CEU is about the same, it's not more complicated than that. In the same way, there is a good chance that we can draw up a true balance sheet, so let us ask these questions together, with the distinction that we members of the Hungarian Parliament must assess from the interests of the country what is good for our country and what is not. Is it good that there is a university of high quality education and internationally recognised research in Hungary? Yeah, it's good. Is it bad for our country if its operation is compromised? Yes, this is bad for Hungary, not only because of the arguments we have heard so far, but also because of the strongest competition in the world today for high-quality knowledge and its acquisition; who gives up such a position is a loser, a loser is not in the best interests of the country. Is it good that as such a university, the CEU is issuing diplomas with high labour market value? Yes, this is good for Hungary, because the past decade has proved that a good diploma still gives, maintains and develops jobs in times of crisis. Is it bad, fellow Members, for our country, if the issue of such diplomas is at risk? Yes, this is bad for Hungary, and it is very bad, because the most important problem of Hungarian higher education is the quality and acceptance of the diploma. Everything that makes this worse is harmful to Hungary. Is it good that CEU has a wide domestic and international network of contacts? Yes, this is good for our country, because it clearly strengthens Hungarian science and raises its international authority, which is why a number of foreign and domestic universities concluded an agreement with it, most recently, just last week at Corvinus. Is it bad, honourable government representatives, if politics interferes with the life of science? Yeah, it's bad, and it's bad for our country. In this case, the international scientific world stands together, and from the president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences to 150 prestigious international professors, including 14 Nobel Prize winners, tells the world that what is happening in Hungary is harmful, is bad, and that is not in the best interest of the country. Is it okay to look for professional answers to professional problems? As surprising as that is, it's good. Good, because this is one of the foundations of the rule of law, and this is good for Hungary. I note that the question raised here is not one of the ten most important problems of today's Hungarian higher education, and it is also clear that everyone who has done a little bit with higher education knows that there is, of course, a different solution to this issue than what you have said here. And finally, is it bad that government policy threatens the functioning of the CEU so that it has no professional, legal or legal basis? Yeah, it's bad, it's bad for Hungary. Whatever they say, the CEU adheres to the legislation in force; the fact that a law that has not yet been passed is more of a sad advertisement for Bacsó's movie "A witness" than a policy for the country. All in all, it is, in our view, that this bill is politically motivated, it is about freedom of education and its violation, and we are therefore against it because it is bad for Hungary. Take it back! Thank you.
u2017-04-03-2	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-04-03-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Mr Vice President, Dear House, The Soros University doesn't fear for its rights. It fears its privileges. [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP. Agnes Kunhalmi: That's not his name! Say your name. Dr. László Varga: Amazing! Foålya, matatos interrogations from the lines of the MSZP.]] , the privileges which are customary in Hungary...
u2017-04-03-4	Please, please, don't start right now. Please. Don't start. Everyone has listened to you nicely, quietly, please do the same. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: We tell the truth, and he lies! There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] If you can't handle your nerves, please step out into the hallway. They start this circus every single time. [[Dr. László Varga: That's enough, you're not in the Fidesz election!]] You can say your five-minute comment, as soon as I give the Secretary of State the opportunity to respond, you will begin to hesitate. [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] That's your opinion, and other people's opinions. Other people think you're lying, but you don't keep yelling at me. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Do not use such words, Mr President, because they are unworthy of this House.]] I'm gonna need you to get the Secretary of State's watch back to square one, and I'm gonna need you to start answering again. [[Nándor Gúr: What do you mean, yelling? How can the President of the Hungarian Parliament speak like that?]]
u2017-04-03-5	Thank you again, Mr President. So we see that the Soros University is in fear of its prerogatives and does not defend its rights in this regard, because every university in Hungary knows that it wants to comply with Hungarian laws, but it seems that there is a university, the Soros University, which does not want to comply with the laws of Hungary. [[Ready, Zoltán: It's true!]] He wants to change these so he can be above the law. I think the last few days' debates have been about the bill itself, which, according to your interpretation, is from the position of the political opposition from which you have criticized the government, you have said your criticism so far, just dragging it onto the CEU, dragging it onto the Soros University. [[13.10]] In many cases, in total confusion between the Central European University and the CEU, while the bill provides so much against which the protest is so loud that a foreign higher education institution can continue training in Hungary if it is provided for in an international contract to support this principle and actually pursues higher education training in the country where it is originally carrying out its activities. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] So if you want to bring a training from a foreign country, a non-EU country, to Hungary, then it is a condition for this training to exist and issue degrees abroad; it is for you to issue a degree here in Hungary as such a posted training, who also issues these degrees abroad. This is a huge disadvantage for Hungarian universities and higher education institutions that both the Soros University and the Hungarian universities operate here in Hungary. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] they only continue their training here, but the Soros University also issues an American degree, and Hungarian universities only issue a Hungarian degree; this, I think, is a clear backward situation for everyone. [[Anita Beringes intervenes.]] No one can put themselves above the law, so neither can George Soros's university. It was also clear, I think, and the angle came out of the bag, when suddenly the Soros University pulled out an educational office decree that everything was found to be in order, and it turned out that this was not a current decision, but a much earlier decision in another matter, but they could deceive the public for six hours, fool people. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] as if they had a fresh license for their regularity, while their own leader had previously admitted these irregularities. Of course, after finding out when this resolution was dated, the Soros University had to admit that it wasn't about this case, it wasn't just born, it was born in a previous case, on a different subject, and then they expressed their intention to hope that such an investigation would be carried out here as well. [[Zoltan is ready to interrupt.]] And when we talk about international donors, what makes us think that these international supporters would have been better informed of these statements; that they would have been told what this bill really is about; what is in this text; or was it just an international hysterical and panicking on this subject? [[Szabó Timea: You do this!]] And, honourable Member, this is how you talk about higher education institutions in Hungary, and not only you, but a lot of speakers in the last 3-4 days, as if there were only one quality university in Hungary, and this is the Soros University. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You wanted to shut down Corvinus too!]] and all the other universities can't get to the university set up by György Soros, it's a huge disdain for all Hungarian higher education institutions [[Dóra Dúró intervenes.]] to all Hungarian universities, that there is only one place, and only one place in Hungary, where there is school leave, there is one place where a quality degree is issued: this is the Soros University, and all the others have been looked down on, you have been classified as second-rate, you, of your own volition. [[Martin Gyöngyösi intervenes.]] So I think that this bill is very good, that it wants to remedy this unfair situation, that it requires everyone to respect the law equally. I do not think that any government can tolerate or tolerate irregular operation, which is why, first, under the new Higher Education Act, there was a comprehensive investigation into the operation of non-Hungarian higher education institutions in Hungary, and because there were many irregularities in Hungary. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: What irregularity?]] Since the heads of institutions themselves have recognised these irregularities even in the case of the Soros University, it is therefore necessary to clarify this situation legally. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] And even if someone is a billionaire, even if someone is an American, they are equally subject to Hungarian law. [[Nándor Gúr and Zoltán Gőgös intervene.]] Lex CEUs, you know, honourable Member, were not adopted at our time, but at your time, when all of its legislative needs were implemented in a tone of silence - perhaps not you, but your predecessor - George Soros, when he asked for this or so in connection with the establishment of the Central European University or the operation of the CEU. And here's another distending: a lot of people are mixing Central European University and CEU. [[Ready Zoltán: You mix alone!]] CEU is an international institution, Central European University, a private-higher education institution in Hungary. Talking about the closure of the Central European University [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] that would probably fail the PISA test to understand the text, because he couldn't read it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] this bill that this does not apply to private universities in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-6	István Szávay, on behalf of Jobbik: what is the CEU case really about? He asked for an opportunity to speak before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-03-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm currently a scholar of the Soros Foundation. Of course it's not some kind of self-detection, I'm not saying it, I wouldn't say that, no representative of Jobbik could have said that about himself in the past; this was said by Viktor Orbán himself in the late '80s. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] in an interview. Unlike you Jobbik, and if there is anyone in this House, Jobbik is the one who has always been consistent in the assessment of the activities of György Soros and György Soros in Hungary and in the assessment of the foundations and institutions associated with it. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Until now!]] And that's us. We have always been consistently opposed to the spirit that largely dominates the CEU. We have always been consistently opposed to the liberalism that undermines our values, the gender madness that tearing up and disrupting our families, which is being taught in this institution. In this matter, we have always been consistent. It was quite amazing to listen to Vice-President Szilárd Németh on the Fidesz channel called the public service this morning. I understand, Mr. Vice President, that you are being paid to lie 24 hours a day. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] But there's a limit to being unscrupulous and unscrupulous when you start selling Soros and talking about George Soros setting foot in Jobbik. There's no one of us that Soros has funded. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: But it is among you!]] The first photocopier of Jobbik wasn't bought by George Soros' foundation, and he didn't launch us on our trip. You are right about one thing, and that is that György Soros really has a great responsibility for how public relations have evolved in Hungary over the last 25 years. And the biggest responsibility for George Soros is that he freed you from the country at the time. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] When Miklós Vásárhelyi was a former cancerist journalist, the governor of György Soros in Hungary, then in the late 1980s, the governor of György Soros granted a scholarship to Viktor Orbán, President László Kövér, Zsolt Németh, József Szájer and Tamás Deutsch, and even Mária Schmidt. If there is a Soros University in Hungary, as the Secretary of State said, then there is a Soros Party, and they are not the parties of Jobbik and not the left, honourable Members. It also shows that the ideological struggle against the CEU, by the way, is completely unreliable. In this Soros case, and in the CEU case, you still haven't come out truthfully and consistently. If you really have a problem with CEU, how can Zoltán Kovács be a government spokesperson and State Secretary? Is his CEU degree good for you? [[13.20]] If you have a problem with the CEU, why do you still pay Mr. Ákos Berzetei, Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the annual HUF 4 million tuition fee for the CEU? Will you withdraw this, Mr. Secretary? Or do I want to continue to pay this 4 million HUF tuition? If anyone is full of Soros's tenants, my fellow Members, it is not the Jobbik, it is you. Of course, that is not what the CEU case is about. Right now, CEU is the victim. Maybe it doesn't matter who the victim is now, right now it's CEU, but next time it'll be someone else. We are not trying to protect the CEU, I would like to make it clear when we disagree with this government arrogance and this Bolshevik type of power that you have established and testify to on this issue. It is no coincidence that none of Jobbik's politicians attended yesterday's protest near CEU. We are not trying to protect the CEU, but we are dealing with the exercise of power and the distraction that you are pursuing. You, ladies and gentlemen, my fellow Members and members of the Government, if you would spend half as much energy on good governance, health, education problems, reducing corruption, raising people in extreme poverty as much time and energy goes away - and the whole Parliament will be dealing with this for a week - that we are responding to false news, we are dealing with fake problems, we are creating artificial enemy images, and we are responding to everyone, then Hungary would not be here. Not to mention how incredibly irresponsible they have touched this whole question. You are talking about the problem of funding higher education institutions from abroad. If you were really interested in this, and really were concerned about the fate of Hungarians across the border, you would at least remember when making such statements and asked yourself whether they would endanger foreign Hungarian higher education. By the way, yeah. It's no coincidence that Victor Ponta has already talked about how good your proposal is and that you should also submit a similar law in Romania. By the way, no Hungarian university in Transylvania has an interstate contract with Hungary, and they do not operate training courses in Hungary. So this attitude is irresponsible. It's a distraction, and it's a huge irresponsible thing to do. If Jobbik will take government in 2018, it will not be popular because it will create false problems and false enemies for itself, but because we will be popular, fellow Members, because we will govern well, because we will use our energy to resolve health, education and reduce corruption. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-03-8	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2017-04-03-9	Honourable Congressman, Mr President, About the Soros University [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: What's his name? Say his name.]] , The Education Office has found that several foreign universities operate irregularly. This situation must be resolved somehow, regardless of who was a former student of the Soros University and who is currently a student. Because you may agree with me that the rules must be followed, and even George Soros' university cannot be above the law. [[Dr. István Hiller: Andy Vajna!]] That is also the basis for the rule of law, honourable Member Hiller. According to the amendment proposed by the Government, a bilateral agreement must be concluded for the operation of a foreign university in Hungary and, if necessary, the government is open to negotiations with the United States. The serious misunderstanding that Sapientia University would have similar problems is a university registered in Romania. I'm sorry you didn't look into that. By the way, I'm a little confused with your speech, because now you can't really know what Jobbik's true position is. That is what you said as a Member of Parliament, but the Vice-President of Jobbik said something completely different on Friday. He said that Soros's university shouldn't be soft on cowards, it should be banned, shut down, and his ruins should be sprinkled with salt. He also said that this university is attacking the foundations of the nation and society. Please take a look at what your own vice president said. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] This was another speech before the agenda, which proves Jobbik's acute identity crisis. There's a reason for that. The bizarre situation is that the left is drawn by a foreigner and Jobbik by a Hungarian oligarch. That's why Jobbik had to give up his former principles. [[There's a constant murmur on the opposition side.]] This is why the government's quota referendum initiative was undermined, therefore the amendment of the Fundamental Law was not voted in favour, and for example, the party president did not vote for tax reductions at the end of the year. It is no wonder that their own voters, their former voters and their members are unable to make a community of themselves. Their core organizations will be disbanded. Last week, for example, the birchturan organization was disbanded. It is worth listening to, honourable right-wing Members, what the former President said about this: they cannot identify with Jobbik's policy of a windcock without faith, and he also wrote that there is a colorless, odorless, meaningless, dreary mind world around this more hopeful task force. According to him, national commitment was overwritten by interests and material thinking. That's what your local people say. But to put it all short, Jobbik is really capable of everything for money and power. For example, it is able to override its former positions of principle without blinking an eye. Take, for example, the issue of food safety: Zoltán Magyar, their representative on TV, says that the issue of food product quality is blown up and there are political goals behind it. This is the same argument you have put forward here, Congressman Savay. But let's see what was in the election program, for example, where you were elected. At the time, they said that a significant proportion of foreign food purchased in large shopping centres is unfit for human consumption, so we stop placing harmful and unidentifiable foods on the shelves. Compared to that, they're saying it's an inflatable question. That's what you said, and now you're saying it's blown up. What kind of couple, I ask, is it that so easily refuses their own election program and ultimately their own soul? [[Agnes Kunhalmi: It's like yours!]] The answer is simple: such behaviour is a characteristic of the parties that have persisted. It seems after all, that the son of an oligarch was looking out for Jobbik: Daddy, buy me the party, and Daddy bought it for me. And since you've bought it, let's just say you're working on it. I read on their recent posters that Jobbik is the party of the people. It's not the people's. No. A billionaire party of Jobbik, a couple deprived of his will. You post posters, your master pays. That's why Jobbik doesn't have a soul. Actually, that's the right sign on the posters, on the ads. Honourable Congressman, There's a lot of things you can do without a soul, but you can't build a political community, you can't work for the country. Once a political community sells its soul, it's very difficult to get it back, even if they get a few thousand posters for it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Noise in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2017-04-03-10	Mr István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, will now take the floor before the agenda. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. I feel that we have come to a point - often mentioned by the LMP - that education policy, the education system, is moving backwards. We've already passed the '70s, but we didn't think the target was Cambodia in the '70s, and you're about to ban the use of glasses, you're on the right track. I am, of course, warning you about the CEU. But considering the national consultations, because national consultations were once again announced according to the customary timetable on national fate issues, as you put it: advertising platforms were purchased in every conceivable place, advertisements were commissioned by the usual companies, and government members and Fidesz politicians were scolding everyone who disagreed with either their whispering, guided questions or manipulated answers. They announced a national consultation for which the answers were given before the questions were asked. It is enough to look at the Prime Minister's assessment of what was said here in Parliament not so long ago. This is what you think a national consultation looks like. Meanwhile, according to the government and paid propagandaists, the Hungarian people are unable to make a decision on the most important decision that will determine the next decades of the country and even the next hundred years, namely the Paks enlargement. The government and paid propagandaists believe that the expansion of Paks is not our concern, citizens. You think it's enough to make decisions over our heads with secret agreements, billions of people who are inaccessiblely spent. The government, according to which the national consultation is the most important issue in Hungary today, talks about the fact that the Hungarian people are unfit to decide on the issue of Paks enlargement. The LMP wants a real national consultation, so we ask the Hungarian people to send a message to the government: they want a referendum on Paks. Therefore, we ask the Hungarian people, who are concerned with the fate of their own children and grandchildren, to complete the consultation sheets on the issue of Paks enlargement, together with the government, to have a referendum on the Paks enlargement. [[13.30]] The government will deliver the consultation package to everyone, with the envelope addressed, free of charge from citizens' money, and we will use it to comply with this tool. Dear Parliament, Everyone in this country knows exactly that it is a matter of political will that Hungarians can decide on the expansion of Paks. The LMP will address referendum questions until the arguments of the National Election Committee run out and there is no alternative but to ensure the right to a referendum. However, this process can be accelerated by making it clear to the government that it does not allow answers to such a crucial issue to be made above its head. Paks enlargement is addictive and deprives Hungary of self-determination. Nuclear power is referred to in Article XX. The error of the century, which we must not take with us in the 21st century. It's a century. Think about it, because the plans, the technology, the fuel, we're also getting it from abroad, and then we're taking the fuel back abroad if they ever manage to sign it, because at the moment, it doesn't even exist. It makes us almost as selfless as importing energy from abroad. Nuclear power is expensive, dangerous, and suppresses development. Hungary could be strong and creative enough to seek an alternative solution to its energy demand. Those who force Paks expansion clearly do not believe in Hungary's abilities and do not trust the citizens of Hungary. It is wrong to think that the Hungarian people can only answer directed questions, with which the government's aim is to show its own position, which has been written for a long time, with the help of expensive propaganda. The government cannot deprive Hungarian people of the right to make decisions about their own future. A referendum on the Paks enlargement! This is Hungary's number one demand today, and the government's duty is to hear the words of the Hungarian people. [[Sallai R. Benedict: That's right! Gábor Fodor and R. Benedek Sallai applaud.]]
u2017-04-03-12	I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-13	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, You are talking about the fact that the Hungarian people are incompetent. No! The LMP is inadequate, as the Hungarian people made a very clear decision in 2014. One of the most important issues in 2014 was the expansion of Paks, thanks to the LMP's political campaign. Then you posted posters with the word "nuclear stop" all over the country and talked about independence, cheaper and sustainable energy. Let's take a look at this three behind which you were able to get the support of 269 thousand people, while the government with Paks capacity-support once again gained the voter's trust by more than 2 million 200 thousand votes. You're talking about independence. If there is no Paks capacity-building investment, then instead of Paks, which represents 60% of the Hungarian energy production, 60% of electricity generation, we have to import either natural gas or electricity. Also inexpensive: today Paks produces 1 kilowatt hour electricity for 11 forints, and the same amount of energy reaches the population for 30 forints. In your idealized German energy policy, the same number is 90 forints/living, so let us be perfectly honest that you want the Hungarian people to pay much more expensively, much more for electricity. Well, finally, he says that they want sustainable energy production in Hungary. The Hungarian energy experts say that there is a need for an appropriate, healthy energy mix to work in Hungary, in which renewable energy sources play a role, it is no coincidence that the government decided to double the production of green energy in Hungary by 2020. There is a need for nuclear energy and a need for an ever faster phase-out of fossil energy. Congressman, you are forgetting the points on which you essentially took your oath here in the Parliament in 2014, when you said that you would represent the Hungarian national interest first of all. From the point of view of a government, Hungarian national interest always means how we can guarantee predictable energy security at sustainable prices. The assumptions you make today about green energy would be double the cost of Paks II. capacity-building expansion. Mr Sallai mentioned in his last speech that the government is not charging the cost of the investment, so when it calculates the return on the Paks and calculates the unit price for the kilowattor, it does not calculate the capacity-enhancing cost that Hungarian taxpayers have to pay for the investment. I would like to note here that the amount of energy Paks II. can be produced after capacity maintenance, which would cost twice as much capacity from green energy, and Hungary would have to invest around EUR 7 billion in order to produce that green energy capacity. The Hungarian people have made a very clear decision. In 2010, they said that Hungarian energy policy should be put on the ground of sovereignty, which is why we decided that the Hungarian State does not connect itself to Russian fuel under the international treaty, but that we have a chance to buy fuel from anyone after the Paks expansion. This means, according to your statement, that if we translate it into a simple everyday life situation, that you say about the Hungarian people who are gassing gas at foreign-owned gas stations in Hungary, that the car they are fueling to get from point A to point B is not theirs, but that it belongs to the companies who are transporting petrol or gas oil into these gas stations. The government supporting the investment in Paks promises predictability and inexpensibility, maintaining the reduction of the rent. On the other hand, LMP promises expensive electricity, promises to increase the country's dependence and an unpredictable economic policy and energy policy that is priceless to the Hungarian people. They should be aware that Hungary is a poor country in terms of the European Union's community, and here, for as long as this situation persists, the primary task of the current government is to create predictability in terms of energy prices as well. The LMP rejects the reduction in overhead costs, LMP rejects cheap electricity, LMP rejects the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, LMP supports everything that is bad for the Hungarian people, so it also rejects the development of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-14	István Hollik is next, a member of the KDNP faction:, Let's say NO to the Strasbourg court. Say your speech with an address. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, For two years now, Europe has been paralyzed by the fact that more than two million migrants have crossed their borders illegally, without any kind of control. This was also the case at the borders of our country in the beginning, mainly Muslim migrants were invading illegally and aggressively. For us, the security of the Hungarian people is the first, which is why the government decided to act with all possible means of law and order to protect its citizens. Last fall 3.3 million people declared in the referendum that they wanted order and security. It is also important to point out that we are always on the ground of the rule of law, and therefore the rules of the physical and legal border closure are in line with the relevant international conventions, even if the Soros organisations are trying to prove otherwise. In view of all this, the decision taken by the Strasbourg Human Rights Court on the two Bangladeshi migrants is shocking and outrageous. As we can get used to, illegal migrants were, of course, protected by a Soros organization, the Helsinki Committee for Immigration, so instead of protecting Hungary and the Hungarian people, they were on the other side again. This decision, I mean, the court's decision, we can't accept it for a number of reasons. Firstly, because the two Bangladeshi migrants had to cross at least nine safe countries to reach the Hungarian border, unless they made part of their journey by plane. You don't think any of us really think they're refugees whose lives would be in immediate danger, do you? We therefore believe that Hungary has every right to reject asylum applications for migrants who are not really refugees, but economic immigrants. Secondly, the European Court of Human Rights will essentially remove the fundamental right of a state, in this case Hungary, to protect its borders and its own citizens. The Strasbourg court, by its decision declaring the Hungarian asylum regime illegal, has gone beyond its own jurisdiction, since we are now being punished for practically complying with the Schengen and Dublin rules. In this case, the Court of Strasbourg has, in fact, made legislation rather than its application, thereby seriously violating Hungary's sovereignty. Think about it: the National Assembly elected by the Hungarian people creates a law that is not contrary to our international commitments, but the Court of Strasbourg does not like this and simply overrides it with its judgment. Where can we live, where can we do that? ! [[13.40]] Let us not forget that this decision was not taken by the Asian court of human rights or by the Bangladeshi court of human rights; if there were such a decision, it would certainly not be possible for them to be held accountable for defending their own citizens by their judgments. However, this decision was taken by a European court. We believe that that is why Europe is in trouble today, because instead of keeping its own borders and protecting the results of the hard work of Europeans, it is putting the rights of migrants crossing borders first. The two Bangladeshi migrants were represented by the Helsinki Commission, they would have to pay HUF 2.7 million, and they would also like to hire six million of Bangladeshi migrants, because there is no need to say where these two migrants are now, no one has any idea. If we pay now, we believe that until the business is over, it will only start, because then we will be attacked in all similar cases, and then they will be able to sue 40-50 billion forints from the pockets of Hungarian families. There are about 15,000 similar cases, 10,000 unauthorized asylum applications have been rejected by the Hungarian State and more than 5,000 illegal immigrants have been detained. In 2010, we set off on a path that leads to a happy, growing nation based on Christian traditions. We can all be proud that thanks to the talent, diligence and hard work of the Hungarian people, we have made much progress. So we have something to lose. The Soros organisations, the liberals, the Brussels federalists who want to take away our sovereignty, are trying to divert us from this path. They want multiculture and an open society, united European states, deprived of national identity, populated with Muslim immigrants. That's what we have to say no to. That is why we are asking the Government not to pay the penalty imposed by the Strasbourg court, to stand by our joint achievements and the security of the Hungarian people. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-16	Mr. Csaba Dömötör will respond again. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The decision of the Strasbourg court is indeed an outrageous judgment, and this decision perfectly shows what it is like to have a very strange coalition between smugglers, some international organisations and so-called defenders. Otherwise, the decision has not only one, but several outrageous elements. First of all, we now understand very well in hindsight why the groups called rights defenders conducted such violent attacks on the Hungarian police officers who served at the border. It may not have been clear a few months ago, but now it is, it is part of the migrant business. The second outrageous element is material in nature. As you know, Hungary has to pay 6 million forints each to the two illegal immigrants, who, by the way, we do not even know where they are. Indeed, it is worth considering the total amount of expenditure for Hungary if all such cases were brought to trial, if we know that Hungary has rejected 10,000 asylum applications since 2015. The most outrageous thing is that the groups called the rights defenders, otherwise funded activists from abroad, made good money on the whole case, such as HUF 2.6 million at the address of the lawsuit in this case. That's a good sum, you could say if it wasn't for the taxpayers. Moreover, they are the same organisations that help immigrants to reach Europe. Those who think that the Hungarian government is alone in the issue of NGOs' transparency, I would like to remind you of the statement made by the Austrian Minister for Foreign Affairs the other day. Sebastian Kurz at Frontex's Maltese base said that the NGO madness must be put to an end. According to the politician, if these activists stopped rescue operations, fewer people would die in the Mediterranean. Kurz justified this by the fact that a number of activist groups are specifically cooperating with human smugglers. Overall, honourable Member, it is very disappointing that the Strasbourg court's decisions promote migrant business; but not only does it promote the long-term business, but also, for example, prison business. It was this court that decided in favor of the mass murderer Breivik, the lunatic who took the lives of almost 70 children. According to him, and that's why he sued the Norwegian State, he was treated in an inhuman and humiliating manner, thereby violating his human rights. The Court of Strasbourg ordered the Norwegian State to pay, among other things, HUF 11 million in litigation costs. There were similar prison lawsuits at home, by the way. With the help of lawyers, hundreds of Hungarian criminals filed lawsuits, saying that Hungarian prisons are not comfortable enough. As a result, they were sometimes awarded millions of compensation and litigation costs at the expense of Hungarian taxpayers. The MSZP could, I think, talk about it, because one of their favorite lawyers was in this party. From these examples, too, it is clear that in many cases the Court of Strasbourg is making life-stranger decisions, and therefore the operation of this court must be reformed. By the way, we are not alone in this demand, because, as far as we know, this is what France has suggested earlier. I can promise you one thing: the government will appeal against the judgment of the Strasbourg Court, we will not allow them to override the Hungarians' will by exceeding the powers and make life-stranger decisions. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-18	The last speech before today's agenda will be presented by Congressman Gergely Gulyás, member of the Fidesz Group, entitled "National Consultation." Here you go.
u2017-04-03-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, It is known that the government is launching a national consultation on five very important issues. These are issues: keeping the regime on rent in the hands of the state, the issue of illegal immigration, the issue of transparency for social organisations, the issue of job creation and the issue of tax reduction. We know that these issues determine the everyday life of Hungary to a significant extent, and we know that there have been a great deal of struggle over the last year in order to move forward, partly so that the government can enforce its regulatory rights vis-à-vis multinational companies present in Hungary and partly so that these powers can remain with the Member States at all. If we look at the fact that, in the area of regulatory pricing, which is a fundamental condition for reducing the costs, we can say that a Commission proposal has already been made, which would take away the right to set prices for electricity from the Member States and put it into EU and Community competence. This would be the first step that the Commission would make virtually a reduction in the costs for the future for the Member States impossible. We believe that a first step like this would create a dangerous precedent; first, the Hungarian government and the Hungarian state would lose the right to set the electricity price, but in the longer term, there is a good chance that this process would continue. So we believe that, in order to ensure that this important Member State competence, which is a condition for reducing the rent, remains in the hands of the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament, we need to take a uniform action against this. We therefore ask all the members of the political groups and the Hungarian citizens to speak on this matter, to support the government's efforts to give the current Hungarian government the opportunity to set the prices of the bills, including electricity prices, at an official price. [[György Balla: Good!]] We also see that there is also a debate on the transparency of social organisations. We can say that in the specific case, it is clear from the reactions that the executioner is now being hanged, because we demand nothing but and only transparency. [[István Szávay: CÖF! Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] We would like transparency to be extended to all organisations supported from abroad, I would add, as is the case with publicly funded organisations, as public spending is a public interest figure, and even civil society organisations receiving more than HUF 50 million in state support over HUF 50 million have an obligation to declare assets from the Hungarian State. Compared to this, our Transparency Bill provides for only one requirement for civil society organisations to know exactly who, where, who supports, what support they receive from abroad. We regard this as a key issue, and therefore we expect those who constantly demand transparency in the operation of the Hungarian state, in the operation of Hungarian state companies, to enforce it for themselves. Finally, in the case of illegal immigration, we now know that there are absolutely no-go zones in Western Europe, as the German Chancellor, at the weekend North Rhine-Westphalia campaign meeting, held the Social Democratic Prime Minister of the Province responsible for the fact that there are no-go zones in North Rhine-Westphalia, and if so, it might be good to avoid parallel societies and the creation of no-go zones in Hungary. However, it is also extremely important to be able to put a real stop to the legislation called the application of the law that the Court of Strasbourg is carrying out. [[13.50]] The recent decisions of the Court of Strasbourg no longer apply the correct text of the European Convention on Human Rights, but, as a further development, they also consider those rights as part of the inhumane and degrading treatment that no one has or intends to grant to anyone. Just as we cannot accept that a transit zone that can be left freely in one direction would be considered a closed camp. We believe that the case in the case of the two asylum seekers in Bangladesh is a precedent on which the Hungarian Parliament and the competent committees of the Hungarian Parliament must form their views. The objective is to remain clearly within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights and not to allow the Court of Strasbourg to legislate far beyond the scope of this Convention in practice. Therefore, the Fidesz faction wishes to make proposals that allow Parliament and the competent committees of Parliament to discuss the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-03-20	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, has the floor again.
u2017-04-03-21	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, You yourself have pointed out that there are many disputes between the European Commission and Hungary. If I wanted to summarize them in one word or in one sentence, the underlying reason is that Brussels would quietly withdraw powers from the Member States, including Hungary, in different areas. In this effort, we think Brussels must be stopped. Thus, participation in the consultation is not only an expression of opinion, but also a stand for the independence of the country. We have seen well in recent years that Hungary is under ever more intense attacks, above all due to immigration policy. Even a few weeks ago, the Commissioner responsible for migration said that resettlement programmes are an important instrument of EU policy that needs to be speeded up, he said that there was a referendum in Hungary in the autumn where 98 percent of Hungarian citizens said no to quota. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: It's not true!]] The failed immigration policy is also characterised by the misguided judgment in Strasbourg that we have just spoken about. The consultation concerns, of course, other issues, including energy prices, the definition of tax and wage policies, employment policy, as well as the transparency of organisations funded from abroad. Dear House, In the last few days, in the last few weeks, there have been voices that say that these are not essential issues, nor are they relevant. Perhaps that's what Congressman Ikotity was referring to. The same people who said two years ago that immigration is not a problem or a fake problem, as the MSZP said. They also said that the border closure is not necessary, and the resettlement quota does not exist. On the other hand, time has confirmed the government over the last two years. One year in 2015, one and a half million immigrants arrived in Europe [[Intercoms from the ranks of the MSZP: Escaped!]] The border closure is an effective modification of the migration route, and the quota is still not off the agenda, whatever the Commission has to say. Since we are dealing with issues concerning national sovereignty, I think that we can rightly expect opposition parties to take sides, for example, we are curious about the opinion of the Socialists who are thinking about raising taxes, and what is Jobbik's opinion, which took up an initiative a few weeks ago that would take powers away from Hungary. Most honourable right-wing Members, if you are demanding that wage policy be at EU level, it would draw tax policy with it. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: You misunderstand! Can you read?]] And that would be good for the big companies. I would also like to say here that tax cuts have enabled wage increases that are currently under way. One Commissioner, the consultation is about issues that concern national sovereignty, and we count on the participation of all those who believe that it is essential to protect borders, who believe that it is important to take action against migrant business, those who would not release the right to determine taxes, coppers and wages from the hands of Hungary, and those who wish to have clearer and more transparent relations with the networks funded from abroad. Dear House, The government's national consultations aim to put disputes on the table with Brussels, because we think that there is a better honest dialogue than squinting. It is much better to hold debates in time on individual issues than to call into question the entire EU cooperation, as has happened in the case of Britain. We often say this, but it may not be enough that we want a strong Europe, but Europe can only be strong if it is able to correct its mistakes and if it is able to protect its communities and culture. By making the wrong decisions, we prove that we are interested in the fate of Europe and in the future of Hungary. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-03-22	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2017-04-03-23	Dear Parliament, Tamás Pintér, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Márta Demeter, independent. On Tuesday, the following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda: Ákos Hadházy, LMP; László Szakács, MSZP; István Apáti, Jobbik; Rózsa Hoffmann, KDNP; Zsolt Németh, Fidesz. Gergely Kulcsár, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Sándor Burány, MSZP. On Wednesday, Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik applied for a speech after the agenda.
u2017-04-03-24	Dear Parliament, I declare that in the case of Bernadett Szél, R. Benedek Sallai and István Ikotity LMP representatives and Gergely Kulár and Zsolt Egyed MPs, the decision of the Speaker of the House concerning the reduction of the due fee was maintained in the scope of the immunity committee. In view of this, the Parliament Act 51/A. Pursuant to Article 9 of the Act, Members have asked the Parliament to repeal the decision on the reduction of the fee. In view of this, these decisions will be added to the agenda of our meeting starting today, which will take place in the course of tomorrow's decisions. Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. We are now deciding on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. By way of derogation from the house rules, the House Committee initiates that Parliament, when negotiating legislative proposals and proposals for decisions to be submitted using the parliamentary IT system of legislation, departs from the House Rules of Decision so that, if, on the basis of the resolution of the House Committee on the electronic submission of certain documents, the Speaker agrees with the paper submission at the request of the national speaker, the House Rules of Decision 34 shall apply. In order to ensure that the deadlines set out in paragraph 1 of Section 1 apply - the day specified by the Speaker shall be allowed until midnight. Proposal for a derogation from house rules H/14785. You can get to know him on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House contributed by 156 votes to five, with one abstention, to a derogation from the house rules. Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. On this basis, the motion put forward by the President initiates the political debate to reduce wage differences between the Member States of the European Union, V/14429. The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals in a four-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. At the request of the Fidesz, KDNP, MSZP, Jobbik and LMP groups, the house rule is 37. Paragraph 4 states that the time frame available to the political group will be doubled in the event of the adoption of a time-frame negotiation. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the motion to split the time frame.
u2017-04-03-25	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed timeframe, in the light of the timeframe increases, is as follows: 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group to start doubling, i.e. a total of 164 minutes; 45 minutes for the MSZP Group to double, i.e. a total of 90 minutes; 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group to double, i.e. 82 minutes; 38 minutes for the KDNP Group to double, i.e. 76 minutes; 24 minutes for the LMP Group to double, i.e. a total of 48 minutes; and 10 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2017-04-03-26	Dear House, Now it's time for the decision. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that the presentation will be discussed within the time frame described by the notary and modified on the basis of the request of the factions. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] [[14.00]] The proposal was adopted by 138 votes to 24, with 1 abstention. Dear House, We are now deciding on the amendments to the agenda. The MSZP and the LMP Group suggested that the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. T/14686. We shall not begin the trial of bill No 1 at our meeting starting today. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote. It's a lot of noise.]] I find that the visible majority of Parliament has rejected the proposal. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I did it!]] On a point of order, Mr Bernadett Szél asked for the floor.
u2017-04-03-27	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, With reference to the house rules, it's the 25th. With reference to paragraph 3 (b), I would like to ask you to repeat this vote using a ballot counting machine. With reference to point (b) of paragraph 1 of this Article, I would like to ask that we repeat this vote using a ballot counting machine. (Applause in the benches of opposition parties. - A voice from Jobbik's benches:
u2017-04-03-28	We will repeat the vote with the help of a voting machine. Once again, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees with the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. T/14686. The general discussion of the legislative proposal No 1 shall not take place at this meeting. Anyone who agrees, or who doesn't agree, press the button now! [[Vote.]] The proposal to amend the agenda was rejected by the House by 30 votes in favour, 115 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, The Government initiated an exceptional procedure for the National Assembly to discuss the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. T/14686. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting amendments until the third hour after the decision on the exceptional procedure has been taken, the consolidated debate will take place on the agenda item 1 of tomorrow's sitting, as well as the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on tomorrow's meeting. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, that is to say, 100 Members. So I will ask this House whether it accepts T/14686. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 115 votes in favour, 49 against and without abstentions. [[A voice from the independent ranks: Shame on you! Take it back!]] Dear Parliament, In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted for 17 hours 4 minutes, the consolidated debate will take place on tomorrow's sitting as item 1 and the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear House, The Fidesz Group has proposed that decisions be taken at the earliest 12.30 a.m. on tomorrow's meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that the 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish. T/14681. T/14680 on the day of tomorrow's meeting on the amendment of certain domestic laws. After the general debate on the legislative proposal No 1 has been concluded. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that the 2014 XXII on advertising tax. T/14684. The general discussion of the legislative proposal No 1 shall not take place at this meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote hand raise. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear House, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. Before the decision is taken, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in view of the amendments to the agreed agenda, the proposals planned for Wednesday's sitting will be discussed by the Parliament on Tuesday, so Wednesday's sitting will not take place. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the designated National Defence and Police Committee to ask B/14514. For the decision of the secret submission No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament asked the designated committee by 111 votes in favour, 52 against and without abstentions. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat will be replaced by Attila Gelencsér.]] Dear House, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Now, at 2:07 p.m., we're going to proceed to the discussion of interpellations, immediate questions. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What steps are being taken to stop the increase in diabetics in Hungary? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-03-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Of course, I could have given this interpellation the title of what you are doing for diabetics in Hungary today. A lot of people come looking for us in our host hours. We have had a lot of nightclub parties with diabetes, conversations with their bodies, and a lot of questions. Obviously, we know that this is one of the most important metabolic disorders of which the I and II. Type 1 diabetes has different therapies and other treatments. In 2004, the number of diabetics in Hungary may have been estimated at half a million, and since then nearly 800,000 people have been struggling with this disease, and besides them, it is likely that the II. The number of patients with type 2 diabetes who do not necessarily develop symptoms is estimated at about 390 to 400 thousand, so those who have not already been admitted to the doctor are not registered and we do not know if they are diabetic. What we see is that they have a lot of problems, and they ask us a lot of questions when we meet them. Therefore, I would like to say these to the Secretary of State in the framework of the interpellation. Exactly how many I and II are there? Is there a type of diabetic patient on the list today? How has the number of patients changed since 2010? How many people are treated with vasoconstriction, and exactly how many amputations have been performed in recent years as a result of diabetes? How many people die every year in Hungary of diabetes or its complications? What steps have been taken to prevent it in the last year? What is the amount of support within the health insurance system for diabetics? In Hungary today, what subsidies can be applied for for various diabetes, and in what way does the state support products that can also be consumed by diabetics? Do you plan to launch or support any health education programme within the framework of the government's work? I am asking this because we see that, while the best care for diabetics in the European Union, say Sweden, and Bulgaria is the most effective, Hungary is back to the last; 17 of the 28 Member States is now Hungary in terms of diabetes care. We believe that this is what we are dealing with, and this is what the government has to do, so I look forward to Mr. Secretary of State's reply with honor. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of MSZP. That's right.]] [[14.10]]
u2017-04-03-30	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-04-03-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Diabetes is indeed one of the diseases of our time, so it is always worth mentioning. Some of the data you requested is available. For example, if you look at how the number of diabetic patients treated with vasoconstrictive disease has evolved since 2010, you can see that it has decreased from 5689 to 5363. If you look at how many amputations have unfortunately been performed in patients with diabetes in 2010 and 2016, you can see that this number has decreased from 3387 to 2993. However, it is clear that we are spending more and more of the common register on the treatment of diabetics and funding of the treatments: from HUF 35 billion to HUF 48 billion, the amount that the government can use for the treatment of diabetics has increased. Exactly how many diabetics you have, and there's usually an estimate of what you said, and I think that's an estimate. There are other calculations, which show up to a hundred thousand in scale, but that this is an important question for many, many hundreds of thousands of people, that is absolutely certain. This is why the government has decided that it is obviously one of the most important factors here to raise health awareness, to promote healthy lifestyles, as this can prevent diabetes, and obviously treatment has an important role to play. On the one hand, our important bastion is the comprehensive development of basic care, to which the government now spends 42 percent more than in 2010, and the creation of a network of completely new health development offices, since here they can get a lot of advice and help for free, because they do not have to go to outpatient clinics with referrals, but here they are given free and growing form - because now they can go to 60 offices, then they can go to hundreds of them - and they receive dietary advice, training on diabetes and consulting. We hope that this will help many to prevent and treat diabetes. However, there are basic causes that lead to diabetes, which is obviously also important for treatment. That is why we have taken decisions such as the Dietary Health Package, some of which was on the table here in Parliament, and on the other hand it has appeared in regulations; the popular health product tax, or more popularly called the Chips Tax, which is also trying to put the consumption of high-sugar, unhealthy foods in the background. On the one hand, the restriction of the content of trans fatty acids or the regulation of public catering seeks to eliminate convenience products, various over-sugared syrup or other foods with over-sugared sweeteners from the system of feeding, so that they can get used to other flavours, improve their health, and this regulation has paid particular attention to ensuring a lively diet for children or elderly people with diabetes. We had an important objective of expanding the range of foods that could be integrated into a healthy diet. Here fresh fruit, fresh vegetables, has appeared to a greater extent in schools for a year and a half now, through the new Catering Regulation. Each day's physical education also serves to deepen the healthy way of life, and also to ensure that products that fall within the scope of the chip tax are more dangerous to health, that they cannot be marketed in school buffets or in school vending machines, precisely so that we can prevent diabetes in children, both in food and beverage machines and in school buffets. In addition, many of our other projects are running in OGYÉI [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] First of all, about the importance of eating breakfast, the pattern menu, and I could tell you how many more areas. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-32	I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2017-04-03-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not accept the answer because the Secretary of State, as she did in reply to a written question last week, has struggled about as much with the data. None of them were right, but I'll help you. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Which was wrong?]] Last year, the government didn't spend $48 billion, and now it's at your expense, by the way; the government spent $59 billion. But do you know how much the patients spend? They're spending 190 billion on their own disease. The Hungarian government and the Hungarian budget do not reach a third of this by helping them to feel better. They spend more on basic care, no GP, 287 practices are empty [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: None of them are empty!]] The health development offices, which you have talked about for a long time, are about to be closed now, and we will be talking about catering and chip tax in the following areas. You're having trouble with the data because you don't know how to do it, and I think your current response was a perfect example of that, just like last week. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-03-34	I ask the House whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 108 votes to 35, with no abstentions. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. How many more aliens are being deployed? It's an address. In reply to the interpellation, the Prime Minister entrusted the State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, Tállai, with responsibility and competence according to the subject. The congressman has the floor.
u2017-04-03-35	Mr President, Dear House, While the governing parties have in recent years submitted a bill that makes it easier for multinational companies to install foreign workers in Hungary, obviously in addition to guaranteeing housing benefits and subsidies, it can also be said that a statement on the need to import Ukrainian labour was made from the mouth of the governing and pro-government leaders. However, Hungary has a real, real hidden resource, which could provide a solution to the housing problems and housing poverty of Hungarian young people, Hungarian middle-aged people, as hundreds of thousands of Hungarian properties are empty and unused, and although we know that many of these are located in depopulated small areas, we also see that solutions need to be found for urban, capital and metropolitan runaway sublet prices, and in this case the exploitation of tens of thousands of vacant properties would provide a realistic alternative to bringing them back to Hungarian life. To give you an example: your public work programme would make sense in several areas, either by improving the vacant property or by starting a public-based housing programme, which we have been calling on you not only during the budget period for seven years, but every time possible, since it would cost you a relatively minimal budget line compared to its positive contribution. We also see that, according to the latest statistics, we are also at the forefront of Europe in terms of the number of young people who are forced to live with their parents and are unable to find another solution, and I do not want us to stay at the forefront, so it is obvious that a solution must be found. Jobbik does not think about the use of privately owned real estate either, in an understandable way, but both state-owned and municipal-owned real estate that must be exploited. And we are quite simply confused about the fact that the government does not seem to know the spread of Community types of farming, the answers to that. So the fact that thousands of real estate were removed from the rental market through various sharing sites met with the government's wonder that rent fees had started to increase. We find it amazing that over the years, not only did they not move towards regulation, but they pretend that this problem does not exist, as if it were acceptable and natural for a young person who wanted to study in Budapest to pay 130-150 thousand HUF extra for a rent, which is quite amazing. So let the question arise, and even the questions arise. How does the government intend to alleviate the lack of available priced rentals? Do you have any plans for the exploitation of vacant property? And do they even have ideas about reducing the willingness to emigration in relation to housing poverty? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-03-36	Mr. András Tállai has the floor.
u2017-04-03-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to draw attention to a social situation in Hungary, to social conditions, because Hungarian people like to live in their own homes, to live in them, and to shape their lives in such a way that, if they have the opportunity and the opportunity and the conditions are created, they are primarily thinking about living in their own apartments. This is also proven by the figures, since 86 percent of the apartments are privately owned, and so many of the Hungarians live in private homes, which, by the way, makes us at the forefront of the European Union and exceeds the EU average. By the way, you also acknowledge in your interpellation that the use of private, vacant properties cannot be influenced by the State, but at the same time, when regulating the rental market, you expect the State to enter into what is regulated by the market. I've only drawn attention here to the contradiction of your interpellation. [[Z. Carpathian intervention by Daniel.]] [[14.20]] As regards the measures taken by the current government, I would like to list some of them, which were born in the spirit of what I said, that Hungarian workers must primarily acquire own property. One of the most significant decisions came into force from January 2016, namely to reduce the VAT rate to 5 per cent. This obviously makes it cheaper, more attractive to get a place to live. The second major decision is the creation of a family home-building discount, with significant State aid in the form of a tax refund, in the form of other different instruments. I think that the greatest help, however, is to put Hungarian workers in a position where they can have adequate income and develop their existence. I would like to mention only two decisions: the debt reduction programme, which has reduced the amount of outstanding debts by more than 50 percent and foreign exchange loans, and the fact that real income has been increasing for years now. This includes increasing family tax relief and reducing the personal income tax rate. I would like to say that the Hungarian government has also created opportunities for socially dependent people and families, as the public tenant is present in this area, i.e. in the social field, as the operation of the National Asset Manager has created 35 thousand public tenants, in which we provide accommodation for 160 thousand people in need of social care. I would like to say that these measures also have the effect of achieving results, as 40.5 thousand families have submitted their applications for the CSOK, for example, requiring more than HUF 100 billion. In addition, it is a very important achievement that more than ten thousand apartments have been built in Hungary over the past year, which means an increase of 31 percent. And an even greater result, with which we are first in the European Union, is that the number of building permits issued has increased by two and a half times in 2016, to 31,500, and, as I said, we are in a leading position in the European Union. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I believe that the government has done everything in its power to help with the housing problems. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-38	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2017-04-03-39	Mr President, Dear House, It's a rare applause in the ranks of the governing parties, because, Mr. Secretary, if you don't understand something, it doesn't mean it's a contradiction. I was talking about the fact that if a public-based housing program were to increase the supply side, so that the number of apartments on the supply side would be reduced with reduced supply scarcity. If you don't understand, hire an expert to explain it to you, because this is the first semester of the first period. I can't believe you don't get it. And we also have to say: when you think that Hungarians like to live in a private apartment, you lie with a noble simplicity. For young Hungarians it would also be an option to rent at affordable prices, even to increase mobility, but you simply cannot handle the amazingly emerging processes in the rental market, you cannot create a rental building program, while it would take 20-25 years for a young person to acquire a single home in the climate and conditions you create. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So don't hide with residential properties, don't hide with international statistics, because there's not enough of what you're doing. I don't accept your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-03-40	I ask this House whether they will accept the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 103 votes to 32, with no abstentions. Szél Bernadett and István Ikotity, representatives of LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:. Who pays the bill for a nuclear accident? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2017-04-03-41	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The government still calls the planned Paks expansion a good idea even after the European Commission has authorised State aid for the investment, i.e. the government's ability to pass the envelopable loss on to taxpayers. However, in the common language, the term "good business" is not used for loss-making projects and is only mentioned if profit can be expected in the knowledge of all costs. In the case of Paks, however, no one knows all the costs, for example, insurance has not even been mentioned. And they don't talk about who's paying the bill for a possible nuclear accident. However, it is not a negligible item, for example, the liability insurance for the current Paks blocks costs approximately half a billion forints a year and covers HUF 24 billion per damage event. At first glance, this amount may seem a lot, but it's actually ridiculously few. During the accident in Fukushima in 2011, the first damage estimate was about HUF 28,000 billion, i.e. more than a thousand times the difference between the damage there and the Hungarian insurance amount. If the actual risk had to be paid, it would cost more than 500 billion a year and probably not even a single insurance company would take it. At the same time, it is not theoretical. Insurance companies now calculate that an accident of the weight of Chernobyl or Fukushima takes place every 20-25 years in the nuclear industry and prices their services accordingly. And unfortunately, we already have a Hungarian example: the files of the Paks reactor accident in 2003 were encrypted by the Orbán government, and it is not willing to reveal either the size of the damage or who paid for it, but it is certain that the 24 billion I mentioned earlier, and what is covered by the liability insurance of the power plant, this is a much greater amount, because if it were a lower amount, it would certainly have been reported. You described the 2003 Paks reactor accident as a minor malfunction, and it is also obvious that taxpayers had to reach into their pockets because they wouldn't keep secrets. One word, like a hundred: in the nuclear energy industry hundreds and thousands of billions are flying when it comes to damages and insurance companies are willing to finance only a fraction of the actual payments. So please comment on the insurance costs of Paks II. in the case of a future accident, the amount of damage that will be reimbursed by insurance; and who will pay the costs if the real damage in the event of a future accident is much, even more, than the amount covered by the insurance. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-04-03-42	Nándor Csepreghy will answer. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-43	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, I suggest that you get rid of your speechwriters at all costs, because they either lie or refuse to acknowledge their material errors, which we have tried to draw your attention to here in Parliament and in other forums. On the one hand, the document issued by the European Commission does not say that Paks will generate losses and even says how or how the Hungarian State can benefit from Paks, separately from the MVM Group, the operator of Paks I. The European Commission says that the return on the 1 percent profit gap, which is in favour of a market investment and capacity maintenance supported by the government and supported by the Hungarian Parliament, does not make the investment profitable for market investors and would therefore not make such a decision. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Member is not wind energy. sits in his supervisory board, but in the Hungarian Parliament, where in theory he took an oath to serve the interests of the Hungarian people. And if we look at the figures, it would be worth drawing up a document from the German Court of Auditors, which says that German citizens have paid EUR 23 billion in recent years, i.e. EUR 23 billion, to support renewable energy sources in addition to their capacity utilisation. And as a consequence, while Hungarian citizens pay a price of HUF 31 per kilowatt for domestic electricity, which is partly produced in Paks, this results in HUF 92 for German citizens. [[14.30]] It is no coincidence, regardless of whether you do not acknowledge this, that the European Community, as well as a number of large and decisive states on the energy market, has decided, among other things, to maintain its nuclear power plant capacity. Why? For example, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant or nuclear power itself can deliver zero-percent emissions in terms of emissions. If you look at the calculation that you do not take into account or look at the policy that you would like to impose on Hungary, then, compared to the current price of HUF 31, a Hungarian citizen would have to pay approximately HUF 57 per kilowattor for electricity per kilowattor, which I think clearly shows that LMP represents the interests of wind lobby and wind companies, despite the fact that wind energy is not profitable with its current technological development. 20 percent of the wind power plant capacity installed so far in Hungary is exploited, and it is not a coincidence that where there is no state aid, this type of investment will not take place. The congressman also asked about liability insurance. Allow me to answer that, too. The Hungarian Electricity Works Paks Nuclear Power Plant Ltd. you have liability insurance in accordance with your legal obligation, and as you may know, Mr Paks II. Right now, he's in a preparatory project phase. Here the Russian party, as a general contractor, must also have professional and general liability insurance. Both comply with international standards. I would also like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that the Hungarian Paks Nuclear Power Plant is constantly being examined by national and international authorities from a security point of view, and in any case the Paks Nuclear Power Plant has been able to obtain the highest safety rating in recent years, and this will continue to be the case after the development of capacity-building blocks. Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-03-44	I'll return the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-04-03-45	Dear Secretary of State, If you didn't work as State Secretary, you'd be an excellent skating rink operator, because of all the slides, Mr. Secretary of State. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] I don't know how you can tell me with a face like that. Let's take a look at these facts you've listed. Obviously, it is quite clear that the liability insurance, as I said, does not correspond to it, is a thousand times the difference based on the above mentioned Fukushima example. Mr. Secretary. Why don't you answer the simple question, why don't you go public about the cost of the 2003 accident? It is clear, it is clear from the records there that a chain reaction could have been very easy to start there, and they were on the verge of it. How much did that cost? By concealing this, they make it quite clear that this is a matter of items that are not paid by the insurance company. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They're trying to get me to pay off the taxpayers' money. I don't accept the answer, Mr. President.
u2017-04-03-46	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 107 votes to 15, with 16 abstentions. Dear Parliament, László Salacz, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister:, When can we see you in a pure SEVIÉP case? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2017-04-03-47	Dear Secretary of State, More than HUF 34 billion in public procurement under socialist governments went bankrupt because of its 11 billion-dollar debt. The scandalous construction company has a thousand ties to László Botka and the socialists. Although the mayor of Szeged first denied that the city had a contractual relationship with Szeviép, the news programme of the TV2 Facts and then the Népszava, but as it turned out, not a word of it was true, as several projects were carried out with the company that later fell, worth HUF 9 billion. The Sevíép Structure and Water Building Private Limited Company was well equipped with public or municipal orders between 2005-2010, which was won by public procurement alone or in a consortium. Seviép was liquidated in 2010 after successfully avoiding payment deadlines for years. They recruited new and new subcontractors instead of those to whom they had not paid, and then they did not receive their money. Finally, they left 11 billion in debt to 500 subcontractors. Some have lost their entire half-year turnover. The three owners and senior officials of Seviép are being prosecuted for bankruptcy offences because they were the ones who granted loans to various companies or private individuals. It is interesting that one third of the 1.5 billion loan was granted to a subsidiary of Sevíép, the manager of which was the driver of the Socialist MEP István Ujhelyi. [[Interviews from the benches of Fidesz: Jesus, Mary!]] We may not be surprised that this company is also in the process of liquidation. László Botka cut the ribbon of the new Seviép building itself, which was rented by the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development for HUF 5 million a month, and the same happened to the peaceful building in Csaba, which is linked to the group of companies. It appears that everyone in the area of Seviép had money and everything at the time, except, of course, for the payment of subcontractors. With all due respect, I ask the Secretary of State when we can see you clearly in the Sevié case. What are the consequences of making statements contrary to public interest data by a mayor? Who might be involved? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-03-48	On behalf of the Government, the answer will be given by Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, In order to be clear, I predict the need for MSZP and László Botka, but the case you refer to highlights a rather interesting phenomenon, namely that despite the fact that the socialists have not been ruling for years, the corruption skeletons have been falling out of the closet. [[Deterioration from the benches of the MSZP.]] Seviép's case isn't the only one, by the way. Because we remember well how the Hungarian industry was played half priced; we remember the unjustified valley bridges, the tunnels built in the wilderness, or the network of fake associations. These all proved that the period of left-wing governance was the most corrupt period since the change of regime. As for the Seviép case, it would really be nice to see it clearly here. The investigation is the responsibility of the authorities, but it would be the easiest thing to do if the socialists cleared the case, because 11 billion forints were lost; 500 entrepreneurs were not paid, many of them were actually destroyed. This company has received orders of billions of dollars during socialist governments. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP, including: from Lazarus, the first Orbán period?]] In this case, István Ujhelyi's MSZP representative may be an interesting and key driver. Let's hope it's not a Gyusian taxi driver like the Key Price case, who not only carried people, but also serious sums in dubious circumstances. In any case, the circumstances are very, very strange. This driver admitted in criminal proceedings that he borrowed 1-2 million forints from Seviép every week for two years. Meanwhile, he was the managing director of a subsidiary of the company. The question arises as to what this man might know, and why this borrowing or borrowing was necessary at all. One thing is certain: on behalf of László Botka and in his confidence this man has been Szegedi Közlekedési Kft. since 2014. Head of his aviation business. It makes the picture of László Botka lying all over the place in this case. [[Zoltán Pride: You're scared, aren't you?]] First, he denied that the municipality had a contract with this company at all, while the city of Szeged paid the company only HUF 2 billion in May 2010. A lot of things could have happened, and it also shows that the man who called for compensation at the meeting of the Szeged municipality a few days ago and demanded a committee of inquiry was taken in handcuffs. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Because he was a villain! He was a fool...]] This is how László Botka interprets democracy, Honourable Congressman Haughty! [[Zoltán Grimlock to Károly Kontra: Karcsi, are the police to blame? Protect your cops! Why don't you protect your cops? He wasn't handcuffed by Botka, he was handcuffed by the police!]] It's good to know that the MSZP is still a party of eye-shooters and policemen inciting citizens. [[Zoltán Gőgös towards Károly Kontra: Why don't you stand up and protect him...]] Honourable Congressman, Under these circumstances, [[Zoltán Grimlock: Who cuffed him? The Constables of Kontra... Károly Kontra: I don't have any policemen, the country has policemen...]] Everyone rightly expects the MSZP to clarify the Seviép case, but it is the party's candidate for Prime Minister. [[Zoltán Grumpy: Don't be such a jerk...]] And once you're on the move, I want you to clear up other things. Explain a few other things, such as where a third of the 400 billion metro investment has gone and who are responsible. Dear Congressman Haughty, Who are responsible for the disappearance of the 4th metro money? You should also explain where the Socialist Member who had to issue an interim election in Zuglo and who left behind a debt of hundreds of millions, or how he could have been placed in the account of several hundred million Gábor Simons. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Even I don't know that!]] If these were not clarified, it only proves that László Botka is as socialist as the former, a real Ferenc Gyurcsány who was put into Miklós Hagyó; he has not learned anything, he does not want to learn, and he would continue where the left had left off once. For our part, we certainly don't want to go back to the age of the nocical boxes. Thank you for listening. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Helicoptering! Ágnes Kun-halmi: Rogán's helicopter... applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[14.40]]
u2017-04-03-50	I'll give the floor back to Congressman in return. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-51	Mr Secretary, I respectfully accept your reply. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP, including Zoltán Gőgös: That's what we mean.]] It is reassuring to me that the government is paying particular attention to such a case, where hundreds of entrepreneurs, thousands of workers and metaphorically the entire Hungarian society are affected. Seviép and similar cases show how Hungary worked before 2010. In translating citizens' views, we must act hard against these abuses, the prosecution and the court must explore the backgrounds of the cases, and justice must be served. The path of missed money must be found, the ones responsible must be named and the money returned to the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Cries from Fidesz: That's right!]]
u2017-04-03-52	Therefore, Congressman has accepted the answer, so that we can proceed. Ágnes Kunhalmi, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Why do they want to plow the CEU? It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-04-03-53	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, The Central European University, which operates in Hungary, is one of the best higher education institutions in the country. Each year, the CEU finishes in the most prestigious place in the various university rankings of the Hungarian universities. It provides usable, modern, deep knowledge for hundreds of students, the most well-known and excellent representatives of their scientific field teach at the university. CEU gives Hungary money, appreciation, educated and smart graduates. A number of Hungarian leaders have emerged from CEU training, even the government and the European Group of Fidesz have a member who graduated from Central European University. The university, and perhaps one of the most important scholarships, also supports very poor Hungarian students out of extreme poverty, who would not have the chance to receive such quality education without the CEU. I would add that the Prime Minister wouldn't have made any progress without the CEU. [[Uproar, clarity, interrogation from the ranks of the governing parties, including Dr. Bence Rétvári: This is a bit strong!]] Therefore, there is no greater interest in maintaining this system in Hungary. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Secretary of State, I ask you why Hungary is being brought into a deeper knowledge crisis and whether the real consequences of this move have been assessed, or just as Mr Lánczi, your home-rector, said: are you really not interested in the country anymore, but only the theft? [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP. - Uproar, interrogation from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-54	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2017-04-03-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, CEU is a university originally registered in New York and Central European University is a private university registered in Hungary. CEU only exists in New York on paper, since it does not issue a diploma, no campus, no instructors, no students. Despite the fact that you may have a total of two secretaries' infrastructure and an office in New York, diplomas will be handed over in Hungary on behalf of this American institution, which does not really work, does not have a student, does not have an instructor, does not issue diplomas. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] It's cheating, it's cheating. [[Zoltán Haughty: But what makes it cheat?]] After all, it gives the impression that the training of a functioning American institution in Hungary gives away qualifications, while this institution does not issue a single degree in America, this institution does not exist in America. [[Noise, constant interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP, including: Stop it!]] At the same time, the Soros University enters into a cooperation agreement with the Central European University, which, in a very difficult and transparent way, rather than CEU, performs educational activity in whole or in part. This tangled state, for which I believe that a cleaner state must be created, should not be awarded a degree in the name of phantom universities, but in the name of a real university. When you said you were concerned that the Central European University could issue diplomas, honourable Member, if you read the bill at least once, you would be aware that the Central European University is not affected by this bill. The status of the Central European University will not change in any way. No additional task in relation to the Central European University has been formulated in this amendment. Only the situation is clarified, which can be said to be a fraud, is that an American diploma is issued on behalf of an institution that does not issue degrees in America. I think, for every student's sake, this situation needs to be handled. You have made a great deal of political horsebackwork in the previous minutes, but you have not said a single sentence about which point of the amendment you do not agree with. Do you not agree that if two different countries are involved in a higher education institution, should the two countries be strengthened in the establishment or operation of this institution? Do you not agree that only the institution that is training in its original country can continue training in another country? Or do you not agree that there should be a higher education qualification, an educational office or accreditation qualification, in the background of the training? What point do you disagree with, honourable Member? [[Noise.]] You do not make any arguments here, you explicitly avoid talking about the legislative amendment proposal, because it is only in the interest of the political atmosphere to present some other intention behind it. But, honourable Member, I can assure you that we are acting primarily in the interests of Hungarian students, both in their interest and in the interests of Hungarian universities, because it is a huge competitive advantage that someone is also attending a Hungarian education, but only one of them receives an American degree. You know, there are young people who think that in order for me to have an American degree, in one case, I have to travel to America, I have to pay for my housing, I have to pay for my education. or I just go to the training of an institution that doesn't work in America in Hungary, and I also get an American degree there, and they prefer this and not the training of Hungarian universities, let's say the MBA. This gives an American MBA degree in Hungary without giving an MBA degree in America. What is it if it is not fraud, honourable Member? [[Noise, constant interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] While Hungarian universities, however, strive with many victims to open their own MBA training, let us say. That's why we think it's because someone got used to it for a decade and a half to get a snap of it. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the Hungarian liberal and MSZP governments could amend any law and put themselves above the law, this condition will indeed cease in Hungary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-56	I ask the congresswoman if she will accept the reply of the Secretary of State.
u2017-04-03-57	Dear Secretary of State, For the last four minutes, one word and one sentence is not true, you're lying like a river. [[A lot of uproar, a lot of interrogation from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] What you have brought against CEU is a purely conceptual process that quotes the darkest Hungarian dictatorships in Hungary. [[A great uproar, interrogations from the ranks of the governing parties.]] But it's even worse than that, because...
u2017-04-03-58	I'd like some peace with the government representatives.
u2017-04-03-59	...the problem is even bigger, because whoever attacks knowledge is attacking his own nation and his people. You are attacking knowledge to turn Hungary into a dark hole, where people can be suppressed even more. It's a dark, vile scoundrel thing you're doing right now.
u2017-04-03-60	If I understand correctly, I will translate what the congresswoman said into Hungarian according to the house rules, and she did not accept the answer. I ask the House whether it accepts it. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 102 votes to 34, with no abstentions. Now Hungarian Zoltán, representative of Jobbik, who submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture, will give up the fight against GMO by circumventing state land and facilitating rules? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2017-04-03-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. We have been aware of some serious internal disturbances in connection with the outing in Bábolna, since two of my previous written questions dealing with it have been answered in completely conflicting ways. However, the reason for the disturbance is easy to understand, since in this case it is not just a normal fidesz mound, it is also obviously, but in the end Monsanto International Multinational Company was the winner of the story. The company is well-known for its large agriculti, and after such a history, I think it is understandable why the news of GMO liberalisation has been published. The whole point of the story is that they took a state land completely unwarranted, unprofessional, three acres of it, and then acquired it by an entrepreneur related to you, completely by accident, without competitors, and then reunited it and gave it to Monsanto for a great profit. Then comes the lies, for which it would be good to have real meaningful answers here now, as I said, to my written question they did not arrive. It was claimed in the reply that there was no greater interest from local farmers in the acquisition of these areas. On the one hand, Mr Secretary, because the local farmers simply didn't know about it, I personally went down there and asked them about it, and this was also stated in several places. By the way, if this was the optimal way to use it on the part of the state, then three different family owners would have had to acquire these lands, not an entrepreneur in the dog business, connected to you. [[14.50]] If the goal really had been to communicate to help family economies, then this one person would not have had to get the territories there. In addition, why didn't they end up giving him state land once so that he couldn't pass on this area for, say, 20 years, as they did later in the privatisation process. Mr Secretary, István Bernáth submitted an offer alone because he was the only one who knew that the state would share this area ten days before Christmas. It can therefore be assumed that the NFA acted out of line, that there was no suspension and that therefore the other parties could not exercise their pre-emptive rights. He also lied when the Ministry replied that three different customers came to the three properties. Either you're lying or you're being lied to, that should be decided. I'm sure you didn't think there was a violation, since it was acquired by three different local farmers. I just told you it wasn't true that they lied in the answer. In practice, they admitted that there was an infringement in the present case. So to separate three acres from 86 hectares three times, and then to deliberately transfer it as an industrial area is no problem for you. And if it's okay with you, then why didn't the state cash in on this deal? I look forward to your substantive response to these. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-03-62	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You asked me a very interesting question, and I was about to try to give you a professional answer. But then, as I listened to what he said, I realized, unfortunately, the problem here again is that he doesn't know the law he's talking about. The problem is that you still do not see clearly that agricultural land under 3 hectares is subject to completely different rules than agricultural land over 3 hectares. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That was 10 acres!]] Sorry, just let me finish what I have to say. The other thing you still don't understand is who you are, who's a politician, what a pre-buyer means, and what an NFA contract means. I have to say, this gentleman didn't sign a contract with the NFA, he signed a NFA contract with others, only what you're missing, which, by the way, happened during the 60-day posting, he signed up for it as a pre-purchaser. The problem is that we're talking about this in vain, because I can see in his eyes that he doesn't understand what I'm talking about because he hasn't read the law once. It is very difficult to discuss this subject if it suffers from material errors, if it claims that the NFA concluded it in a sloppy manner, while with this customer, after a 60-day posting, concluded this contract using his pre-emptive right. But I'm going back to the original idea I wanted to tell you. I agree with you, I'm very annoyed personally by how this area got to Monsanto. So it's a legitimate suggestion. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] So we ordered an investigation. But I would also like to stress that this is the Kft. He didn't buy land, he bought an industrial area. It's cvt. He didn't buy from the state, he bought from a private individual. These are very important differences. I wanted to talk to you about this because it's worth considering, of course. When a demand for NFA comes in, this is what you do. Not in one case have we divided areas in smaller parcels of 3 hectares, there are hundreds of such cases, hundreds of farmers turn to us, and the areas of less than 3 hectares are typically asked to set up livestock farms. So we are also aware that, where appropriate, he will later extract this area. I just wanted to stress that it is not in itself a curiosity in our procedure, that when farmers turn to us, we share areas and sell divided areas in different ways. But that doesn't mean the 60-day suspension deadline applies to everyone. I can't help you more than read the law because you can read it. Therefore, he does not understand the difference in the answers to his written question, because in one case he asks and answers the order of sales below 3 hectares. For the record, it's very important, it's in the National Land Fund Management Act, which you voted for with division, 3 hectares, exception, and everything. So when you ask me that, I'll answer you that. And in the other case, you're asking for areas over three acres, and I'm going to answer you that. And I have often responded to the fact that nearly 30,000 farmers have been able to buy from this land sale programme, and these farmers are also farming these land. Everyone cultivates the land that was purchased, which was purchased specifically for the purpose of declaring it an outland and investing in it, and the NFA is happy to contribute to this, but this could only be normal for these small estates. What you have told me, I would like to return at the end of my answer. I agree, I am not happy that Monsanto has this area, but I would like to stress that we are not talking about state territory and not agricultural land. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Haughty: Yes, he was!]]
u2017-04-03-64	I give the floor again to Congressman to answer. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-65	Thank you for the floor. My problem is exactly that we are no longer talking about state territory, and we are no longer talking about land. But when the NFA ripped these 3 hectares out of 86 hectares to circumvent the legislation you referred to, it was still agricultural land, and it was still a state territory. And how did you end up with Monsanto? Is that what you're asking? Well, ask your local king, who's made a lot of money on these nine acres, and he's made a lot of money on state land. Ask him, ask their own people on the spot, why they let him outlaw the law. This is the real problem, Mr. Secretary. And don't try to lecture me on the law. Of course, I'm aware of how you can outflank land under three acres of land, state land. The problem is, then, how it became an area of less than three hectares, and how it became an area taken out of it to get to Monsanto. He could at least reassure us that it was just a fidesz theft, not that they were trying to help the GMO grow. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-03-66	I would like to inform the House once again that the Member has not accepted the answer. I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 106 votes to 36, with no abstentions. László Földi, a representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:, How can the Hungarian food economy be made more competitive? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Agriculture, as in the past centuries, is, and will continue to be, a decisive economic and social factor in Hungary. In particular, there are potential development opportunities in the Hungarian food economy, the efficiency of the production, processing and distribution system can be increased, the Hungarian and international productivity of the sector can be increased. 57 percent of Hungary's territory is under cultivation, with 5.4 million hectares of agricultural land and 2 million hectares of forest. According to experts, we have a potential for food production that is not adequately exploited and in which qualitative and quantitative progress can be made, as the Ministry summarized last year in the framework of the Food Economic Programme of Hungary 2016-2050. On this basis, according to experts, the Hungarian food economy has a production potential of about 60 percent higher than it is now, which is a significant economic and social opportunity for Hungary in international comparison. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Dear Secretary of State, Last year, the agricultural sector contributed about 0.6 percent of GDP growth and Hungarian agricultural exports amounted to EUR 8 billion. The growing food economy is making a living for more and more people. Since 2010, about 50,000 new jobs have been created thanks to the 51 percent increase in emissions. The basic objectives of the food economy are clear: safe food supply, the maintenance of GMOs, the preservation of our natural values, the preservation of biodiversity and the preservation of the environment, careful and sustainable management of natural resources. Our objectives are also to strengthen the knowledge and information-based economy, increase the land use rate of family farms, improve production based on integrated cooperation and professional knowledge, increase added value in products produced. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State what changes have been made in agriculture and the food economy in recent years. How has productivity and employment developed in the sector in recent years? By what means can the food economy be developed, how can the government make Hungarian agriculture more competitive? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-68	Thank you, Earth Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2017-04-03-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, I am very pleased to hear what you have said, since it is clear that I can agree with every sentence you have. Yes, Hungarian agriculture has done exceptionally well in recent years. We are showing production results that have not been experienced in a long time. [[15.00]] We had to create a food strategy because we are also facing challenges in the coming period that we do not yet know the right answers to. I just want to flash a few question marks, some thoughts. The world's demand for protein increases by 40% by 2025. By 2050, there'll be nine billion of us. At the same time, there is a climate crisis, but at the same time the size of the production areas is falling, and all the opportunities we have for maintaining the production areas are at a disadvantage. Now, from this difficult situation, we need to find a solution to increase protein demand by 40%, how we can meet the increased needs of the population in the coming period. This is what we can only give good answers by providing adequate innovation, by finding appropriate answers. When we look at the stabilisation and growth of livestock production, exports have greatly increased, agricultural production has improved efficiency and profitability, which is what we have been able to achieve since 2010. Employment in agriculture has increased significantly in recent years, with 217 thousand people working in full-time in the sector in 2016. In addition, there is a positive change in plant structures and land use. The number of viable small and medium-sized production farms and the land used by them are constantly increasing. The future development of the Hungarian food economy can be based on the sustainable management of available resources, the strengthening of expertise, the transfer of knowledge and the promotion of innovation, the development of a balanced product structure, the organization of product routes, the increase in the added value of production, the increasing production of premium products, the competitive price and the increased use of distribution opportunities. The development of food processing, which makes use of the most important part of Hungarian agriculture's products, is crucial. It is extremely important to encourage farmers to play their part not only in production, not only in terms of income from production as raw materials, but also in order to encourage them to take part in manufacturing, trade and marketing, because we can achieve adequate profitability for our farmers if we can create in different integrations that they are the owners of processing plants, and they are the owners of the distribution chains. If all of this benefit, the resulting profit, can be turned back by the farming community to its technological development, precision agriculture, digitalisation, all that we can produce more competitively, then we will be able to find the right answers to the challenges of agriculture in the coming decades. That's the key, that's the task we're supposed to accomplish. It is desirable that operators in the food economy strive to produce high-quality food corresponding to market trends within the relevant product categories and to increase the production of premium-quality products. It is not in Hungary's interest to start on the artificial line. Our goal is not to produce cell-growth artificial meat, but not to put tomatoes on the table that have never seen God's light, but only light technology. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Our aim is to be able to break out from the Hungarian market to the international market in premium categories based on traditional agriculture. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-70	Thank you very much, Secretary of State István Nagy. I'll ask Mr. Earth Representative if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-04-03-71	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Hungary has always been proud of its agricultural production, since centuries ago, Europe's markets were supplied with very high-quality Hungarian food, whether in livestock products or in other botanical products. I am very confident that the development ideas that Mr. State Secretary has outlined before us, especially the issue of integration, the issue of production, processing and trade, will become increasingly local in Hungary, as there are examples of this in today's Hungarian agriculture, and I hope that this will improve further, so that we can put real, high-quality food of premium quality on the table of Hungarian children, Hungarian people and on the table of Europe. Thank you for your answer, Mr Secretary, and I accept it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, an independent Member, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior: "Do you agree that the Government must act to eliminate anomalies arising in connection with the operation of national security services? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor.
u2017-04-03-73	Thank you. Mr. Secretary. For years there have been scandals and a series of problems surrounding the operation of the national security area. Many cases have also become known to the public, which shake the faith in the bodies responsible for national security and rightly reduce their social support. This is not only an internal political issue, it also drastically reduces international confidence in Hungary and the Hungarian public authorities. Today, in a changed security environment, disruptions in the operation of services not only hinder the security of the country, but also significantly increase the risks posed by a new challenging environment. Experience has shown that, for example, the Pharaon case, the visa issue in Moscow, the settlement bond scheme are also dangerous symptoms of a systemic problem, but at least such a serious problem is that security risks such as Russian influence efforts in our region remain unanswered. These problems also impacted on international cooperation were also confirmed by the interview of Ferenc Katrein, a member of the National Security Service, which, though unusually, revealed the increasingly visible anomalies in public opinion with unsearchable insight. It is difficult to decide whether professionalism has vanished from the operation of national security services or whether political orders are increasingly undermining the effectiveness of organs, or whether those working in services are at risk for national security, but who knows what interests in carrying out instructions. The outcome is alarming: the credibility and effectiveness of the institutions that serve the nation's security are at a low level. Can you say with a clear conscience that things are going well with national security services? Do they also adequately carry out their duties in matters involving public bodies or certain pro-government actors? The system of democratic control of services is not functioning properly. Political control is not effective. The National Security Committee is used as a cemetery, it does not perform the task it is supposed to do, and often it takes a representative's personal stand to keep certain matters on the agenda at all, for example, the case of a case-by-case committee investigating Russian influence. The system of professional control does not exist in Hungary today. This is your responsibility, and although the area concerns three ministries, I will address my questions to you as the most competent. Do you agree that urgent action is needed to restore the operational efficiency and social credibility of national security services and to remove political influence? Are you ready to support my proposals to restore public confidence? The strict separation of policy and profession in the day-to-day operation of national security services in order to limit external influence, the reform of the system of political control by making committees fair, and the establishment of an appropriate monitoring body for the establishment of a system of professional control. I'm waiting for your answer. [[It's a rare round of applause in the ranks of independent Members and Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-03-74	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State for Home Affairs.
u2017-04-03-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I regularly attend meetings of the National Security Committee on behalf of the Ministry of Interior, and I do not recall, honourable Member, that the critical comments you have just made have been made on the work and operation of national security services at the meetings of the National Security Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and National security services carry out their duties as defined in the Fundamental Law of Hungary, namely, protect Hungary's independence and legal order and enforce Hungary's national security interests. In all cases, the services have fully complied with their statutory obligations since Fidesz governs the country. In 2010, we built the current national security protection system, which has continued to work well and effectively. [[15.10]] I thank all members of the national security services for their service to protect the safety of Hungary, the Hungarian people, and although we live in a world in which 100% safety does not exist, the citizens of Hungary are as safe as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The National Security Committee and the National Security and Police Committee shall monitor the operation of national security services in particular by virtue of their specific responsibilities. A further guarantee of the democratic and constitutional functioning of the services is that the chair of the National Security Committee is always from the ranks of the current parliamentary opposition. In addition, the citizens concerned have the right to complain about the activities of the services. I would like to inform the honourable Member that every two weeks the representatives of the Ministry of Interior and the services regularly report on issues related to national security in Hungary within the framework of the current national security issues item. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I will attend committee meetings myself and the number one heads or alternates of national security services will attend and inform the members of the National Security Committee on all issues. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The questions asked by the members of the committee are always answered by the heads of the services. And allow me to share my experience with the operation of the National Security Committee that, as far as I know, the trust in the services is complete by the members of the National Security Committee - that's what I've seen in connection with the participation in the meetings of the National Security Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Among the topics listed by you, the National Security Committee has discussed all of them in detail and will keep you informed of the new developments in the current situation every two weeks. And the slanders that you have spoken of, which have been unfounded in the services, I reject, honourable Member. In the fact that we can guarantee the greatest possible security for all residents in Hungary today, the National Security Service staff are also performing a serious task in cooperation with the Counter-Terrorism Centre and the police. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I ask you not to attack national security services, because the effective functioning of national security services, its effective work, is in the interests of Hungary, of all Hungarian citizens, and here in Parliament, I believe that we should give all the support we need to ensure that this important service can continue to be provided effectively in the future, in the interests of all of us. And I ask the honourable Member that if you are serious about this service in the interests of all of us, then support and accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-76	Thank you, Secretary of State Kontra. I will ask Congresswoman Márta Demeter if she will accept the State Secretary's answer.
u2017-04-03-77	I can't accept it, Mr. President. Mr State Secretary, I have outlined systemic problems, I have proposed a solution, and you have not responded to any of this. I didn't accuse anyone, I pointed out one thing: that you were responsible for the situation that had arisen. And by the way, you can sweep things under the rug here, but there's gonna be a pile under the rug so big that they're gonna fail in it, and the country's gonna fail in it. You know, that's the problem. The problem is that the implementation of the security protocol is not the routine today, but the implementation of political instructions. It is therefore necessary to separate policy and profession, in order to enable services and professionals to carry out their duties properly and not to deal with the implementation of political instructions. While you have been trying to put national security risks in everything in recent years, in cases of real risk, such as the Pharaon case, the settlement bonds, the Moscow visa issue [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's interesting they don't find any risks. Mr. Secretary. These acts, this attitude does not lapse. [[The president's ringing again.]] In a year's time, at the latest, they will be held accountable for both political...
u2017-04-03-78	Thank you very much.
u2017-04-03-79	...all professional actors; until then, consider my proposals. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-03-80	Thank you very much. If I'm reading this correctly, the congresswoman didn't accept the answer. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the State Secretary's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek and Ikotity István, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Will there be a national agricultural university in Budapest, where the rural agricultural branches will be merged? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek [[For signal:]] Instead, István Ikotity will ask the question of interpellation. You have the floor. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where's the faction? What happened to the faction?]]
u2017-04-03-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, László Palkovics spoke earlier about the completion of the reforms in higher education, but now the government has begun to reform another important area. The government's proposal "Development of the Hungarian Agricultural Training Area" was leaked into the press, according to which the government would create the new national agricultural university, where it would merge most of the existing agricultural education. There was news of this earlier, then it was only government plans, and the strategic material prepared in EMMI, which would have attached the Georgikon Faculty of the Pannonia University of Veszprém to the University of St. Stephen of Gödöllő. According to new news, it would not be Gödöllő, but Budapest, the centre of the new agricultural university. In addition to ignoring the opinion of those working in agricultural education, the government's non-professional arguments are also demonstrated by the fact that last October, for example, Minister János Lázár declared at the general meeting in Hódmezővásárhely that higher education will remain intact and independent. Seriously, it depends on John Lazarus, what about agricultural education in Hungary? The LMP has already submitted a question about the creation of a new agricultural university, and Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári has answered this question, it was at the beginning of this year, and it has not helped clarity. We have received a confusing answer, referring to the development possibilities of the area, the importance of cooperation and a stable relationship system, rather than answering the question whether there will be a national agricultural university or not. He referred to certain changes, but promised that it would not affect institutional autonomy or the content of existing training to any extent. If the Secretary of State was telling the truth, then there will be no national agricultural university, nor can it be imagined that agricultural training in rural areas would have a fundamental impact on autonomy and training. It is not a small issue beyond the dismemberment of universities. The future of the Hungarian countryside depends on the population-sustaining power of the settlements, which requires jobs, which can be guaranteed by a multi-legged agriculture. This is supported by agricultural education, which will be of high quality not from mergers and centralisations, but from diversity, competition between the institutions, it is not acceptable to weaken rural higher education and to create another capital centre. Dear Secretary of State, Once again, it is an opportunity to respond publicly to conflicting news and clarify its intention: what will become of Keszthely, Kaposvár, Kecskemét, Hódmezővásárhely, Nyíregyháza, Gyöngyös, Gödöllő, Szegedi [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] With agricultural trainings in Debrecen? Do they really take the arms and give them to Budapest? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-04-03-82	Thank you, Congressman Ikotity. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-04-03-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I could also say that I have answered this question several times in writing and orally, so the government will continue to hold on to that. This could also be the short version, but let me give you more details, or at least answer your question. It continues to stand as it was before that the government has not made any decision on this, so I ask that you do not make the appearance that some government decision has already been made. At the same time, it is an important question, and obviously also in the LMP, when more people are gathered than there are now from the faction, they can ask each other whether the Hungarian agricultural sector can be fully served by the higher agricultural education system which is now. And I'm not just asking a structural question here, I'm asking a substantive question. Is this the best moment for agricultural GDP growth, agricultural innovation or the weight of agriculture, productivity and modernity to be as high as possible in the future? Is this a sufficient scientific background, an inspiring background for Hungarian agriculture to once again become a leading sector in Hungary, as is the traditionally leading sector in Hungary? [[15.20]] If, according to the LMP, everything is in order and it does not need to be touched, then there is obviously no need to ask such questions, but we have asked these questions, and the change of grades in higher education is part of its strategy to put agricultural education back in the world and to try to offer more quality education to everyone in this area by launching new, undivided agricultural engineering training. So it is not only worth considering from time to time whether agricultural higher education takes place in the right structure as well as in all other areas of higher education, but whether it is also filled with the right content, because there are dozens of institutions in which we are conducting a total of 181 types of agricultural education in Hungary today, and the scope of the developments that we intend to do so is still 106 billion HUF in the framework of the development programme. It is worth thinking about, and it is worth considering, that when it comes to a university that has a Faculty of Medicine, a Faculty of Natural Sciences, a Faculty of Humanities and a Faculty of Agricultural Studies, any university transformation or development can be the main winner of an internal agricultural faculty. The most important thing is the beginning of natural conditions. Indeed, Hungary needs a very, very high level of agricultural education, and in the last nearly twenty years, the number of people entering agricultural education has fallen by about half. The most popular is the technical profession, 21 percent of the candidates for admission, followed by the economic studies by 15 percent, then the health courses by 13 percent, and compared to this, the number of applications for applications for agriculture is 2.7 percent, so it is much lower. And we can also see that the training that attracts foreign students in an international appeal is not particularly Hungarian agriculture, but it could be, because the country has the ability to do so, and also the involvement of foreign teachers, I think there would be plenty of need. The integration of the agricultural faculties of Szent István University and the Corvinus University of Budapest, and the Sopron University, with a focus on forestry and wood industries, have been established in the past. The agricultural training in Mosonmagyaróvár was merged into the Széchenyi István University, and the Károly Róbert College was integrated into the Eszterházy Károly College, and an independent veterinary science university was established. [[Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat.]] In order to develop research potential, coordinate and partially centralize research, agricultural research institutes have been established, and a research institute network has been established through cooperation between the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and the National Agricultural Research and Innovation Centre. However, this has certainly affected developments in recent years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Ikotity if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-04-03-85	Mr President, Mr. Secretary, you didn't answer the question again. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The government did not decide, that was the answer.]] My question was, what will happen to these rural faculties, rural agricultural training centres? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You've had your answer four times.]] And we didn't get the answer that these rural centers would remain independent. Mr Secretary of State spoke of such things as the competitiveness of agriculture, and unfortunately and shamed those instructors and all those who work in this area when he said that their work was not excellent and of poor quality. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who said that? That's what you're saying.]] Mr. Secretary. I suggest that you look at the development of agriculture, not only is it the only existing aspect to increase agricultural GDP. Here are also aspects that I have just mentioned, such as the ability to maintain the countryside, the retention of rural higher education institutions, because they represent value. If these are centralized, agricultural education in Budapest, I think they will issue a very ugly certificate about themselves. I don't accept the answer.
u2017-04-03-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. The congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the Parliament if it'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 30 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Szilárd Németh, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. How can the possible break-up of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey on the Hungarian border protection be affected? It's an address. Szilárd Németh has the floor.
u2017-04-03-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, our country and the European Union have become a daily theme of preventing illegal immigration and the mandatory distribution of irregular migrants between Member States already in the Schengen area. There is almost no EU summit where the issue of migration does not exist among the leading issues. It is not necessary to talk long about why this has become such an outstanding issue today. Nice, Paris, Cologne, Brussels, Berlin or London. Unfortunately, these cities are no longer reminded of what a wonderful walk can be done in Paris on the banks of the Seine, at the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin or at the Westminster Palace in London, but rather of the fact that the citizens of these cities must live in fear of another and unexpected terrorist attack. It is important to ask why we owe this, how we got this far. EU leaders began to think only after the many terrorist attacks that required people's lives, about how to halt the ever-coming migration flows. One step could have been the agreement between the EU and Turkey. According to the agreement, migrants caught in Turkish territorial waters will be returned to Turkey, measures against smugglers will be extended, and migrants who are not in need of protection from Turkey will be automatically re-accepted by the Turks. In exchange for this agreement, Turkey has, of course, laid down a number of conditions for the European Union, including the facilitation of visa rules and the payment of €3 billion in support of migration management. Dear Secretary of State, Turkey has been looking forward to full termination of the agreement a few weeks ago, and the European Union does not have a plan B in this case. Unfortunately, the EU's migration policy has failed once again, and the agreement has failed. In my view, it was an extremely irresponsible and unreasonable policy to base Europe's security on such a fragile agreement. If Turkey does fulfil its threat, hundreds of thousands of migrants will be able to storm our southern border area again. Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian people trust the government's migration policy because it is based on border protection. I ask the honourable Secretary of State whether, if Turkey terminates the agreement, we will be able to handle the sudden surge of hundreds of thousands of people. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-88	Thank you very much, Mr Szilárd Németh. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-03-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I will answer your question at the very beginning: yes, in this case we can defend our borders, we are prepared, because the triple protection - the living protection, the legal and technical protection, the fence - will work in this case as well. Honourable Congressman, On the international stage, Hungary alone took the view that we should not put our own security, the security of Europe, in Turkey's hands alone, if you will. Thanks to the government's foresight, we are prepared, and the experience of the strengthened legal border closure shows that we have the legal and physical means to protect Hungary, the security of the Hungarian people, even if the agreement between the European Union and Turkey is dissolved. It has now become clear to everyone that agreements between the European Union and Turkey are increasingly difficult to implement because of the domestic political situation in Turkey, and Turkish official sources have repeatedly announced that they will override the agreement on asylum concluded with the European Union last year, in particular the point on land border crossings. Even then, the Hungarian government has already said that we should agree with the Turks, but in the meantime we should build fences, take care of the physical protection of our own borders, which is why we are building the second fence right now, because it is essential for our complete security. This will be done by the end of May, and this will be one that will be able to contain the largest possible crowds coming from Turkey. Honourable Congressman, I can reassure you and this House, the Hungarian public, that we will be able to protect the country. The first experience with the strengthened legal border closure is very positive. These new rules entered into force on 28 March. We can also say that, following the confirmation of the legal border closure, no one was able to enter the territory of Hungary violently, this was prevented by the Hungarian authorities, and the migrants captured in depth were escorted back under the legal procedure. [[15.30]] In the positive experience, the staff of the Immigration and Asylum Office were trained before the entry into force of the legislation, prepared for the entry into force on 28 March and can be used effectively. These are the experiences, honourable Member. In addition to the maintenance of the triple protection and the continuous recruitment of border hunters, we also monitor our border waters, as it also has a guiding effect of strengthening the legal border seal, the Hungarian-Serbian border is virtually eliminated as a primary target, and migrants are trying to find new routes, so we also protect our border waters more effectively and more effectively. Honourable Congressman, I would also like to draw attention and take this opportunity to ask people's views on the migration issue in the context of the national consultation. I ask everyone who cares about the protection of the country to answer these very important questions, because this also strengthens us and strengthens our common goals that serve Hungary's security. This national consultation or response to this question is necessary in order to prevent Brussels from taking away national powers, our powers to protect ourselves, to protect the Hungarian people as we have done in the past year and a half. Honourable Congressman, Hungary can count on the Hungarian border defenders, the Hungarian police, the Hungarian soldiers, and we will protect the country. Thank you very much, and I ask you to accept my answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-90	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Kontra. I ask Mr Szilárd Németh if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2017-04-03-91	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I agree with you: the doctrine of illegal migration works because we have listened to people and people have expressed their views on this. Both in the national consultation and last year's referendum, there was a clear message to all politicians that we need to protect the country from illegal migrants and the dangers involved. As a result, we strengthened the technical border lock, i.e. we built a fence, so we increased the number of border hunters, and last time we decided here in Parliament to strengthen the legal border lock. Thanks to these measures, no illegal migrant can enter the territory of Hungary and thus the territory of the EU without controls. The country can live its daily life safely, so thank you, I respectfully accept your answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-92	Thank you very much, Mr Szilárd Németh. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister:. There is money for Propaganda, but there is no money for families? ! Propaganda has never made anyone's life better. It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2017-04-03-93	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, While you spend billions on further unnecessary insults, hundreds of thousands of families are miserable. More and more children are born abroad because their parents leave Hungary in the hope of a better life. Since the Orbán government's reign, almost as many children have been born abroad as children in one year at home. Many families are already in another country with one foot, because one parent works or commutes abroad. Thus, after tens of thousands of children, the family allowance is not paid by the Hungarian State, but also by the Austrian or German State. Hundreds of thousands of families who remain here are in severe deprivation. Many of them are single parents. Meanwhile, the government issued a tender for a campaign that only one company could apply for it. Family Friendly Country Nonprofit Közhasznú Kft. won 6 billion HUF. Its task will be to promote the generalisation of family-friendly values, thus the family- and child-friendly approach in Hungary. For 6 billion forints, Mr. Secretary. While they ignore children who have already been born, who are crippled today because their parents do not have jobs, they do not even receive tax relief or can only enforce a small part of it. The family benefits due to the rights of the subject have not been increased by a single forint since the government was registered. Their real value has decreased by 30 percent over the last seven years. They do not care that half a million children live in a family where a parent raises a child alone. Instead of directly supporting these families, the government gave half a billion forints to the former government spokesperson Anna Nagy for a capital centre; as if this were more necessary. Moreover, the Foundation concerned presented even worse data than KSH recently, they were forced to acknowledge that, despite the Government's wonderful family policy, 60 percent of respondents are suffering from financial problems, poverty or extreme poverty against 48 percent of the HCSO. So the reality is much worse than the way you communicate it. They also talk of trying to lure young people who have emigrated home in vain. Come home! As part of the programme, only 105 young people out of 57 million forints have been lured home, and since then the programme has been announced to be closed. We now understand why Katalin Novák recently said that, at some point, financial support is no longer enough to increase the desire to have children, so it may be even more important to strengthen a family-friendly approach. Mr. Secretary. Why spend billions on spreading family-friendly values instead of using this 6 billion forint to support the living lives of families? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-03-94	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör.
u2017-04-03-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You know very well that if we visualize a list of government goals, then the support of families and families with children is among the first. We want Hungary to be a family-friendly country, and everyone would feel it in their own environment. These are not just words, these goals are also reflected in government measures. Let's start with, say, family taxation, which - and you forgot - left 1300 billion forints in the family pocket. And if there's more left in the family pockets than the families, it helps the children. For the future of children, the fact that their parents have jobs is not irrelevant. I would just like to remind you that when the left-wing government retired in 2010, 700,000 fewer people worked in Hungary and half a million people checked in for some kind of aid. How can you rely on children when they didn't think it was important for them or their parents to have a job later? The MSZP built the aid-based society at the time. You have been constantly attacking the public work programme here for years, but you ignore the importance of seeing your parents go to work. And I'm talking about kids whose parents used to be at home all day, and they lived on welfare, 20 or a few thousand forints. As far as Hungarians working abroad are concerned, I will not be a partner in this, to make these families look like economic refugees, nor do I believe that Mr Gúr's child, sitting behind you, was an economic refugee when he worked in Belgium. We should thank them for their support abroad, but in any case, the government has something to do here. Everything must be done to make it easy for young people working abroad to decide to move home if they want to. This requires a good family support system, falling taxes, increasing wages and a wide-ranging home creation programme. Progress has been made in all areas. I would also like to inform you that instead of the previous 92,000, some 320,000 children are now given free meals three times a day. This is 90 percent of small children and 700,000 children get free textbooks. Even though they are shouting at the press in this case, the socialists have not even thought about taking these steps. For our part, we want no children in Hungary who do not go to school because their parents cannot pay for their meals or the textbook. And by the way, wasn't it your government that abolished the three-year-old child, the home-building program that doubled the tax on housing, or was it the hundreds of thousands of families in foreign currency loans? It wasn't you? Now the same party is thinking about raising more taxes, abolishing family tax incentives and abolishing a well-functioning home-building program. There is one more thing, Madam honourable Member: in my dream, I did not think that you would talk about propaganda here again in this House. No, I do not mean that the MSZP spent HUF 84 billion on communication, but that you were the poster of the anti-Hungarian campaign beyond the 2004 border. [[An uproar from the ranks of the ruling parties. Interjection in the same place: Shame on you!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Do you know what propaganda is? When a party claims that the dual citizenship granted to every Hungarian from abroad would cost the Hungarian taxpayers 168 thousand forints. [[15.40]] That's what you said, and that's what you wrote, and we know that it's been a great lie. According to the press, you were so proud of your performance that you asked the MSZP leaders to slaughter pigs as a reward. We don't know how many pigs have been killed, but if you really want to deal with propaganda, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] then, on behalf of the left, here and now, he apologizes for the poster campaign in 2004 and for his role in it. Thank you for listening. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, among them: Yes! Apologize. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély whether she will accept the State Secretary's reply. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP and the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-03-97	Thank you, Mr. President. I do not accept Mr. Secretary's reply. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Apologize!]] You know, Mr. Secretary, this is the government that leads young people who come home from abroad to their paperwork that they are migrants. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Shame! Noise in the ranks of the MSZP. Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz: Apologize!]] On the paper of young Hungarians, he shows that he is a migrant. You're the ones who do this. The other is that this is the government where workers' poverty grew more than double. You told me that, among the government goals, support for families; the Orbán family, the Tiborcz family, the Mészáros family, the Garancsi, the Rogán family; and I hope that you benefited, Mr. Secretary of State, your family, because you would not say such things in the Hungarian Parliament, which you listed here. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Shame on you! Apologize. Intercoms, noise in the ranks of the MSZP and the governing parties.]] That's the amount of money a government didn't spend on communication, propaganda, like you did. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I don't accept it, Mr. President. [[Moore, a round of applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-04-03-98	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution, by 106 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstentions, the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. Zoltán Gőgös: This shows that a communicator answered, not a specialist. Why didn't the Rétvári answer? Dr. Bence Rétvári: Apologize to Mrs. Bango!]] And I would like to tell Mr Nándor Gúr, Mr notary, that I will be able to give an opportunity to speak on a point of order at the end of the interpellations. Dear Parliament, Vice-President Tamás Sneider, Member, representative of Jobbik [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] he has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:, Can the 60-year-olds still own the local Grassalkovich castle? It's an address. At the request of Prime Minister Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent on the subject, State Secretary János Fónagy will respond to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President, Congressman.
u2017-04-03-99	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 14 March, Fidesz, Christian Democrat and socialist politicians jointly submitted the bill, the adoption of which would give the ownership of the 60th Grassalkovich Castle to the National Hungarian Hunting Chamber of Hungary free of charge. The donation of the HUF 3.1 billion building, renovated in 2013 from EU funds, now worth 5 billion in scale, is unusual even in today's corrupt world. I predict that I am not dealing with the news about hunting politicians at the political tabloid level, which I believe is the right of every Fidesz and MSZP heart regardless of party standing. The otherwise expensive hobby is an integral part of wildlife management, and I think it is not something of a devil. What is more, however, asking questions is that the father of one of the legislators, Gergely Bárándy, is the chairman of the Chamber of Hunting's Ethics Committee. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What a coincidence!]] It is deeply insulting to the citizens of sixty that no one has asked them about this. It is understandable to be outraged because they supported the renovation of the castle by buying brick tickets. At the time when they had to sacrifice their money for this noble purpose, they needed the sixty when they took the castle away from them, but they were not even asked. Dear Secretary of State, The Grassalkovich Castle is also a symbol of the city of Hatvan. It doesn't matter who exercises ownership, what purpose the building is used for and under what conditions. On behalf of myself and our political community, I can say that Jobbik has always been open to dialogue and discussions, but in this case, you have chosen the easy way, i.e. without asking the Sixties, to form a great coalition, to try to pass this initiative. The circumvention of Hungary's assets was essentially developed under socialist governance, but you are apparently continuing where they have finished. In 2010, the will of voters clearly showed that they did not ask for the policy of playing national wealth, EU funds, into their private hands. The state, if it really wants to help, will support the sixty in their efforts to preserve their common treasure for their offspring, and it will not happen by chance that an oligarch or a local landlord can lay his hands on it. Dear Secretary of State, Will the bill be withdrawn, will the 60th still be owned by Grassalkovich Castle? Please answer that. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-03-100	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-04-03-101	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Grassalkovich castle complex is owned by the Hungarian State and is managed by the Hungarian Hunting Museum of Carpathian Basin Széchenyi Zsigmond, owned by the municipality of Hatvan. The Hungarian Hunting Museum in the Carpathian Basin of Széchenyi Zsigmond, as a member institution of the Hungarian Natural History Museum, operates in the castle. The government decision establishing the National Hungarian Hunting Museum made it possible to rebuild the main building and park of Grassalkovich Castle, which is home to the institution. The development under the project was also completed on 14 March 2014. CXCVI of 2011 on the free ownership of state-owned property. The transfer of real estate under the bill amending the Act is intended to facilitate the provision of public tasks for the Hungarian National Chamber of Hunting. The castle ensures the maintenance, operation, operation and operation of the Széchenyi Zsigmond Hunting Museum. It is planned that the 60th Hunting Museum will be one of the three locations of the World Hunting Exhibition in Hungary in 2021. As we know, one of the most successful and largest hunting exhibitions of all time was the first World Hunting Exhibition in Budapest in 1971. The Hungarian Hunting Chamber serves the preservation and development of the hunting culture, the protection of the Hungarian hunting culture and the promotion of its traditions, so its tasks fit in with the activities of the hunting museum. The Chamber of Hunters has the expertise and experience that enables the public to present the Hungarian hunting culture, the general knowledge of hunting, by the care of a museum collection and the organisation of exhibitions. The Széchenyi Zsigmond Hunting Museum is the only facility of the country, the Carpathian Basin and Central Europe that presents it with the most modern interactive tools. Knowledge related to sustainable hunting in the first century. On this basis, it is justified and professionally eligible that the Hungarian Hunting Museum in the Carpathian Basin of Széchenyi Zsigmond be maintained by the National Hungarian Hunting Chamber. The aim of the bill is to create the most important conditions for the performance of the public service tasks already described by the free transfer of the ownership of the Grassalkovich castle to the hunting chamber. By saying this, I think it is also clear that the authors do not intend to withdraw the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.50]]
u2017-04-03-102	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Vice President Sneider if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-04-03-103	Dear Secretary of State, I am very sorry that you have to take this fall, and you have to tell me this, because it is clear that the National Chamber of Hunters could use this castle without receiving ownership. Under the current treaties, you will have to operate the Hunting Museum in the castle area by 2020 and from then on you can give it to anyone who owns the property. I would very much ask you, ladies and gentlemen, who have joined forces with the MSZP, my fellow Members, that such an obvious reenactment of a 5 billion forint, the symbol of the Sixty City, which stands in the main square and is actually built around the town of Hatvan, should not be allowed. We've managed to get it into a naughty series of things after the Socialist Party has gone behind it, but we know it's a little third law now, and that's all we need and are waiting for. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári:]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári:]] In order for three representatives to go to the toilet, when they have to press a button (Dr. Bence Rétvári: Bince Kisthirdos!) And you can transfer this $5 billion fortune. That's what this story is about. That's why it's outrageous, and obviously I can't accept it. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This is the answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-03-104	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 29 against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mr. Benedek Sallai, representative of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. The Fidesz is in the pocket of the American Monsanto? It's an address. Congressman Sallai Benedek has the floor.
u2017-04-03-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, He received the question in writing, and I do not wish to deviate from it. I do not know how to ask this question, so that I will not get the same idiotic, demagogic answer as you gave to Zoltán Magyar, because you are a sensible young man and you see that this is a fraud. It's a simple earth speculation. The NFA Act you're talking about is that you can't sell people over three acres. Based on this principle, you can divide the entire country's state land into three acres just to play it out for your buddies, but now you're not playing it for your buddies, but for the Monsanto, your big brother, to serve the GMO lobby. The question is very, very simple. If you are aware, as a person who knows the right, that it is a crime to carry out these pocket contracts, because agricultural land has been transferred so that a legal person can buy it, and the Land Traffic Act would not allow a legal person not only to buy state land but also land, then why does the Hungarian State assist in this crime? You stand up against Monsanto in words, because you say with your Fundamental Law that you are protecting Hungary's largest agriculture and agriculture with reproductive material free of genetic manipulation in environmental health, but you are in favour of Monsanto. You say you'll take action against pocket contracts and then sell the land to the Monsanto with a pocket contract. You say that farmers get the land and then use billions of speculations to put some people in the position. I'd like to know with respect how you feel about that. You can sit here with complete peace, since your predecessor, Philip Benedict, has also escaped with a suspension of the same exorcisms. Perhaps a next government will be as fair to you as you were with Philip Benedict, but yet this is nothing more than a simple robbery, which you should know. I respectfully ask what you think. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-04-03-106	Thank you very much, Congressman Sallai. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Mr Bitay.
u2017-04-03-107	Thank you very much for the floor. In the spirit of the campaign, I would like to express my hope that the voters will be fair to the LMP in the 2018 elections, and will receive exactly as many votes as they deserve from the Hungarian parliamentary presence. I don't know why we're arguing, I told you before. You're right, I agree with you, it's not right, it's not good that an industrial area like this is in Monsanto's hands. The Hungarian government is anti-GMO, it is in the Fundamental Law. I don't understand what the debate is between us. I can tell you the same thing I told you before. It's not agricultural land, so it's not subject to the Land Traffic Act, so I can't control it or reach out to it, if I could, I'd do what, say, with a particular industrial area, to whom it sells it. I would like to stress to you that it is very important that the state did not sell and did not sell land, and it is now very difficult for the National Land Fund Manager to find any responsibility in this matter. I can tell you once again that in all the cases where farmers come to us, that they would like to share the area, to be more precise, to request that the public area be divided by some rules or for some intelligent farming reason, we usually support them, and I am not willing to apologize to anyone for turning to us, asking that they wish to establish a livestock establishment, a pig farm in that area, and then, years later, four or five years later, as an industrial area, to sell them to a kft., I cannot apologize to you, because in this NFA, the National Land Fund Manager, or the State or the Land Traffic Law, have no right or possibility. I would also like to tell you that it was not a farmer who applied for the sharing of this land here, a larger body of land became the exception of three smaller parcels, but four farmers asked for it, and not those who requested it finally received the ownership, but a pre-buyer bought it in the 60-day pre-emption procedure. So you can see these for me or for my predecessors in the National Land Fund Manager, that for such a division, a pre-shopper who, four years later, sells the industrial area to a cft., I'm sorry, but it's beyond my legal options to get involved in any way. I would like to say it again and stress that we may find something in common on this subject, that I agree with you that it is very bad that you have come to Monsanto. I am not at all pleased that there is an area that has been taken out and is ultimately not for its original purpose, and that is why - this may sound funny too - I agree with you that the prosecution has filed a complaint, which will obviously investigate whether any fraudulent legal transaction has taken place in this context. On behalf of the National Earth Fund, on behalf of the Earth Traffic Act, land for farmers! On the part of the programme there has been no lawlessness in this regard. With regard to anti-GMO, I would also like to mention to you, as you have rightly said, in the Fundamental Law, in the Fundamental Law presented by our political party family. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, among the EU's agricultural ministers, Minister Fazekas is at the forefront in the fight against GMOs, and he has dealt with this issue the most. We are doing everything we can to change regulations, even with regard to animal nutrition, so that it is not possible to feed GMOs in Hungary. We are doing everything we can to ensure that these modified genetic foods are not placed on the table and that they do not produce such products in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-03-108	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Sallai if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-04-03-109	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I think we should leave Sándor Fazekas alone right now, not mention his fight against GMO, another issue of how he's been doing his rounds in America for experiments like this. Let's talk about what we're supposed to agree on. Obviously, I can't believe what you're saying that they didn't know about it, but let's just say I believe it. What I can do, I've done this report. I'll tell you what you can do: on behalf of the Hungarian State, the Council of Property Policy can initiate the restoration of the original state, because the National Earth Fund Act sets it out. [[Rumors from the Fidesz ranks.]] For what purpose and how that land can be sold. Obviously, this is bad faith, because if you have bought this land from you not for the purpose of building a small and medium-sized family farm, but for speculative purposes in order to withdraw it from the field rating, you have acted in bad faith and you can initiate the restoration of the original state as a seller. And that's what you can do if what you're saying is true and you want to do it. Thank you very much. I don't accept the answer.
u2017-04-03-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether they will accept the State Secretary's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 37 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Sándor Czomba, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade: What is the result of the good performance of the external trade balance? It's an address. Mr Sándor Czomba has the floor. [[16.00]]
u2017-04-03-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We all see it, and now all the leading credit rating agencies admit that the government has managed to put the country's finances in order. The government has always stressed that the country's budget must first be based on a stable basis and then expected economic growth. In recent years, more and more favourable economic data are emerging that show economic growth. Among these, I would like to highlight exports, which need not be explained in particular why it is important, as it represents currency revenue and improves the balance of payments. It is clear that since 2010, we have been making progress in this area as well, since official statistics report on the surplus of the external trade balance. For example, according to the latest data of the HCSO, foreign trade trade traffic closed in 2016 with a surplus of EUR 9.9 billion, which is EUR 1.3 billion higher than the EUR 8.6 billion in 2015. The surplus of nearly EUR 10 billion came out that last year exports amounted to EUR 93 billion, while imports amounted to EUR 83.1 billion. I believe that the government's ambitions, such as the Eastern and Southern opening policy, also contribute to these positive external trade processes. Dear Secretary of State, Following the earlier bad economic policy of the socialists, I believe that the country is on the right track, as our fiscal situation is stable and our economic indicators are increasingly encouraging in the real economy, but Hungary remains heavily dependent on export revenue as an economically open country. I am therefore asking the Secretary of State what is the result of the good performance of the external trade balance and what is expected in this area in the near future. Thank you. I'm waiting for your answer. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-03-112	Thank you, Congressman Czomba. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Szabó.
u2017-04-03-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, It is quite clear that the Hungarian government has taken very significant macro-economic measures since the change of government in 2010 and we have created a new model that has broken down quite a lot of old dogmas that ruled in macroeconomics: that it cannot grow at the same time, that debt can be repaid, and that jobs can be created. It is quite clear that today we have been able to reverse this dogma, and it is now apparent that this Hungarian model can be interesting for others. It is interesting to see that the previous government before 2010 was trying to get Hungary to help foreign financial institutions financially. We did exactly the opposite: we paid back the debt to the IMF. Let us look at Greece, who now has much more debt to the IMF than we did in Hungary at the time. The Hungarian model practically proved that we could produce economic growth, create new jobs, conduct a disciplined budget and reduce public debt at the same time. The new external economic direction, which is now the priority of foreign policy, has also proven its validity, the former 81 people's external economic attaché network has been extended to 145 people. There is now virtually foreign trade specialist everywhere except the Vatican and the multilateral mission. We have also achieved significant successes in the countries of Eastern and Southern opening, only 29 of the countries of Eastern opening in 2016. Of the southern opening countries, we have reached a peak with exports in 44 countries. Magyar Nemzeti Kereskedőház Zrt. within the framework of a global network, now with nearly 60 stations, they have 4000 contractual partners here in Hungary, micro, small and medium-sized companies with competitive products, services and technologies. Only last year, the Hungarian National Trading House created 1500 new foreign opportunities for Hungarian companies. We clearly made the right decision in mid-2014 by creating foreign economic-oriented foreign policy and external economic focus. After 2015, in 2016, we again produced the highest exports of all time and the highest foreign trade surplus of all time. According to the latest figures, the value of exports again increased by 14 percent in January compared to the figures one year earlier. Therefore, it appears that these trends will continue in 2016. Of course, we must face changes affecting the world economy. The Brexit will create new challenges, and the new American foreign economic direction will also bring about changes. The pressure from Asian countries is definitely coming. It is therefore very important that we pay attention, look at the opportunities and create as much added value as possible in Hungary, as many jobs as possible. I feel that we can continue this process in 2017. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-03-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Czomba if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-04-03-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've had answers to my questions, so I'll take the answer. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the governing parties. Cries from the benches of the MSZP: Bravo!]]
u2017-04-03-116	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'm closing the interpellation agenda. Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary, has come forward in order of business. You have the floor in a minute.
u2017-04-03-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Csaba Dömötör has already fled because he is ready to announce, but can't take responsibility for his words. Speaking of my son, I have two or three sentences to say. One of them is that after 2010 this government qualified my child to be excellent...
u2017-04-03-118	Dear Congressman, make your point of order. I'm going to ask you again what order of business you're proposing. I took the floor.
u2017-04-03-119	Excellent, then fired. After six years of labor negotiation, we got there... [[The Member shall continue his speech without any tone, which shall not be recorded in the noise.]]
u2017-04-03-120	Honourable notary, Congressman, I take the floor. He came forward on a case-by-case basis, so we're waiting for his statement of order, but he's talking about something else, Mr. Notary. Thank you very much. [[Sándor Font: We also need a signal interpreter. To Anita Font Sándor Beringes: You just be quiet. Gábor István Bellozó: It wasn't as funny as you were talking about!]] Dear Parliament, We'll move on to immediate questions. László Szakács, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wants to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question:. What did President 2 think? It's an address. Mr László Csakács has the floor.
u2017-04-03-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I have to repeat the question I asked you a few weeks ago because, let alone not giving you an answer, you've given me so many answers that they can't all be true at once. Thank you for your advice. I read the letters you wrote to me. There's nothing in the world they can tell, by the way. Each ministry wrote back that the National Security Committee had discussed this matter on 1 March. But they didn't tell us what conclusion they had reached. One exception, however, was the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, which said that you were an independent body of government. That was the difference, just to sum up what happened. To tell you your answers, I was prepared to look at the latest report. You know, it is about President Matolcsy saying that in Hungary the Hungarian government was also tried to overthrow through the failure of the central bank, and that there was also a military and secret service scenario, which was also prepared at the Hungarian embassy of a NATO Federation state. When we asked you what you were thinking, you quoted a Hungarian Orange article first. Then he said that my fellow Member knew only that this was the United States of America, and then one day you knew that Lajos Kósa knew, and he quoted him, and you trusted his words. Feel free to read back the report. It's in there. John Lazarus answered these questions, and at last he told me that everyone knew that, but I did not. This is all the answers he could give in about half an hour in a case that, I believe, is an important issue in Hungary. Because if the President of the Central Bank is speaking, and that is why you have a great responsibility, then you must do so in a very disciplined manner, because the economy is moving there, the exchange rate is moving. I think we need to speak more carefully. Which one is it, Mr. President? What did you have in mind of the four? Thank you for your attention.
u2017-04-03-122	Thank you very much, Congressman Cook. I give the floor to President György Matolcsy in two minutes.
u2017-04-03-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You repeated a question to which many people responded in a consistent manner, and the answer was yes. Yes, a foreign ally in Hungary performed political influence through the embassy in Budapest and its former agent. This has been seen by many, many people, and many have voiced it. You repeated this question, and this is the answer: yes. The answer is yes, it's done. But, Congressman, you know, now we don't want questions from you, we want answers. After all, I told you what you wrongly quoted, because they did not try to overthrow the government through the failure of the Hungarian National Bank, but through the Hungarian National Bank. This is even more serious. [[16.10]] So you quoted my words wrong, but that's not the real problem. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Run for it again!]] The real problem, Mr President, is that you continue to ask the same question that many of us have answered in a consistent manner, but you do not answer our questions. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. László Varga: But he asks questions. You're lost, Mr. President.]] When I gave this particular speech, you and your fellow ideas and career [[The president's ringing the bell.]] His party partner immediately thought it was the United States of America. What made you think that, Congressman? The text did not contain any country, no grip, no handle, no key that would lead to this conclusion. Were you aware of this attempt to influence you at the time? Did you know about the other operations, the operation of Péter Róna? Did you know about the four-hour bank panic attempt the following year? Well, that's the kind of question we'd like to get answers from you. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. György Szilágyi: You don't ask the questions!]]
u2017-04-03-124	Thank you very much. Thank you, President Matolcsy. A one-minute rejoinder is entitled to Congressman Cook.
u2017-04-03-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The genre is reciprocating, but I don't think I can be interpelled yet, or I don't know if they want to move house changes so I have to answer them. We ask the questions, Mr. President, and you have to answer them because that's the rule. Speaking of which, be nice to tell me which four cities the bank panic was in for four hours, when it was, because the last time you spoke here on the pulpit, you said it was that year, not the next one, and now you said it was the next year. So, here's the thing. He's talking nonsense. [[János Halász: For now, you're the one talking nonsense!]] And it's really hard to get out of that spiral of lies that you're involved in. I think it would be better if you spoke disciplinedly, or if you fail to say something in a disciplined and unworried way, then a person who is responsible for Hungarian monetary policy and has a serious influence on economic policy must resign. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-03-126	Thank you. The rejoinder also deserves President Matolcsy.
u2017-04-03-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Did you know about that? [[Deterioration in opposition benches. Dr. László Varga: What's going on?]] that Péter Róna, because you are not above the law, so you can be asked questions, was charged with an attack on the Hungarian National Bank in mid-August 2014 on why the Hungarian National Bank bought a violin? Do you know that for two months, every opposition press organ and every opposition party, at least the left parties, repeated this? Are you aware that the Hungarian National Bank bought a violin? Were you at the meeting with Peter Róna when they came up with this? Were you at that meeting, honourable Member, when you were dealing with the Internet tax protest? [[Sándor Szabó: What medication are you taking, Mr. President? That's what I need.]] Did you know about the broker scandals in advance, Congressman? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Back off! Get back!]]
u2017-04-03-128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Can a paradigm change be expected? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár as Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office to respond. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2017-04-03-129	Thank you, Mr. President, but I can take this one week, I'll wait for the Prime Minister. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-03-130	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Gábor Vona, a representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. The Prime Minister cannot be a national security risk. It's an address. The Prime Minister asked Minister János Lázár to respond to the urgent public task. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2017-04-03-131	I'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-04-03-132	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. The Fidesz is synonymous with arrogance. It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr István Nagy State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[On the sign of Hungarian Zoltán:]] Congressman says yes. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2017-04-03-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. In the future, do not do this, at least if you do not want to have a problem with it, said Secretary György Czerván's threat to József Bozsik Jr. This is a fairly blackmail-smelling phone conversation, which has also come to light, and another eloquent example of how Fidesz is handling these situations, although József Bozsik Jr. Jr. had nothing else to do but criticize those large horse investments on a professional basis, and here I can highlight the example of Szilvásvárad, which is indeed a professional objection. The federal captain of the drivers, at least at that time, also raised matters which would certainly be sensitive to the investor, or to the investment itself, but in no way political, remained professional, yet he was punished, and today he can no longer be the federal captain of the drivers. The questions are coming up. How is it possible that this covered horseguard was built by Lőrinc Mészáros' company again by accident? You may know, Mr Secretary, the problem is that we are talking about an unheated audience, which is worrying in the middle of Europe in 2016, when they say they want to promote equestrian sports. I hope you weren't involved in using the same heating for private purposes in the Isaksák hunting house, and it's no coincidence that the mayor of Isaks is still vice president of the cavalry. So the question arises as to why Lőrinc Mészáros had to build it. Why did this happen by accident to be 1.6 billion forints more than originally dreamed of investing? And why is this complex, according to the cavalry department, unfit to perform its duties? At all, Mr. Secretary, why did the great horse-horse development promises only make it possible to steal the investments? I look forward to your substantive response to these. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-03-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2017-04-03-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Let me reject the accusations you have made. What's this about? It is about the fact that the Hungarian government has never been able to support equestrian sports to an unprecedented extent, it is carrying out investments and developments that have not been experienced in long, long decades. With the full agreement of the cavalry, an investment will be made to Szilvásvárad, since Lipica is one of our national prides. A plan is being drawn up to be adopted, approved by an investor, and implemented by this plan. I think this thing is totally okay, because if it's the international standard, it's the protocol, then that's how they do it. All the little mistakes that must be made before the expiration of the warranty period must be corrected and, of course, implemented. For what you have raised, let me ask you more or let me say that when two passionate people speak... - because the riders are all the most dedicated, highly qualified, passionate professionals in this sector. At a time when two people are talking to each other about it, they express their concern for the profession, and nothing else has happened, because the government has no say in who is or is not the president of the riding alliance, it is not up to us, but at the assembly where this gentleman is voted or not voted. I would like to ask another question, my dear fellow Member, which we should be thinking about, namely who recorded the recording, whose interest it was to make public why this is happening. [[Dóra Dúró: The truth is that it is in all our interests what public money does!]] I think that raises some serious concerns or serious questions. When you say it's not a political story, then whose interest is it and why is it happening? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Zoltán Magyar is entitled to the rejoinder.
u2017-04-03-137	Secretary of State, we're on that horse backwards. The question here is not who recorded the conversation and why it came to light, but why it is possible that the Secretary of State of the Hungarian Government is blackmailing a federal president. [[Dóra Dúró: That's right!]] How is it possible that the Secretary of State could still remain in his place? [[János Lázár: The Best State Secretary! Who's the worst?]] You're talking professional debate, professional bias. Minister of State, in this telephone conversation you also admit that you do not understand the horse trade, you do not even care about the horse trade, he was merely interested in shutting down József Bozsik Jr., József Jr., Jr., because it is in your interest that only people who fully share your position, even if Lőrinc Mészáros has made an unprofessional investment for HUF 1.6 billion more expensive. [[16.20]] This is the problem, and I hope that there will be consequences, because there is no way, that is not normal in the middle of Europe, that an otherwise respected man, accepted by the profession, will only be killed because he is professionally afraid to criticize an investment. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-03-138	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Secretary of State.
u2017-04-03-139	I'd like to tell you that we're talking about the finest secretary of state in the Ministry of Agriculture. Mr. Secretary of State is certification of professional composure and competence every day in his work. If Mr. Secretary had been blackmailing me, this phone conversation wouldn't have been like this. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] As he said, as he expressed it, it is fully evidence of his professional concern, precisely so that it can be used as much as possible for the Hungarian cavalry society. By the way, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Member to the fact that the Government has never spent so much money on investments. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] This is a start-up investment, and we are taking these investments step by step. I think that the whole cavalry community owes thanks to the Hungarian Government for the development and investment we can make at this level, to this extent and in this capacity. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Answer the question, thank you for the lecture.]]
u2017-04-03-140	Thank you, Secretary of State István Nagy. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is the explanation? It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár has appointed Minister for Answers. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2017-04-03-141	Only the Prime Minister can answer that, so I'd like to wait. Thank you.
u2017-04-03-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, Benedek Sallai and Bernadett Szél, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: Why is the government afraid of a referendum on enlargement? It's an address. Prime Minister cannot reply personally, he asked Minister János Lázár to reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept the recipient's identity.
u2017-04-03-143	Thank you. We'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2017-04-03-144	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. The Fideszes are already in the pantry with their title. Prime Minister cannot reply personally, he has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-04-03-145	I accept, thank you very much.
u2017-04-03-146	Thank you very much. Then it's up to Congressman Ákos Hadházy.
u2017-04-03-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Last time we talked about Hódmezővásárhely, we're talking about Szekszárd. All you need to know is that there are three good friends, Mr István Horváth, Károly Amrein, director of the Gemenc Volán - now called otherwise - and an Opel dealer are very close, as well as fellow hunters. It happened that Gemenc Volán sold its Paks site to István Horváth and the joint company of the Opel dealer for HUF 180 million in 2009, but from the next day it was rented back by Gemenc Volán for HUF 25 million a year, and very soon MVM Informatika Kft., which was Paks II. IT company, and for 55 million HUF/year, he rented the other half of this area. So one half of it was rented back by the Gemenc Vola, where the buses are, and the rest of it was rented by Paks II. IT rented it. In total, it hurts the state in 80 million forints. So he sold it at the Gemenc Vola for 180 million, in practically six years - six times 25 million forints - he paid it back at the Gemenc Vola, and this year it was renewed again. Obviously it was necessary to store buses, but the lease contract was extended again for HUF 25 million/year, and even for 6,000 HUF/hour, this company offered to service buses. But next to him, he came in, and the office building was Paks II. He's gonna rent it from her. I ask you if it is a coincidence that this area was immediately rented by MVM Informatics or MVM Zrt., operating the nuclear power plant, and what is your opinion of this case, which is very similar to the time when the resort in Balatoneszöd was leased by Ferenc Gyurcsány's company, and then it was hired back by the state. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-03-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office.
u2017-04-03-149	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I am a great admirer of the Szekszárd body of representatives and of all citizens of the town of Szekszárd, and I am very pleased that, with the help of the Member, we get a detailed insight into the everyday life of the electorate in Szekszárd. Although, for the record, I'm not fully prepared for all the conditions of life in Szekszárd, I don't even know his financial situation. I'm still stuck there that you were once part of this group you were talking about. So, with internal information such as you, who for many years belonged to the Szekszárd body of representatives and the political majority of Szekszárd, I obviously do not have it, so my answer is obviously incomplete, but I will fill the gaps in writing as follows. Firstly, I would like to point out that Hungary's Government is committed to developing the city of Szekszárd. When Prime Minister agreed with the Szekszárd representative body on the programme of modern cities, it was an important part of how Tolna County and Szekszárd could connect to the maintenance of the Paks nuclear power plant. We are interested in providing the town of Szekszárd and the region of Tolna county with an investment of EUR 12 billion in the capacity maintenance of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant in terms of vocational training, higher education, the provision of skilled labour and other economic opportunities. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: And István Horváth.]] I am very pleased with the Member's question, and I am very pleased that Mr President, in the colours of the LMP, is therefore in favour of Mr Paks II. It is pleased to note that the municipality of Szekszárd and the Szekszárd can also benefit from this investment. As a matter of fact, Paks II. I will have you examined, Congressman, and, if you allow me, I will inform you in detail of this in writing. It was not clear from the question that you asked me exactly what you were going to ask me, so I have not been able to order the investigation so far, but I will order it, Congressman, and I will inform you of the fate of the property. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-150	Thank you, Minister. I give the floor to Congressman Ákos Hadházy in return.
u2017-04-03-151	Thank you very much, Minister. I can tell you more about it, and maybe I will. I think that if István Horváth's company receives 55 million forints a year from Paks, it will not make every citizen of Szekszárd happy. But thank you very much for looking into it, and I'm very much looking forward to your reply.
u2017-04-03-152	Thank you, Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Minister Lazarus.
u2017-04-03-153	I can only confirm, Mr President, that we would also like to include the town of Szekszárd among those settlements, including Kalocsa and other settlements in the area, which could benefit from this investment and from maintaining the capacity of the Paks nuclear power plant. I am pleased that you are working on this and that you will help us to increase and enrich this area by investing. And I especially appreciate, as your fellow Member of Parliament, that we can enjoy the weekdays of Szekszárd here in Parliament every Monday when he speaks. True, there are still 3,200 settlements in the country, in case they come along. That's what I'm asking of you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-154	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr. Balázs Simon Róbert, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question. It's an address. Minister has appointed Mr László Szabó Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2017-04-03-155	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2017-04-03-156	Thank you very much. Mr Simon Robert Balázs has the floor.
u2017-04-03-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Economic cooperation between Hungary and the United States is constantly increasing, taking into account the past period. American economic policy, which is changing, is creating a new situation in the world economy as well, so Hungary is committed to strengthening its competitiveness in the current circumstances, as it has become certain that there has never been so much American investment in the country. The value of American investments today is about $9 billion. There are nearly 1650 businesses in the country with American interests that employ more than 100,000 workers. Hungary intends to build a common economic story with the United States, the next step of which is to create a new high-tech factory in Europe. [[16.30]] The Spicer gear production plant is set up in my constituency, Győr, where regional orders are planned to be met by the Dana Group's global customers. The US Group of Dana automotive companies will launch a HUF 15 billion new investment, resulting in 200 new jobs by 2020. The company invests some EUR 46 million in the implementation of the new production unit, with HUF 2.9 billion of support from the Hungarian government. The construction will begin shortly, since the foundation stone of the factory's fourth site, and precisely its time capsule, will be placed in the presence of Minister Péter Szijjártó in two days. On this basis, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State whether Győr is also attractive to American investors. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2017-04-03-158	Thank you, Congressman Simon Robert. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs László Szabó.
u2017-04-03-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, We could talk a lot about American-Hungarian relations, but perhaps you raised the most important and relevant topic for the Hungarian people. The fact that the Hungarian economy has become attractive to American companies in recent years is quite clear, as you said, now that there are almost two thousand American companies here, they are already giving more than a hundred thousand Hungarians jobs, and it is clear that they are no longer looking at Hungary as a assembly plant, but are bringing very high-quality technologies here, and it is quite clear that the dedication of Hungarian workers, their professional skills and their attitude to work are an attraction for American investors. Hungarian economic policy was clearly in the right direction in 2010 and, during its continuous refining and adaptation to world changes, a very attractive environment was created, the transformation of the tax system, the introduction of dual training, the adoption of flexible labour law rules are now producing results. Dana's new production unit in Győr is also not a unique phenomenon, we see this in all parts of the country that foreign companies are coming and are doing more and more value-added activities in the country. If you look at the identity of the investors and the company that voted for Hungary, it is worth telling you that they already have more than 110 years of history and are the world's top in the production of high-quality drivetrain, gasket and heat exchanger systems. Last year, they had over $6 billion in sales and 25,000 people worldwide. It is also important to mention that last year Forbes magazine selected Dana as one of the 100 most reliable companies in the United States. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-04-03-160	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Robert Simon.
u2017-04-03-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. I myself am of the opinion that Dana made the right choice when choosing Győr as the seat of its newest investment, because earlier, when the competitive period was, Slovakia also came up, and they clearly voted for Győr, i.e. Hungary. And I am particularly pleased that 200 new jobs will be created again in our city. Of course, the city is constantly trying to provide the right quality workforce for this. I just wish for all of us to have this new investment, and not only at the foundation or at the time capsule placement, but also at the handover. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-04-03-162	Thank you, Congressman Simon Robert. I give the floor to the Secretary of State László Szabó in return.
u2017-04-03-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman, there is one thing we have not discussed, and that is that this company is already here in Hungary and is investing again. And I think it is important to see that they already give 545 workers from Győr and Győr to work and to their families. It is great to talk about this because we saw last year and the year before last that two thirds of the large Hungarian investors are reinvesting in the country. This means that we are not talking in the air, but the promises that the Investment Agency, HIPA, gives them, they do not fly away in the wind, we keep our promises. And it is quite clear that these investors are enjoying themselves in Hungary. We saw in a survey last year that 80 percent of the members of the German-Hungarian Chamber of Industry and Commerce consider the possibility of reinvestment. This is why it is worth working for, which is why it was worth learning these macroeconomic rules so that Hungarian people could manage in this way. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-164	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "When can we see you clearly on SEVIÉP?" It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-04-03-165	Yeah.
u2017-04-03-166	He'll take it. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor.
u2017-04-03-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. László Botka's appearance has obviously changed the situation in domestic politics, and it is clear that the Fidesz communication machine has also started, the lie factory has practically reached its peak, today László Botka and the Seviép's name are more often mentioned in the Fidesz media empire than, as they say, the water station report, is accused, or they talk about the orders received from Szeged as a company in Szeged, and that this company had political connections. Let's see what's real compared to that. Can you deny, Minister, that by the way, during the Fideszes mayor of Szeviép Bartha László, he was given a direct commission of several billion forints from a city with Szeged county rights in 99 and 2001? Can you deny that during the first Orbán government, this company called Seviép received more than 28 orders worth more than HUF 10 billion from the Hungarian government, Fidesz mayors and municipalities, including Hódmezővásárhely? Can you deny that when we talk about political relations, Minister, that László Pistrui, who is one of the defendants of the case, has previously worked in a joint company and has been a co-owner of László Tímár, Vice Mayor of Fideszes Szeged? And please deny that if you know that Sándor Baranyi, another defendant in the case, who was already prosecuted, became Chief Counselor of the former college roommate of the then favorite oligarch of Fidesz, Viktor Orbán, after the 2010 change of government. Please, Minister, either deny them or admit that in the Seviép case, Fidesz is up to its neck and apologize to László Botka for the discrediting campaign they're doing to him. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-03-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2017-04-03-169	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, I have exceptionally hoped that you would not accept the person of the respondents, my fellow Member, even because not so long ago we were mayors in two cities 20 kilometres apart, and although we disagreed on a large part of life's issues, there were some issues in which we could work together, and I always respected the will of the voters in Szeged, so I would not like to throw mud backwards or make any political comment on this matter for the future. Obviously, voters will decide what political decision they will make in the country and in Szeged. However, as mayor of practice, I find it unthinkable that in 15 years the municipality would not have had any contact with one of the largest local taxpayers. This also applies to the period before 2002 and beyond 2002. What Seviép did in Szeged between 2002 and 2017, we can all see the cash register of this. As I understand it, 500 businesses have failed with the bankruptcy of Seviép, and I find that many small and medium-sized enterprises in my constituency have never received the money that would have come after the decent and well done work. I think that the Szeged municipality - at least that's what I read in the local papers - would have had the opportunity and opportunity to cooperate in some form with the injured people who, in my view, were cheated and stolen by the owners of Seviép, their leaders, in a fraudulent manner, committing crimes. And I believe that this is not too late, so I would ask you to help my former colleague, Mayor László Botka, find a way to help the people who are injured by Seviép. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-170	Thank you, Minister. I give the floor to Congressman Belling a one-minute rejoinder.
u2017-04-03-171	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Minister, if you were to broadcast what you said all day and night, I probably wouldn't have asked you anything today. Only they lied to their noses and mouths, destroying people's lives, slandering and smearing, this is the case, while the man sitting on the defendant's bench was only the former deputy mayor of Fidesz, and the other defendant Lajos Simicska was the chief advisor after 2010, while, by the way, a large number and clearly, Viktor Orbán's background empire and money were met by this man. [[16.40]] I understand that people are in trouble. I also think they should be helped, Minister. But then you shouldn't lie about László Botka's role, because it has something to do with that company being registered in Szeged! And with all the other crap, it looks like you're gonna have to account for it. And if you're looking for a solution, please don't look for a man to be humiliated and lied about this whole thing. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-03-172	Thank you, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2017-04-03-173	After the Hungarian language developments of the weekend behind us, I think it is safe to say - and in your speech it was also a language objectionable - that we are looking forward to an exciting and particularly not-quality election year. What I can tell you is that if you can't handle the challenges and difficulties of the election campaign, don't start. I've been on a pretty good number of election campaigns. I believe that the events of the last few days prove that the country will be part of the worst election campaign of the thirty years left behind. [[Attila Mesterházy: What are you talking about...]] We're interested in the damage [[Dr. László Kács: Answer the question!]] What an election campaign has to do with the country, let's cut it down. Therefore, I would like to continue to ask, my fellow Member, that people be at the centre and that they be the most important. What we need to do is find a way together, maybe, to get the victims of Sevié, those 500 businesses, to get their money. And yet the political lesson is that the city where the company has been operating for 15 years for the biggest enterprise in a city has some responsibility, regardless of the parties. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Attila Mesterházy: Dirty...]]
u2017-04-03-174	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "When will you finally realize that there is a big problem? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary for his reply. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-04-03-175	I'll take it.
u2017-04-03-176	Congressman says yes. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2017-04-03-177	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Not a week goes by when no statistics or surveys show that migration is a very serious problem. We can see this from this, and I would just like to recall two of these statistics: 45 percent of young Hungarians aged 15-29 who are studying in higher education consider that they can settle permanently abroad. In fact, last week news appeared that 78 thousand children have been born abroad from Hungarian parents since 2010. This means that more than 15 percent of Hungarian children, one in six children, saw the light of day abroad. You deny trouble, even though these numbers clearly show that the problem is huge. You have only one attempt, come home, young man! A program that may have brought home a few dozen young people in a year and a half. You came to the conclusion that the program didn't work, and you haven't done anything since. I think this is outrageous. There are a series of problems that cause this exodus. You could say the educational situation. Not only do they get involved in education as violently as we can see now in the CEU, or even in higher education and public education, there is chaos. We can see what serious problems there are in housing, temporary housing, the increase in rent prices are not at all concerned, or the fact that a public housing programme is being launched. Or it is also the fact that young people are deterred and driven abroad to see the kind of corruption that prevails in Hungary, and it is not the talent, it is the diligence that depends on who comes forward, but on who has better government relations. In view of all this, in view of the problems, in order to be able to start thinking together about the solution, for which Jobbik has, and will have, a number of proposals before and after, my first question would be to the Secretary of State whether they acknowledge that the problem is serious, that migration is a huge problem, because in order to be able to talk about the solution, it is necessary for you to say that there is a serious problem. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-04-03-178	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Farkas. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2017-04-03-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I regret that the facts that have been raised over the past period and that have been mentioned many times here in Parliament, and the measures, the intentions, the will and the manifestations that the government has done in order to develop in the field of employment policy, in the area of wages, are a situation where people who have been thinking about taking a job abroad will change their minds and take a place at home, or just those who are abroad, think about coming home. And there's practice and there's a lot of examples. But given that we have achieved results in this area, let me tell you, in repeat and now several times, that employment has increased significantly in Hungary over the past period. Only the competition sector - I would like to give an example of this - has employed 144,000 more workers in the last year than in 2016. This means that there is a strong demand for people who want to work, and wages have also increased significantly. This means that, if family tax relief is taken into account, net wages, which can also be said to be in real terms, have increased by more than 25 percent in the last six years, so that they have increased significantly and, in addition, wages have increased to the most significant extent in Central Europe. As a result, it can be said that a large number of people who have been thinking about going abroad did not make that thought or perhaps the announcement of intent a reality to the extent that they might have shown in a survey on a statistical number. Thus, it can be said that the number of people who have tried themselves abroad has been balanced over the past period, so temporary work is carried out abroad, and those who come back to Hungary or work in Hungary, including those who are coming home and abroad there. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] of working Hungarians. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-03-180	Thank you very much. Congressman Wolf has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2017-04-03-181	Thank you for the floor. You said a lot of things, Mr. Secretary, that don't cover reality. I can only react to one thing because of the shortness of time. He said that wages have increased significantly. Allow me to disprove these with one statistic. In a regional comparison between 2006 and 2015, the growth in the countries of the region was 60 per cent over this period of around 10 years, compared with 16 per cent for us. This is what you think is significant and very, very low in a regional comparison. That's why Jobbik initiated the Union of Wages initiative. We have set out to start a fight to achieve Western European wages in addition to Western European prices; once the goods have been made, the Wage Union will also be implemented in Hungary. It's a long fight, a fight that Fidesz has never fought in its three-time administration. We have never heard from Viktor Orbán that he would have declared a freedom fight for this. That's what Jobbik announced. The question is whether they can support this fight. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-04-03-182	Thank you very much. State Secretary Cseresnyés also has the opportunity to rejoinder.
u2017-04-03-183	Thank you very much. His last sentences were made by the irresponsible situation of the opposition, I think, because you can say that. [[Grumbles and interrogations from Jobbik's benches, among other things: Not for long.]] that, when you start talking about 2006, you might want to ask the next door, to your right, what the members of the socialist government did, how they put you in bankruptcy or near bankruptcy. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP, including Dr. László Varga: You have been governing for seven years...]] this country since 2012-2013 [[The president's ringing the bell.]] real wages are constantly increasing in Hungary. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: Average...]] When we managed to stabilise Hungary, the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian wages have increased since then, and employment has increased significantly. These are the results that you do not want to acknowledge, and you are trying to drag public opinion into an irresponsible adventure that may result in the destruction of businesses and Hungarian businesses. So I think that these proposals, which you have tried to formulate, should be discussed first with entrepreneurs, Hungarian small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Dóra Dúró: We'll talk about it.]]
u2017-04-03-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. When can the eHealth service system be launched in Hungary? It's an address. The Minister asked Secretary Bence Rétvári to respond. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[On Dr. Imre Vejkey's signal:]] Thank you. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor.
u2017-04-03-185	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Not so long ago, in December 2015 this House voted on T/7404. The proposal for a regulation on health and health insurance, which created the possibility of the most important part of the national health information system, the eHealth Service Space, i.e. the ESZT, in addition to several other health and health insurance issues. [[16.50]] There will be no need for papers in the new system, so patients will not have to carry their previous records in a dossier, nor will the medical documentation be lost, because they will always be available and found in the government cloud. In the cloud-based electronic system, health institutions, doctors, pharmacists can access the patient's previous data, tests, findings and medical documents via a computer. The cloud-based electronic system will also link all three levels of the supply system and the background institutions, including data from all actors in health care. It is important for the patient to be able to prohibit central storage of his/her health and care and, in the course of digital self-determination, to determine when to see medical documentation. For patients, the electronic health service space offers ease, greater safety and faster recovery. Dear Secretary of State, As far as we know, a significant proportion of public-funded healthcare institutions already have the necessary IT capacity. That is why I ask the honourable Secretary of State when the eHealth service system can be launched in Hungary. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-04-03-187	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Today, we can handle almost all of our cases through cell phones or computers. [[Dóra Dúró intervenes.]] This is becoming increasingly widespread, and I think that many of them have been doing their banking business through computers for years. This is why the government has decided that the same technical and user degrees must be achieved in the field of health. That is why we have created the e-health system, in which, as the Member said, with a government storage capacity in a cloud of all kinds of health data, findings, diagnosis, previous test results or interference are visible. In March this year, his annual trial run started in 11 hospitals, 22 GPs and 36 pharmacists. In previous years, we have already tried to create this infrastructure, as 69 percent of hospitals, 72 percent of GPs and 85 percent of pharmacies would be able to join if I looked at the technical conditions. This was based on the fact that the ÁEK implemented a HUF 7.2 billion IT development in 191 public health institutions. This meant the provision of 10,000 IT tools, and in the coming years the government will contribute 1.2 billion forints to the maintenance of this system. As a result of this system, if a patient shows up in any of the studies, he will sooner or later, as the data is uploaded, he will not have to take the papers with him, which means that he will not forget one of those at home, one of which might rebut the older one, but the doctors who examined him will see exactly what his medical history was, what history he had, what sensitivity he had, what treatments he was through, what he responds well to, which treatments he may be ill, and what he may be allergic to, things that a patient himself cannot possibly remember, and this is already immediately and immediately. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] you will receive it individually for the patient at the start of treatment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Vejkey.
u2017-04-03-189	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply. As is usually the case with electronic systems, especially when talking about a cloud-based electronic system, there may be another question of security. I trust that the system meets a high level of security, but not only is the general security of the data important, but also the right to data processing of patients, i.e. a physician can only access data belonging to him in his field. I trust, Mr Secretary of State, that the system will meet these requirements perfectly. Thank you again for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-190	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also available to the Secretary of State.
u2017-04-03-191	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This is the case for everyone, which is why we have built this system with the highest standards of data protection. Several parallel defense solutions are used to prevent any illegal attempt to break into data. Only the treating physician and obviously the patient can see these data. In the pharmacy, the apothecary sees only as much data as is necessary to replace the medicine. No unauthorised user can access this system. At the same time, it is important that the referrals become e-references, the prescriptions that can be used to replace the medicines will also become electronic, e-sick history, teleconsultation and digital image transfer between doctors who are not in one place, but can discuss the patient's findings together, and then decide whether to intervene or modify an intervention. [[He replaced the gullible Dezső in the notary seat with Loránt Hegedűs.]] I think it's really XXI. We will be able to provide IT conditions for the first century this autumn, when this will start in all publicly funded institutions, and from next autumn, this system will be implemented in all health institutions, both publicly funded and non-publicly funded. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of "May Other" Politics, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Why are you doing this?" It's an address. The Prime Minister asked Minister János Lázár to respond. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2017-04-03-193	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Fidesz turned up the cultural campaign, hit the CEU with earlier propaganda voices, and they also want to justify the search for external enemies through government action. But have the consequences been assessed? Have they assessed the consequences of making one of Hungary's most successful, internationally recognised universities impossible? Are they counting on that shame, the deterioration of our international judgment? Are they counting on a reduction in our competitiveness? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is CEU responsible for Hungary's competitiveness?]] Are they counting on what is a good example, and has already recently come up with the desire of Romanian politicians to shut down Romanian Hungarian universities for the same reasons? Do you expect to limit the possibility for Hungarian researchers if this university moves on and finds a home elsewhere? Indeed, the CEU library is a library that is very sought after, and what can be found there is not elsewhere in Hungary. The standing next to CEU is not about standing up for ideologies on our part, and I think there is much more going on here. The LMP would do the same if the University of Pázmány or Károli were attacked. There is virtually no Hungarian public, professional, scientific public life, or higher education at present who would not condemn this step of the government. Fidesz-KDNP, we feel that it is now facing everyone, has managed to divide the country again, instead of trying to resolve it in a constructive dialogue with a foreign university, if there is a problem. They're not looking for the middle, they're not looking for the common denominator, they're pushing everything through force. Dear Minister, Why are you doing this? It's really more important to support government propaganda. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] as one of the most successful institutions in higher education? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-04-03-194	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2017-04-03-195	Thank you very much. Your Honour, my fellow Member. Mr President, I believe that the LMP is also part of political speakers who use the case for political hysteria instead of talking about simple facts. My fellow Member, you know very well that in 2017 the operating license of foreign universities operating in Hungary expires. It is perfectly normal that, over the last two years, the government has examined in detail the operation of these universities. I would like to point out that in the course of the investigation several universities have not even answered the questions of the government, namely the Education Office. It has also become clear that there are organisations among them called higher education institutions who do not carry out real higher education activities. This is why the Education Secretary of State has proposed that we try to establish a transparent, accountable and fully clear system in this world by amending the Higher Education Act. Three simple conditions have been proposed by the education government, on which Parliament will debate tomorrow. One of them is that behind the foreign university there should be an agreement between the Hungarian State and the country of origin. [[17.00]] Do not tell me, Congressman, that you, who are responsible for this Parliament, object to the agreement of the Government of the United States of America with Hungary on the functioning of three US universities in Hungary. The second thing is that the United States of America is recognized as an activity carried out by the foreign university. Congressman! I also think that this is a reasonable criterion for transparency, and that the fact that it is engaged in, or ensures, real higher education in America is not, I think, a condition that no one can fulfil. I'd like to point out that out of the 28 foreign universities, an American higher education institution claiming to be a dedicated liberal went through the investigation. If we were to fight ideologically, how could this American liberal university have passed this investigation? [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-03-196	Thank you very much. The rejoinder shall be granted to the Member.
u2017-04-03-197	Thank you. Dear Minister, The fact that there is a personalised legislation here, I think everyone but you can see it. So I could take examples here from the last few weeks, like with the red star, where there's a very similar situation. I think, and I'm not alone, that it's something like that here. It's enough to mention what you've brought up, the need for interstate contracts. Obviously, we can see that in connection with Andrassy University, where it is, that's probably why this is involved. I'm sure you know more than I do that the United States doesn't deal with this issue at federal level. And if I do, it would really be their intention to make this completely clear, so why don't you find a way to do that? After all, they have all kinds of diplomatic systems to do this without the whole world jumping on this suddenly, with a lot of Nobel Prize-winning scientists and so much more. Answer that, please. [[Gábor Fodor applauds.]]
u2017-04-03-198	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2017-04-03-199	Although I obviously have a worldview and values called provincial by the liberal press, I don't think it's the whole world that's talking about this. Well, I certainly hope this isn't the whole world, so don't overdo it, Congressman. On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the 27 EU Member States are not subject to regulation, so the Romanian example is completely lame. After all, Romania, as a member of the European Union, has a completely different relationship with higher education. I would just like to note that universities that also hold Hungarian education in Romania are universities operating in state recognition and even in the formation of a state. As regards individual legislation, Member, 27 out of 28 universities examined did not meet the basic criteria of transparency, accountability. Do you assume that if CEU is one of the best universities in the world, it cannot fulfil these basic conditions? Don't underestimate George Soros and his university teachers. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-03-200	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: "Let's stop the migrant business! It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Pál Völner State Secretary for his reply. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Congressman Péter Agh has the floor.
u2017-04-03-201	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, In the light of the events of recent weeks, we consider it particularly important for people to express their views on issues that seriously violate and affect our national sovereignty. That is why we welcome the national consultation that is now under way. We must be prepared for a great struggle. We can only succeed in this if we have people's support behind us. One such struggle can be expected in relation to our migration policy. The migrant support organisations are trying to discredit us by all means and force us to give up our border protection measures. This can, for example, be seen in the act on matters relating to the tightening of the legal border seal or in criticisms. Unfortunately, however, it seems that a well-organised migrant business is also taking place. The judgment of the European Court of Justice in the case of Bangladesh has clearly shown this. The Helsinki Commission would have to pay HUF 2.7 million, and they would even take $6 million from Bangladesh, even though no one knows where they are now. Legally and morally, we find this judgment outrageous, so we ask the government not to pay the Helsinki Committee. I would like to point out here that this can only be the first step in the field of business. If the Soros organisations will attack Hungary in all cases, they can sue 40-50 billion HUF in total from the Hungarian government. Of course, all this would go into Soros's pocket. Dear Secretary of State, It's unacceptable for them to profit from us. It is clear that this is what is happening. Therefore, our firm position is that this fine must not be paid, and we ask the government to do everything in its power; do everything in its power to protect our national sovereignty and to stand up in order to protect the safety of Hungarian people. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-03-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2017-04-03-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, in 2015, Europe was flooded by an unprecedented wave of migrations, and the inability of the coalition to fully support this was achieved by European leaders, smugglers and so-called rights defenders. We all remember the counterwind in which we had to bring Hungary and the police to the border, we had to build a technical barrier and we had to build the legal border protection that has been protecting Hungary and Europe's borders ever since. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The case quoted by the Member also dates back to autumn 2015, when in the so-called transit zone the two people who were spoken of as Bangladeshi, Ilias and Ali Ahmed, who then did not receive refugee status on the basis of the official procedure and court ruling, and left the transit zone to Serbia. The Helsinki Committee, which requested authorisation from individuals and sued Hungary before the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, joined the process, referred to the activities of so-called legal protection organisations. As a result of this lawsuit, the Strasbourg court made a false decision where, ignoring all the facts, it condemned Hungary. I would like to reassure the members of the group and those in the Chamber that we will, of course, turn to the Grand Chamber for a review. Hungary does not accept this decision, it does not want to pay the so-called defenders and those who do not have it, and who knows where our money would land. Thank you.
u2017-04-03-204	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Péter Agh in return.
u2017-04-03-205	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, It is clear from what you have said that the purpose of the migrant organisations is clearly to break the Hungarian security measures. To this end, they spread lies if necessary. Let's not forget, it happened recently, and the international press has also been accused of things that clearly undermine the criterion of telling the truth by Hungarian policemen, police officers at the border. These accusations, of course, have turned out to be unfounded slanders, and I think we should also thank every police officer and soldier on the border for their work and their sacrifice. Hungary, I think, must defend the European borders despite the attacks, because that is our duty and we cannot allow any pressure to take place. That's what we're asking the government to do in the future. Once again, I would like to stress that Hungary cannot assist in the Soros private business, the judgment must be appealed, because not only is it legally absurd, but it is also morally outrageous.
u2017-04-03-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-03-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, He referred to the fact that these organisations are making allegations without any factual basis, or to the accusations of our police officers serving at the border, who carry out their duties with the utmost professionalism and legal support from the government. For example, the moments of the judgment suggesting, in the former Bangladeshi case, that Serbia would not be a safe country are truly outrageous. We know that even Turkey can be classified as such on the basis of an agreement with the Union. Or excuses that illiteracy had limited WiFi access; I ask, who could not even sign their names, whether they were adapted to the different languages of the Web. But I could continue the line. The point is that, of course, in the course of the appeal, we will all speak out. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[17.10]]
u2017-04-03-208	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 5:09, and now we've got a series of submissions to discuss. The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on T/14327 on the protection of fair procedures and the transparency of public funding in order to create a clean political public life. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I will give the floor to the author in a five-minute time frame. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The re-submitted bill is part of the package we presented back in December at the World Anti-Corruption Day, part of a package of five different legislative proposals and a proposal for a resolution, one of the key and very important parts of it, since it proposes to redefine public spending and legislate new solutions. Allow me to give you a few thoughts from the rest of the package first, as they are closely linked, and, as we know, there is only a wide range of tools to combat corruption. This bill, which we are going to discuss here today - and I very much hope that the Fidesz Members will put this bill on the agenda tomorrow, because I believe it is also in their interest that the spending of public funds should be as transparent as possible and with the right consequences after breaking the rules - this puts a new solution to spending public and European Union funds on the table, which we believe can make a real difference in the fight against corruption. Why do I say that? The current experience is that, if any corruption is discovered, by the time it is brought to court, by the time the police or the prosecutor's office takes the matter to court with adequate or less suitable work, by then there is almost no real justice at the end of many years' litigation and court negotiations, and more importantly, where we can recover missing public money into the common register, which, I think, is one of the most important interests of Hungarian citizens, almost unprecedented in Hungary. Therefore, we propose that very strict rules of conflict of interest and very strict procedural law be laid down in the law on the one hand, and, on the other hand, by virtue of the power of the law, that anyone who violates this - for example, that he does not make public how each phase of the evaluation process after the decision took place, who has won, who has judged the proposals and under what circumstances, that their conflict of interest is otherwise completely fine - then, by the power of the law, that public procurement, that grant agreement, should be void. In English, if you haven't paid the money yet, you can't pay it to the contractor, and if you have paid the money to the contractor, and it turns out that you won the application in violation of the law, then you have to pay the money back. Why do we say that? Because, once again, it belongs to the truth, and it is an important manifestation of social justice, if we feed and drink the perpetrators of the crime in a few years' time, also with public money, in various closed institutions, and do not let them out of the air. It's a very important matter. But it's more important that the public money doesn't disappear, and if the public money wasn't awarded fairly to someone, then we can get it back. For it is possible to make real investment, or if you look at the current and present weeks-months, it could be used to spend money on health care, education or decent pension and living for pensioners, when just these years, months and days there are billions, tens of billions and hundreds of billions flying around the country, almost the same circle of entrepreneurs, in a completely transparent way. The rest of the proposal - and we would ask the Fidesz MEPs to support it, because once again, we believe that it is in their interest to have a system that prevents corruption and theft, not a system that makes it possible, and perhaps will punish them if any kind of misdemeanour is discovered, regardless of governments. The rest of the package of proposals was to put the system of declaration of assets in order to put in place the rules on corruption that the European Council has already drawn attention to in the courts and prosecutors, and most recently the judges themselves have turned to the Constitutional Court and Strasbourg, because there is a clear influence sought by the head of the new National Court Office and, finally, we have a proposal to avoid mergers and political accumulations. Our very respectful request is to put this public spending package on the agenda, and if you have any suggestions for the governing parties, let's put that on the agenda. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-04-03-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group.
u2017-04-03-211	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In the beginning, I would like to say that Jobbik supports any bill that moves the country towards a clearer and more transparent public life, but allow me to remember one or two things. In the general justification, the MSZP says that corruption has become a systemic element of public operation in Hungary by our days. Not only today, it's been a systemic element for the past 27 years. It is true that Fidesz has developed and perfected this, but this whole system has been developed together with Fidesz for the last 27 years, so they have a great responsibility. It is also stated in this general explanation that in 2010 the MSZP closed governance by adopting CLXIII 2009 on the protection of fair procedures and related legislative amendments. Law. Why was it adopted in 2010 at the end of their governance? Why not 2002? When they were in government for eight years, they could have really fought corruption, but it's always important to you, and it's only important to Fidesz when you're in opposition, fighting corruption when you're in power. When they govern, when they have had the opportunity several times in this country, they have not fought corruption. Plus, you have to tell them that they're in the background right now, constantly with the Fides. They're still accepting those little deals, the agreements the Fidesz has made with you to confirm you. This is the case in the case of László Puch, where Fidesz advertises from public funds at Népszava right now, so it is when they do not ask who Zsolt Tiffán meant when he told Viktor Orbán that they are mobsters, because Baranya County is controlled by two, and one of the MSZP representatives did not ask that either. Or so it is when, in the interests of great transparency, Fidesz and his family members refuse to disclose their property statements, as Jobbik did. One thing is certain: for the sake of a clearer and more transparent public life, there will be a substantial change in Hungary, when Jobbik will govern, because we will indeed create a clearer and more transparent public life, and not only will we submit papers, but we also want to change this whole system with actions, which you have developed together with Fidesz. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-03-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-03-213	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, We must pay attention to the fact that the MSZP is submitting a bill against corruption, because the Hungarian Socialist Party is an expert in corruption. They do indeed know how to circumvent the tendering procedures, as they practiced these methods in the case of Metro 4. Not to mention János Zuschlag, who ran an entire criminal organization, according to the court's final judgment, in order to steal the tender money. So this proposal is a bit late, as was the proposal that the rules on declaration of assets should be tightened, as Gábor Simon is also a politician of the Hungarian Socialist Party, who, in front of us, has sent hundreds of millions of forints abroad and kept abroad. So while the declaration of assets procedure would be tightened up, their own politicians violated the basic rules of the asset declaration procedure. Dear House, So the honesty of the MSZP on this issue is highly questionable. Their remorse may be acceptable, although a little delayed after seven years, after the end of their government, that they want to tighten up anti-corruption rules. [[17.20]] By the way, most of your proposals are simple bluffs, and Mr Szilágyi quoted them as saying what they have proposed, what they have said, they will not change anything. Rather, it would change the fight against corruption if the Hungarian Socialist Party could not obtain more public funds and exercise public supervision. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak on behalf of the other factions. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr Tamás Harangozó if he wishes to reply on behalf of the authors. Yeah. You have the floor in a two-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it was a pathetic, uncontroversial puffing that we heard in the walls of this House. There's not much good for this country in the next few months while you're in government, that's for sure. I would like to say to my fellow Member, Szilágyi, that we adopted the glass pocket law, well before that, which guaranteed that all local governments, all ministries, must bring all contracts to light. This 2009 law on the protection of a fair trial has indeed been adopted during our administration, if at the end of it, and I say to Mr Répássy, former State Secretary, that in 2013, Fidesz was almost the first to abolish this bill, and since then nothing else has been done... [[Dr. Répássy is talking to Dr. András Aradski.]] Look here, Mr. Répássy, you have almost completely fallen for the fact that the hundreds of billions of Hungarian National Bank are here with a law adopted in one day... [[To Dr. Pál Völner:]] Don't smile, Mr. Justice Secretary. [[László Kucsák: Why are you threatening me?]] Because your filth is, among other things, what went on here in Parliament. In one day, they wanted to make hundreds of billions of forints disappear with this phrase, that they lost their common currency? ! And you're educating us? ! Well, if the laws that were in force under the governance of the MSZP, fellow Members, would be a Canaan in the fight against corruption. And I would like to say to you that it is indeed a huge difference that János Zuschlag has been held accountable under the administration of the MSZP, and he has been prosecuted under the administration of the MSZP, while you are defending all the villains who, by the way, are wheelbarrowing the money home in this country right now. So I think that they have no right and no basis to start such debates here. Let's talk about that, and I have 15 seconds left to make sure that this bill, Mr. Répássy, is what your problem is. What is your problem with finally making a system that prevents these public funds from being used in an unfair way? After all, you're systematically saying that you can't pay these money if you see such irregularities. And I want the Fidesz to say something, and don't just toss and get dirty. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-03-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain criminal law laws and the final amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/14232. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-04-03-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Legislative Committee discussed the proposal last week, held a detailed debate on it and took a position on the amendments and submitted an amendment. I would like to tell you that 26 yes and 7 no supported the adoption of the law by the Legislative Committee. I would ask that the summary amendment be adopted by the House and that the law be adopted in its entirety. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Pál Völner, as rapporteur, if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I ask my fellow Members if they wish to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. Since no further speeches have been made, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on private international law and the final amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/14237. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-03-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to inform you that, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on Thursday, 30 March, you have adopted 27 amendments with a vote in favour, 7 votes against and no abstentions, and I would also like to ask on behalf of the Committee that this House adopt the summary amendment and vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-03-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, The Judicial Committee did not draft a rapporteur. We now have speeches from Members. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-03-221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to comment very briefly. Mr Répássy, State Secretary, said what had happened at the Legislative Committee meeting and that the summarised amendment had been adopted by a large majority. On the other hand, I would like to highlight an important point from it, which we were happy to support, and to say here at the plenary session of the Parliament, the amendment aimed at the fact that the law, although it is taxatological, but it also has an important symbolic and legal importance, is not to define in the family law part the sum of legal relationships in which the different forms of coexistence, but not the legal institutions resulting from the forms of marital coexistence, are defined. This is also important, because Hungary's Fundamental Law also provides that the concept of family is the same as that of marriage, and in this respect it is appropriate if the new private law proposal is in line with the Fundamental Law and the concept that we also have. So we were very pleased to adopt this amendment and, moreover, the law on private law could be said that it was time to make the amendment, which was still a legislative regulation. We may still have such a law, which is a decree of law, but certainly not much and not as significant as the law governing private international law. So it was time to replace it, and we are glad that even the final amendments included this taxatological amendment. To a lesser extent, we have failed to convince the majority of our proposals for amendments, which have tried to make them more precise at one or two points, and we believe that they are even easier to apply, but, in principle, we can say that it is a forward-looking proposal, a professional proposal, and we hope that this will also stand the test of time. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-03-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. Since the authors do not wish to respond to what has been said in the debate, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Now I'm ordering a three-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] [[17 .30]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Welcome Minister Sándor Fazekas. Next up is the XXXVII of 2009 on forest, forest protection and forestry. General discussion of the bill amending law and other related laws until closure. The government referral is T/14461. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Allow me to welcome our dear guests in the box from the forestry profession. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Minister for Agriculture Sándor Fazekas, the author of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2017-04-03-223	Mr President, Dear Parliament, We all know that our country's territory is covered with 2 million hectares of forest, which represents one fifth of the country's territory. The forest is the most complex land-based community and environmental element, which serves as a habitat for countless living creatures and provides a healthy environment for humans. In addition, the importance of our forests in combating climate change, all the circumstances, and so we have tried to take this into account in the drafting of the bill. More than half of the Hungarian forests consist of indigenous tree species and represent a high natural value. 20 percent of them are protected under national regulations, and 40 percent of them are part of the Natura 2000 network in large overlaps with protected areas. Ensuring environmental sustainability is therefore a priority for forests. At the same time, the forest is also a difficult natural resource, which, among other things, provides us with 7 million cubic metres of renewable industrial and energy resources each year. Forty percent of domestic forests are privately owned, so we now have half a million forest owners, typically in rural areas, and 50,000 forest farmers. There are thousands of entrepreneurs and tens of thousands of workers who do manual work in the forest. It can therefore be seen that forest is an integral part of rural life and forestry is one of the key rural employers. But the forest is not only a place of work, but also a place of active recreation. Most people get to green at least once a year to relax, play sports, have fun or have a social experience. So the public welfare services of the forest are not exaggeration, they are invaluable to society. If we are talking about the sustainability of forests, forestry, then we cannot ignore social and economic sustainability aspects. At all times, the forest laws had the task of ensuring the survival of forests, maintaining them in good condition, as well as wide access to services of general interest, by coordinating ownership, farmers and the public interest. This implies, in particular, the definition of public interest expectations and restrictions for forest farmers. Sectoral actors are aware of this and wish to meet these expectations. In the case of private forests, however, there is a legitimate need to limit farming and property in a well-founded manner and with as little administrative burden as possible. In particular, the existing forest law has led to positive changes in the area of increasing regulation in order to reduce administrative burdens and to ensure uniform application of law. However, a number of regulatory uncertainties have been maintained and administrative tasks related to forestry have been streamlined only partially. With regard to public forest restrictions, a regulatory environment has been created which, in some cases, provides an opportunity for unsubstantiated impositions without ownership and economic control. For this reason, the intention to amend the law was raised by the profession already after the entry into force of the law, and the preparation of the sector or our wallet was also invited by the national government that took office in 2010. [[Attila Gelencsér takes his place in the notary seat.]] The submitted draft law proposed a well-suited regulation, which leads to simplifications for certain forests, while maintaining the necessary state control over farming in addition to reduced administrative capacity in the case of forests of greater public interest. The draft confirms the importance of public forests in terms of public service services for forests, while giving priority to economic aspects while meeting the necessary and sufficient requirements for private forests. The draft law provides for an adequate basis for civil rights for private forest management. [[17.40]] Its final goal is to ensure that the legal situation of the 200,000 hectares of unsettled and 400 thousand hectares of uncertain status can finally be resolved after the quarter century after the change of regime. In many respects, the existing forest law still treats forest farmers as persons providing tasks of general interest, as organisations and not as persons who have a legitimate holding on their own property. Forest plans contain technology-wide standards, which greatly limit the freedom of farmers. The draft law, on the other hand, proposes framework regulation and planning for forestry, thus leaving room for farmers' initiatives. A key aspect in drawing up the draft was the possible reduction of red tape on forestry. From 1 January 2019, the draft law provides for the introduction of interactive administration and e-reporting based on forest records. In the draft, we are also proposing the elimination of unjustified procedural charges. With the amendment of the law, we would also like to promote a renewed increase in the need for forest planting, so that we can achieve 27 percent of the forest fry targeted by the government strategy within a foreseeable time frame. The current and expected raw material needs of the domestic wood industry should also be taken into account in increasing the volume and quality of forests. Following the example of our ancestors, in addition to indigenous forests, where this is possible, we also want to make it possible to plant and maintain a plantation forest specifically for economic purposes. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It has certainly become clear to you from the foregoing that our wallet has set itself the objective of a comprehensive revision and amendment of the forest law. The draft law was discussed in several steps with forest farmers, representatives of the forestry profession and their advocacy organisations, including the National Forestry Association, the National Agricultural Chamber and the National Association of Private Forest Owners and Farmers, and representatives of state forest farmers. Their proposals have always been examined and decided by their involvement. The stakeholders also support the draft law as a whole. Consultations on the draft law were carried out at government or ministry level with all disciplines, as well as with the opinions of several social organisations. Dear House, The government of national affairs wants to create a more livable, greener and greener Hungary. In this way, those affected by the sector will be freed from unnecessary burdens, fine-tuned, and protected with the weight of the law our national treasure, the forest. I believe that we are working on a secure future for the sector. "The man is worth as much as he uses," said Count István Széchenyi. That's the way it is with the law. I am convinced that this will serve the interests of the sector, the Hungarian forests, if the law is adopted. The amendments presented are necessary and timely, so I propose that the draft be adopted by the Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-03-224	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Győrffy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-04-03-225	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear fellow Members, XXXVII of 2009 on forest, forest protection and forestry A number of forward-looking changes in the protection and use of forests have led to a number of shortcomings and contradictions in its application. Ensuring forest services in the public interest and ensuring the sustainability of forestry remains a priority objective and instrument of forest sector regulation. However, in the view of industry, this can be properly implemented, in particular in the case of private forests, in addition to a more justified limitation of farming and property, and with a lower administrative burden. The primary function of state-owned forests remains to better meet the public interest services and societal needs of forests. The principles of the law will also be clarified in order to highlight the priority role of public forests. The aim is to regulate at the necessary and sufficient level. In line with this, it is not necessary that the scope or full scope of the law should cover such a wide range of wood-covered areas. The territorial categories of the forest law, in particular the concept of forest, need to be reviewed both quantitatively and qualitatively. There has been a marked increase in the range of areas of expertise with a well-founded restriction on forestry in the public interest over the past period. In view of this, it is appropriate to amend the sectoral legislation in order to enable it to properly identify and coordinate these specific aspects during forest management, district forest planning and official procedures. The Evt. After its entry into force, the Parliament created the new earth traffic regulations. There are contradictions between the two regulations which hinder the use and use of privately owned forests. In particular, in the case of undivided common-owned forests, Evt itself is incomplete or sometimes contradictory. The purpose of the law is, among other things, to ensure consistency with the CL of 16 on the general administrative procedure, which will enter into force from 1 January 18. The provisions of the law, and the Akr. introduce different rules for certain forestry processes. In view of the fact that the proposed amendment will enter into force on 1 July of this year, CXV of 2004 on the general rules for the administrative procedure and service in the transitional period. Its consistency with the law must be ensured. In the context of climate change, urgent measures must also be taken, in addition to the importance of forests in the fight against climate change and the need to protect them against the effects of climate change. Although the fact of climate change has now been clearly confirmed, we do not anticipate its consequences with sufficient reliability. The measures are therefore expected to take more steps in parallel with the acquisition of adequate knowledge. A number of proposals have been made in the past, in line with the programme of the Simply State and the Zoltán Magyary Public Administration Development Program. with regard to its amendment. Since the entry into force of the law, representatives of forest management, professional organisations representing forest owners, forest farmers and forest professionals and other fields of expertise involved in the economic, welfare and defence services of the forest have made a large number of comments and suggestions on the provisions of the law. In view of these considerations, the Ministry of Agriculture started a comprehensive review of the law and initiated the amendment of the law. The draft law was preceded by a conceptual preparation of more than one year. In doing so, the state of the Hungarian forests, its ownership, the public interest considerations underlying the regulation of forestry, the objectives set out in the national forest strategy and the rules governing the official control of forestry in other EU countries were reviewed. In addition to the related amendments to the Land Traffic Regulation and to the Law at the beginning of the year, the draft will also make a major contribution to the more efficient use of private forests. This has a positive impact on half a million forest owners and nearly 50,000 forest farmers. The economic performance of the sector will be improved by providing a necessary and sufficient level of requirements and restrictions in the forestry sector, which will benefit tens of thousands of employees and entrepreneurs directly, and hundreds of thousands of citizens, over a period of time. The amendment of the law reduces overall the administrative tasks of the forestry authority, in particular if the transition to e-administration can take place. It is important to stress that positive changes can be made without prejudice to forest conservation, nature conservation and welfare interests. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law was discussed in several steps with forest farmers, representatives of the forestry profession and their advocacy organisations. Their proposals were always examined and decided to include them. Overall, it can therefore be said that the draft law has been agreed with all relevant areas of expertise. In view of this, I ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[17.50]]
u2017-04-03-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-03-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that, of course, the contribution and proposals of the forestry profession to the law are respected and we recognise their work, but we have a lot of problems with the bill. We have a political problem, we have a problem in a legislative, public-law sense, and we have another problem that I would like to address in my speech. In political terms, we have a problem with this bill, which we have already said in connection with the so-called sale of land. What we saw at that time was that Fidesz stood fiercely for the protection of the Hungarian soil, and then practically gave hundreds of thousands of acres of land to the fidesz oligarchs and friends. At the time, we drew attention to the fact that the next large estate body, which is intended to be sold, will indeed be the Hungarian forest. Then we heard everywhere that this was a serious slander, but we could not believe the Fidesz general staff and the government, because we saw that in connection with the land we were told that no, no, they would never sell it, and then the state fields were sold. This was a process of more than one year, which took place at the time, and we also drew attention to the suspicion that - and this has been said in several professional forums - the next big one should be sold, let us say, that my property on the part of the Fidesz government will be the forest, and one of the foundations of this is seen in this law. We find that part of the bill that is particularly problematic and problematic is that areas below 3 hectares, if and if appropriate conditions are met, could be sold. We believe that fidesz creativity can extend to the fact that different areas will be divided into less than 3 hectares and sold in this way, and therefore, in any political sense, we find it unacceptable that, together with these parts, this bill would be acceptable. Of course, as I said, we not only have political concerns about the law, but we also have a problem in public law, in the legislative sense. Article 38 (1) of the Fundamental Law reads: "The property of the State and the local authorities is national property. The aim of the management and protection of national assets is to serve the public interest, to meet common needs and to safeguard natural resources and to take account of the needs of future generations. The requirements for the preservation, protection and responsible management of national assets are laid down in a fundamental law. In other words, paragraph A (2) is:. The scope of the exclusive ownership and exclusive economic activity of the State and the limits and conditions for the disposal of national assets of national importance for the national economy are defined by a cardinal law, having regard to the purposes set out in paragraph 1. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The 2009 law on forest, forest protection and forestry, which is currently in force, does not have any fundamental clauses, the proposal before us is 88. §2 of the Treaty aims to create this. According to this provision, the law in force 8. Paragraphs 1 to 7 and paragraphs 9 to 11 and 13 of Article 1 would become fundamental. At present, the 8th floor. Section 6 does not have paragraphs 10, 11, and 13, which would be incorporated into the existing law. § 1. The Law in force is incomprehensible 9. The exclusion of §2 of the Convention from the fundamental provisions, since, according to its norm, it is also the provision governing the use and exploitation of the forest. On this basis, it can be concluded that the proposal is set at 88. §8 is inaccurate, so it is unacceptable because it does not include Article 8 Paragraph 12, even though paragraph 13, which is deemed to be pivotal, explicitly refers to paragraph 12. It is also unacceptable because the 9th is missing. § is also an indication of the polarity of Section 9A and of Section 9A. § can also be classified as fundamental, as was otherwise the case in the Fisheries Act. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As I mentioned, the bill also contains two-thirds. Our view and our conclusion is that we cannot support this two-thirds regulation in any case, but, as I mentioned at the outset, the rest of the law would require a smooth half majority, but we cannot support this half majority unless we can accept our amendments to this. These proposals will also be presented in the following section, in the speech by Members, in detail by my fellow Member, Mr Haughty, what we would like specifically to ask for in order to be able to support only those parts that require a half majority. Overall, I would like to emphasise once again, Mr President, that our biggest fear, our biggest concern, is that the next large state asset to be sold will be the Hungarian forest, and the Hungarian Socialist Party Group cannot contribute to this in any way and in any way. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-04-03-228	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Congressman, please.
u2017-04-03-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Forests are indeed essential benefactors, their oxygen production capacity, their function to maintain biodiversity, their economic benefits, their tourist significance, their role in health protection is outstanding. At times, perhaps they deserve the introduction of the word "forests" in our public discourse. Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that regardless of party standing, we all believe that we should be wise in managing the forest insinuations that have been entrusted to our care. The rules on forests need to be adapted over and over again to current changes in the legal, economic and natural environment, preserving a delicate balance between biological and economic exploitation of forests. Sustainability must be a guiding principle in this work. We must eliminate the shortcomings of the forest law adopted in 2009 and the contradictions created by the creation of a new land traffic regulation. We must ensure the public interest services of the forest and the sustainability of forest management by reducing the administrative burden associated with them as much as possible, in line with the Simply State Programme and the Hungarian Public Administration Development Programme. Climate change also demands urgent action. This is also envisaged by the general justification of the legislative amendment proposal, when it says: "The forests, in addition to their importance in the fight against climate change, must also be protected against the effects of climate change. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We see the forest as a common treasure, a property that we inherited not from our grandparents, but from our grandchildren. With due responsibility and thoroughness, we propose the amendment of the laws on him, trusting in the understanding attention and the wisdom of all the Members of Parliament, as well as the love that István Fekete felt for the forest and the country when he wrote, "I have sought the way, I have mourned for the landscape, the stream, the dusty street, the reeds, the forest that smells of shrubs, everything, but I have not found a way out, and I have not noticed that I have found my country in the process. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear House, The KDNP Group supports the proposed bill, and I call on my fellow Members to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-03-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. I, too, welcome the representatives of the profession, and thank you for the beautiful words that have so far been spoken on the pro-government and national side of the forest. Of course, I fully agree with these words. It would have been good if this had been taken into account even when, since 2010, the signals from the profession had been virtually continuous, that the former forest law was outdated and that a comprehensive rethink would be worthwhile. Well, it's been a few years since we blew this opportunity around here. [[18.00]] I can say, too, that I have been returning from month to month, either in writing or verbally, to the Minister, when the referral will finally be expected. But let's look at the law itself. In the two-thirds section, I would like to highlight the possibility of privatisation. I must say that, otherwise, in the case of a fair government, it would be absolutely acceptable that, in cases where we are under 3 hectares, there is no 1/1 state property and no conservation value, the possibility arises for farmers and forest management workers in the region to practically sell it to the state. However, after such a history, which we have experienced in recent years, we are reluctant to give our name to this. I am thinking of the almost complete privatisation of state land, and just in our debate today, with Mr Secretary of State, when the land in the area of Bábolna was played out to the Monsanto by taking a land, perhaps 87 hectares of state land, land, three acres of land, and three acres of it, was bought by a fidesz local king, and then he united it, and he threw it out, and it became the property of Monsanto. Therefore, you may think that, after such a history, we are reluctant to give our name to this - once again - professionally decent government, even to justify privatisation. In the shots, allow me to call for help, as I am not a forest expert, but I have received suggestions, and I would like to look at them. If the forest has so many important functions and there is a social interest in the existence of the forest, why are most forest owners and forest farmers left out of the various subsidies? We're talking agricultural subsidies here. We have information that, in the negotiations prior to the seven-year EU budget cycle, Hungary could have asked for the opportunity for owners and farmers to benefit from these grants in some cases. Why did the state normative support of private forests and managers be withdrawn? A small amount of money, but thus non-professionals with forest ownership remained completely unskilled. How many of the amendments submitted by the forestry administration have been included in the law? It would be nice if I could get a list, because I've got information here that there's not much. I would also like to say a few thoughts about conservation restrictions, and I would like our words not to be translated. So we fully agree that the forest has a very important role in nature conservation and that restrictions are also needed to maintain these communities of life. At the same time, for example, in the case of a small-nosed bat or a black stork and a number of other examples, a private forest owner is facing serious extra costs. We have been informed that forest owners in many European countries will be compensated to maintain this very important public interest and to leave behind a living space for future generations where these organisms can live and reproduce. It would be good for this to be a public task and not for private people to be paid for, in the otherwise common good's view, really useful presence and activity. I can't find the expression. It has been introduced in addition to the words "supplier" and "supplier." This acacia case and a few more cases could be resolved with comfort. But if we disagree on that, I look forward to the answer to that, too. Why are Hungarian state forest assets currently being assessed by private companies? We have also had several rattles with Minister or State Secretary in this regard because these signs are quite worrying. This has been preceded by the Kehi studies, which have also revealed some shortcomings, some of which may be agreed, but they have developed quite an atmosphere of privatization in the area of the Hungarian forest wealth. We have a lot of citizens' complaints over the years about the national firewood situation and the shortage. Wood is released to the needy in late autumn when it is wet, raw wood, and only burns with poor efficiency. Landing stocks of forest farms are not sufficient to meet the needs of the population, and on muddy soil - due to autumn rains - transport machines cannot move properly, and other constraints of forest personnel are significant in the autumn. Foresting or hunting is what I think we should mention. What does the use of a significant firewood of about one million cubic meters per power plant cause a shortage or price increase for the residential firewood? It would also be good to have a reassuring response to the form in which progress can be made here in the future. Climate change has come up. It is very important, and here the role of forests is exponential. Very interesting studies on how to compete with the Balkan varieties of indigenous trees and how forests could be more robust in this case, if I may say so, against environmental and natural changes. The motorways and cultivated agricultural land have taken away, to a large extent, the chances of naturally overtaking these types in areas where this is justified have been reduced. We expect a maximum of government responsibility in this case, but we expect greater support for such research at universities, as we have received concrete instructors and research complaints here too, that they are on their own on this issue, while, unfortunately, this will be an issue of emphasis for the coming decades. After all, I can therefore say that we cannot support the two-thirds part. With a government like that and a history like that, I think that's understandable to everyone. In the half section, which is a professional part of the law, we will make it conditional on the adoption of our proposed amendments to tackle the current and similar problems, whether we can support this legislation or not. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-04-03-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Sallai R. Benedek that, as lead speaker, he wishes to speak now or later in a normal time frame. [[Sallai R. Benedict: Mr. President's voice!]] Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-04-03-233	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the floor, and I very much hope that, although there are obviously political thoughts in the GMO topic, this could be a professional conversation. But please forgive me if I find it very difficult to distance myself from my preconceived concept that if there is a possibility of stealing, Fidesz-KDNP will usually use it. It is very difficult for me to ignore this after seven years of government. But I try to take more into account forest management aspects in everything. I don't know what to start with, because I've collected so many nice things to talk about. If you'll allow me, I'll start with a quote because my fellow Earth Member inspired me. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The forest management itself, which requires very conservative procedures of its nature, finds its most secure, most suitable soil on the state and tied estate. I repeat, the sentence:, you will find the most secure, the most suitable soil on the state and the tied property. There is no need for further justification that, in this respect, the government and its private owners, but the consensus and support of the whole society, are the most desirable. I thought I would bring this quote because the 150th anniversary of the birth of Károly Kaán was one of the reasons for choosing the date of the referral, but I feel that Károly Kaán spits in the eye a draft forest law that basically creates relaxation in forestry that reduces the possibilities of public engagement and opens up significantly more space from the departure from the functions of public welfare. Basically, in order to get to the point, there are four points that guarantee our faction that the referral is unacceptable. The first is to allow the sale of forests below 3 hectares in accordance with the NFA law, thereby reducing the provisions limiting the lack of traffic in state-owned forests. The opposition representatives before me have already spoken about this. Obviously, what we have seen in recent years is that the misuse of land privatisation, the NFA law, has proved that where such a value as the Hungarian state forests or the forest property itself appears and can be stolen, the people who want to steal will also appear there. Obviously, you don't have to be afraid of a political attack here because I don't think that Sándor Fazekas or Márton Örs Bitay is taking the forest home, but I think that there are economic interests in the back of Fidesz who are going to come after it. It is therefore necessary not to create legislation that creates this possibility. It introduces a special eased regime for so-called free-range forests, which we are particularly concerned about. On issues which have been debated in many previous discussions, the regulation is referred to as a directive by another legal instrument, such as a ministerial regulation. For example, it is important to set a vegetation period due to the timing of logging. [[18.10]] I really don't want to give a political speech, but this is once again a return to regulation governance, so this is regulation governance. When a law, which, at the moment, is the jurisdiction of the supreme representative of the people, is in Parliament's power, we deliver it to ministerial level - and forgive us if we do not trust this minister, and if an opposition representative does so - it would obviously not be wise for Parliament to resign from such a right. Basically, obviously, if the governing party trusts its own minister, it can be forward-looking, but we to the one who, I don't know, wants to declare the white acacia, a non-existent species of wood as Hungaricum and does that, let us question his professional competences during the negotiation of a forest law, which direction we are going to go to! It is clear that it uses the flood protection provision as its primary purpose, which replaces the primary nature protection provision for virtually all watercourses, which we must retain in order to protect the natural wealth of our country, as an eco-party. This is obviously risky in many other respects, which is why I recommend to my fellow Member, László Földi, that you read not only the justification of the legislation. I liked to refer to how well the context of climate change appears in the explanatory memorandum, and this is precisely the provision that is contrary to what climate change otherwise causes. Such use of forestry and water management forest management facilitates water management that reduces water retention, which means that it facilitates the flow. This may be a necessary step for flood safety, if there is large water, to lower the country, but for water management in a country where the groundwater level has fallen five metres in the last 150 years and is expected to be semi-de Desert in a significant part of the Great Plain, the most stupidity. The wallet should be thinking about how water conservation farming can be carried out, and preparing for climate change would be precisely that it would be subject to these aspects of landscape management in this area. So, obviously, this would be the desirable direction. Because of these concerns, I have read this letter today with great interest, perhaps you have received it, and allow me to quote it, because it did not come from a opposition politician, but from an official appointed by Fidesz, the Deputy Commissioner who protects the interests of future generations, to the President of Parliament. In this letter, Professor Gyula Bándi informs the President of the Parliament of four very serious risks, in which it is first:. The priority of the nature conservation function of protected forests must be ensured in the forest law. It is of concern that the proposal does not contain provisions for the further development of the forest law, which would lay down sufficiently strict requirements for the protection, maintenance and preservation of the environmental elements of the common heritage of the nation, as provided for by the Fundamental Law, and for future generations. And here, of course, the basic nature conservation plan does not distinguish what is also legislation, whether it is on a waveground or not, but we are talking about protected forests. All of this is important because the Constitutional Court is the Constitutional Court of 16/2015. As a constitutional requirement in its resolution, it stressed that:. The non-compliance of protected natural areas with these conservation aspects and the subordination of economic considerations, in the case of secondary undertakings, with Article P of the Fundamental Law and Article XX. A provision which is contrary to Art. On this basis, maintaining the primary nature conservation function of protected forests should be a guarantee of constitutional value. This is the first point where the draft law tabled raises constitutional issues, since the Deputy Ombudsman also clearly states that the Constitutional Court, which is currently Regent, drew attention in 2015 to the fact that it is not possible to reduce the nature conservation provisions that could be implemented here in the draft law, for example, in the floodplain forests. In the second point, Mr Bándi writes: "The proper enforcement of the protection of Natura 2000 areas is essential. The Natura 2000 sites also serve to implement the nature conservation provisions of the Fundamental Law. The aim of the definition and maintenance of these areas is to preserve the favourable conservation status of other migratory avian species, species of Community and priority Community importance, habitat types, considered of Community importance. This is also where the context of the Fundamental Law is recalled by the Vice-Ombudsman:. When determining the Natura 2000 destination of forests and the activities in forests in Natura 2000, it is always necessary to take account of the species and habitats that, as a result of the implementation of the bill, protection standards should not be limited to priority species or habitat types of Community importance only. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This first suggests that the adoption of the forest law or the adoption of the amendment may be contrary to the prohibition of withdrawal with regard to nature conservation, but this is confirmed in a third point, in the point on the decline of the transition to permanent forest cover, since it clearly states that:. The draft changes these rules and narrows the scope of the regulation, and within this narrower circle, in the plain forests, it reduces the area where the transition needs to be implemented by half of the current requirement. The content of the obligation also narrows, allowing the use of a mode where it is not intended to switch to continuous forest cover. Together, the changes can significantly reduce the area where the continuous forest cover can be implemented. This is another important moment, since Fidesz-KDNP has already made a house call for a slap at the time when Fidesz-KDNP wanted to take over national park property management land from asset management, and the Constitutional Court took a relatively strong position that national park property management should be maintained, because this ensures it. This will be no different with regard to forests, so if the forest law so passes, it will always be able to exercise its right, with full professional merit, as the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Interests of Future Generations, as he will have the opportunity, beyond opposition representatives, to enforce the need for constitutionality with the amendment. It's a matter of legal guarantees. In forest management planning and decision-making processes, the current regulations of forest law ensure the nature protection authority, the body responsible for nature conservation management... - by the way, when the Minister kept a list of whom he had consulted, I don't know if the national parks were left out by accident. I assume that it would certainly have been a good idea to coordinate with nature, but for some reason this was not listed, while the state forestry and the agricultural chamber, so Fidesz conducted the negotiations with two of its own bodies. Obviously, what would be interesting is how other sectors and other social actors were involved, because when the Minister said in his introductory exposé that we had asked for the opinion of a number of social organisations, I would be very interested to say that the Hungarian Association for Bird Science and Nature Protection, WWF Hungary - because last week I held a consultation with civil society organisations within the Committee for Sustainable Development, and there I was informed that their problems and expectations did not really appear in the legislation, and that many of their questions remained unclear in relation to the original concept, thus maintaining their concerns. I would like to know that in the various social organisations - because the Minister's statement that we have asked for the opinion of a number of social organisations - does not mean that any of them have been accepted, and this is obviously a problem, since this does not bring about the kind of social reconciliation process that would be achieved by the fundamental expectations of legislation. So, in a letter sent today, Dr. Gyula Bándi informed the Speaker in four points how constitutional concerns about the draft law might arise, it would be necessary to take them into account when planning forest management and how the social interest that is basically reflected in the justification could be reduced. I would like to say to the Secretary of State, if you are already here in person, and forgive me if I repeat myself, I assume that you will certainly read what I am sending you. Earlier, a good year ago, when we talked about the concept of forest law, I sent you a detailed piece of material in which I highlighted several things. Please don't be mad at me if I quote a few things from this, because obviously the question is what we would like to support, or what would be acceptable to the forest law, and what would be desirable. For three years, since I've been here, I keep saying that the distinction between trees and forests in the cultivation sector should be implemented. Secretary of State, it's very simple: lawn, it's called lawn or pasture, and the wheat sign is called field, both grasses, yet we distinguish its cultivation. A tree plantation, a nobleneck, cannot be taken as a biological forest. This is the basis for us to start talking about forests, and to distinguish tree plantations from them. [[18.20]] Obviously, private forests and public forests should also be clearly separated in terms of farming intensity in procedural law. At the same time, after Prime Minister Viktor Orbán personally said in Parliament that the public welfare function of forests should be strengthened, everything should be clearly subject to this task. And with the state forests, frankly, I don't give a damn what the state forestry thinks, because it's supposed to carry out the orders of the people's representation, how to farm, and not tell them what's right for them. 'Cause what's good for him? It would be good for him to continue fishing in confusion as far as possible, to keep the two-million-dollar five-million-dollar state forest management payments, and to have hunting and game management abuses. I can quote a lot of articles about what's been going on in the past few years, not just under your government, but over the last 15 years in the state forestry. So, obviously, I am not interested in what state forestry thinks, but what is in the interests of Hungarian society. And then state forestry, once we've reviewed its activities and looked at what happened there, then carry out what has to be done in the interest of society. Obviously, the question of public forestry can determine the mood of this whole thing, because as long as we have to respect basically the right of the farmer to forestry in non-protected private forests, and there the possibility must be created that the private farmer in his private forest, which, as I said, is not protected and up to a protected species spends or lives in it, obviously the conservation rules must be maintained there, but it can also be reflected in forest management. While in public forests it is obvious that it is simply necessary to ban the end-use mode and the functions that focus on nature conservation, landscape management, water management, welfare functions, recreational functions. Since we do not see all of this ensured in the current forest law amendment, not denying that some points can improve the situation of forest farmers and that it can help, but since we have to vote together and judge the amendment of the forest law together, we cannot implement the aid at the moment. There would be a chance to do this with a change of substance and the weeding of a significant part of the two-thirds, but this would require a change of perspective in which FM does not seem to be able to provide personal guarantees right now. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-04-03-234	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Since there are no independent Members involved in the debate, no one has applied for a two-minute speech, so there will be further speeches. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The opposition colleagues before me have said the concerns that have come up in particular with regard to privatisation, and I do not want to repeat that, one thing is certain that we will probably not give our name to this type of stealth privatization. But I, as Zsolti said, have prescribed a number of things that need to be changed. These are not the two-thirds parts, and there is also a problem of perspective in this too, I think. I will not read them all or say them all, because it would actually be this detailed debate genre, which, of course, ceased in Parliament, but I think I would like to give you a taste of some, and I would also add that if they find understanding ears, we will still have our position on the vote of the half. I'd like to start with the scope of the law. In point (e) of this point, this applies to commercial operators. I think that this could be abandoned, because until it is placed on the market - especially in private forests - there should be no interference from the authorities here, actually, if it goes for its own purpose in private forest management, it has nothing to do with it. So I think that this part could be omitted without further ado, and we will write down this amendment. What is an important element and a good cause is a good idea, because most problems, now the biggest pain of forest farmers is that if there's an idiot in a community, it can prevent everything, this sharing issue, it's definitely positive. I would like to say one thing, Mr Secretary: but what I do not understand is why this can only be for two details. So in a larger forest, it's pointless to put it in two pieces, why not, say, in a 60-hectare community up to three, four or five? Because I'm not sure there's only one fool. So you're gonna have to pay attention to that. There is a measure of what is the minimum, we agree that there is no problem, but that this limit, that it can be no more than two, we do not know why it is. I think it's unviable, and you should think about it. There's one thing I think it's important for the forest farmer to choose how to renovate the forest. The current practice is a serious violation of the interests of owners and users. This is particularly a problem when, let's say, there is a shortage or a loss of seed. This should be dealt with more flexibly because it is very, very complicated, bureaucratic, the authorisation procedure. I think this law needs to be corrected. There's an element in there that's a forest restoration fuse. I think this is another issue that should not be addressed, because the collection of this, the accounting of this is very, very complicated. I think the authorities have the right to punish me if something doesn't work out. They have all kinds of driver's licenses. I would definitely get this thing out of the system, because it's completely pointless and unwarranted. So, Mr. Secretary, consider this in any case. Which, I said, requires a change of perspective, and then I don't know how the Ministry will press that down if you think about it, on the authority's throat, which, of course, isn't really in his jurisdiction. What I don't understand is that farmers should answer everything within 30 days, and the authorities get 90 days. This may be a problem in some cases, that you can have fun with certain cases for 90 days. I don't think the Ministry deliberately put that in there, so I'm guessing the handling people themselves thought 90 days was good enough for them. I would just like to point out that there is a general bureaucracy reduction exercise in Hungary, and I do not think that there is room for 90 days of administration. In addition, there are 30 days for everything when registering forest farmers, but 90 days for criticism. So you should think about this, Mr. Secretary, who put this in here now, or why, because that wasn't the case in the past. Once again, I had some insights about what could be improved on this bill. A detailed amendment package will be prepared, which will be submitted, if I remember correctly, by Thursday. And I would suggest, Mr Secretary, that the part that really improves the situation of forest farmers, if you could correct it further with these, including what I have listed, then at the end of this, something like that could come out of it, and, of course, take that two-thirds out of it, then I think it could even be a consensus law. Although the concerns that my fellow Member Sallai has expressed as a constitutional concern, I also doubt that they could get them all out of this, but they could improve a lot, and if at the end of the day it goes through with a government majority, at least we can say that something has happened in this case, because it is true that this bill is trying to remedy very, very old problems, which I think has not been delayed, we can see from daily practice that many things, especially in the case of private forest exploitation, need to be corrected, because they do not do very well without the help of forest farmers, which is something that needs to be recognised. So, Mr Secretary of State, these proposals will come, but I have given examples of what to expect. And we're gonna wait at the TAB for a single corrective claim, and I'm gonna meet him there, and I'm gonna see if there's an intention to change that. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-03-236	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Richard Hörcsik, Fidesz Group, will now take the floor. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-03-237	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As Parliamentary representatives of Abaúj and Zemplén, I represent many people living and farming in the mountains who are directly or indirectly involved in forest and forestry issues. I think it is very important for them, too, that the government has presented the proposal before us on forest, forest protection and forest management, XXXVII of 2009. amendment of law. [[18.30]] In my periphery, the persons and companies involved in forestry have already issued numerous criticisms to the then government already in 2009 after the adoption of the forest law that is now being amended. That is why I would like to thank Minister Fazekas, his colleagues, who have finally made the amendment before us and who have contributed to making it better during the opinion period. Ladies and gentlemen, As we can see, the Ministry of Agriculture's proposal contains five great goals, and try to reconcile them in some way, which, I understand, is not an easy task. In addition to promoting economic function, at the same time active nature conservation in sustainable farming, as well as preparing for the effects of climate change, I believe that there is room for a search for simpler administration and for novelties such as the display of spring water as a forest benefit. If we look back at the long-term work of legislation, there is a reason for the regulatory need in this area after the compromise, because it has become clear that forests are goods that we cannot leave without legal protection. The lack of planning, the lack of responsible forest management, has often had negative consequences. Therefore, I think our elites were right to create the civil forest law in 1879. In our accelerated world, the XXI. However, I believe there is a much harder task for the legislator in the century than it was 136 years ago. You can see the current situation, you know the modern needs, the challenges, but you can't be sure that you won't have to carry out a serious review in 2-3 years. However, this cannot explain the errors made in the creation of the 2009 Act. Although the error of the forest law of 96 has been partly corrected, for example, we have seen that administrative tasks have been streamlined, but I believe that the unnecessary restrictions on nature conservation have been faced by owners, farmers, which is clearly a step backwards. Because what is the role of the legislator when it regulates the protection of forests in 2017? Like man, there are many different kinds of wood and forest. It is easy to see that where forestry on a plantation is intended to provide industrial raw materials, rules that are relevant for nature conservation are difficult to interpret. Thus, this regulation must meet with a complex system of smart compromises, fine detail controls, i.e. a distinction between forests, according to their purpose, ownership and nature. However, it is important to highlight two other aspects, Mr Secretary of State, which make the proposal before us even more topical: (1) the existing civil law and (2) the sectoral rules do not really provide the owners with good solutions adapted to the characteristics of forest management and its ownership system. So here in our fragmented, private forests, if it is a common property, it may well be necessary to carry out joint tasks related to forestry, but there is no adequate legal framework for this. Another important issue that I have yet to address is the need for urgent action in the context of climate change. In addition to highlighting the importance of forests in the fight against climate change, they must also be protected against the effects of climate change. Therefore, an overview of the Ministry's summary of social consultation on this sensitive balance has been instructive, for example, opinions have been received that would provide for a general reduction in cutting mode. However, ladies and gentlemen, the problem with this is that these environmental objectives are often against the interests of forests. Climate protection aspects, for example, would strengthen the deployment of fast growing wood species, as opposed to slower growing and therefore more vulnerable species proposed by nature conservation lobbys. But I will go on, ladies and gentlemen, and I think it must be said that our country cannot do so for a very long time, so that it does not farm or exploit the forests. Ladies and gentlemen, In my constituency there is the Zemplén landscape protection area, which is of particular value, thanks to the natural values it can base itself on tourism in the region as, as we say, the possibility of breaking out. But we cannot, however, rule out forestry because it also creates jobs in my constituency and thus preserves communities in the forests of Abaúj and Zemplén. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me talk about the problems that continue to be a problem in Zemplén, Abaúj. This is the first place I have to say about restrictions. The bill is 8. In its section, the Evt. 10. The restrictions set out in Section 2 of this Article have been extended to all Natura 2000 forests. In addition to the less generous designation of Natura 2000 sites, I believe that conservation objectives can be achieved in Zemplén. The generation of such a management limitation obligation is, in particular, unjustified in the area of bird protection. Secondly, I would like to mention the possibility of further administrative simplification. People in Zemplén, who are involved in forestry, often feel that there is generally a desire to reduce administrative burdens at the statutory level, yet there is a provision in the law to be amended that can be considered unnecessary. Pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 995/2010, proof of the origin of the wood should be ensured and, as a consequence, the forest management operational sheet becomes redundant. The Evt. 70. Paragraph 3 of Section 3 should therefore be deleted. Unfortunately, the definition of logging itself is not accurate enough in our view. For example, it would be appropriate to set the minimum stem diameter in 10 centimeters, since bushing is not considered professionally to be logging. So bushing is not one of the operations subject to notification, but because of conceptual uncertainty, it would be necessary to clarify when we can talk about logging and when we can talk about bushing. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my pleasure at the fact that the problem of grazing in the forest, including in my constituency, can be solved by adopting the draft law. In a way, the old, traditional method opens up the possibility of a return. In my constituency, for example, the existence of Malakarét above the Hutas was almost necessary for traditional farming activities, but due to technical progress these activities were reduced. Today, such grasslands are valuable in themselves, and I believe that grazing in such areas is also a public interest objective. Although the amendment of the law does not look at grazing from this perspective, it may also be necessary, under the narrow, cautious framework imposed by the proposal, to naturally repress the various types of soil plants which are not in need of protection in the forests. In this regard, I would also like to point out that I believe that grazing as a work is of the same importance in regions with higher unemployment, such as Abaúj or Zemplén, as is the case with regard to forest management in the best interests of generations. [[18.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, I therefore believe that this proposal, together with the minor refinements that may arise during the detailed debate, should be supported. I would like to say that this proposal is an epochal, important proposal, which serves the common future of all of us. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-03-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with further speeches from our representatives. There will be second round speeches, since no one has applied for a two-minute speech so far. I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-239	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would just be very brief: I would like to encourage the Secretary of State to respond to the points as he goes along, because it will not be a good debate if he lectures us again, as he does. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: Failed, let's add.]] I would really like to get substantive answers to these points, and then perhaps we could go home with a substantive debate, for example, on whether there is a chance for private forest owners to compensate for conservation restrictions. Or, if not, why not take over models known in Western Europe where this works. But I would be very happy to have some answers to my other points. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-04-03-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with my fellow Member Hörcsik that the forest is a very important national treasure, a very important interest, and therefore, when he mentioned that this bill might be of age, I can also agree with that, but as an opposition Member, I must express our criticism that the forest law currently in force consists of 115 paragraphs and that the current amendment concerns more than 90 sections. I am not saying that there were so many wounds in the forest law currently in force, because I would absolutely not be telling the truth, but I think that if such a comprehensive amendment were to be made, a completely new law could be introduced, but it was only a segment of the legislative issue. In my speech as Chief Speaker, I mentioned that, in political terms, the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party will not be able to support the amendment provisions with a two-thirds share. I have also explained in quite detail what our concerns are, as in the case of public land privatisation, and I do not want to deal with this. I would just like to highlight one thing in the detailed debate - if there were any more - between the walls of this House. I think, and I am getting a lot of signals on this point, that, in my view, the distinction between the tree plantation and the forest, mentioned by Mr Sallai, could be a good direction. I would add that I think it would be extremely difficult to formulate and implement this in law, but I think it would be our duty together to try to solve such problems. I wouldn't want to bore you, especially not with the present representatives of the profession, because they know better than I do, but if you want to achieve a 10-15-year-old ripening and put an area in, we can only consider it a forest today. I think that if we could distinguish between the forest and the tree plantation, this could make it easier for farmers, it could be easier, so I just wanted to draw attention to this again. And if the president allows it, we can't have it as a opposition politician in 30 seconds...
u2017-04-03-242	You have time, Congressman, feel free.
u2017-04-03-243	... as opposition politicians, I cannot go beyond mentioning that in recent years we have seen several examples of the Court of Auditors and other investigations into public forestry. There is a great deal and a great deal of serious abuse and, rather, I would say, maladministration. I know this does not have to be done in the forest law, of course, but I think it would be good if we started a dialogue on this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-04-03-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the speaking time limit is 15-15 minutes per Member, so feel free to express your views, which I urge you to do. I give you the floor... [[Sallai R. Benedek stands up.]] Congressman, forgive me, but Congressman István Apáti has asked for the floor as a first-round speaker. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-04-03-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight a rather specific aspect of this subject, and that is what this proposal does not really deal with, but allow me to extend the scope of this debate, and these are the tax issues. [[Dr. Bitay Márton Örs: NGM...]] In connection with forestry activity, or the sale of standing forest land, I would like to draw your attention to the tax anomalies, contradictions, information hunger, poverty and totalisation of the land under the forest, or the various forest profits. Obviously, not as a single and not as a major aspect, but as a non-important aspect, the cursed money has a significant impact on forestry activity, whether it is the owner of a simple, small forest area or businesses that are professionally engaged in this. I have received a lot of questions from my own experience and public inquiries, specifically from the area of Mátészalka, Csenger, in the Satmar region recently, and I do not hide the fact that it is the experience of our own family economy and the related Calvary that inspired me to speak. When I started on this issue, I asked the NAV for resolutions, by the way. These resolutions are at my disposal. I e-mailed it to a forest inspector or two, because I've had incredibly instructive answers. On the part of the NAV, relatively clear and clear, but allow me, without the need for completeness, to outline the problems in particular. We started from the point that it is already a problem for a forest owner and take a simple basic case: 1/1. He is also the owner of the forest. Let's just say that some of the undivided common-owned areas have now been eliminated - not all of them, because there is still a problem because of the lack of undivided joint eliminations - and let's say that the forest owner would like to sell the forest area, whether it is a noble summer or perhaps a more valuable hardwood species. If this forest owner starts asking questions, the following answers will be given. If you sell it as an ancestor, I'm supposed to say by heart that I'm trying very hard to concentrate on it - you can apply or enforce a 40-percent presumed cost ratio, and the above part pays 40 per cent - it's horrific! If you sell as an income from independent activity, I recall that 15 per cent of you now have 14 per cent of eho - 29 per cent. For every HUF, however, 29 forints for uncle, that is one of the baroque exaggerations. Then, if the land under the forest is sold together, at best, if it is acquired within 5 years or 1-2 years, then there is 15 percent, then there is a strip drop, and after 5 years of acquisition it becomes tax-free, but only from 1 January 2017. Because until 31 December 2016, the tax rule was that if it sold residential property, the sale would be exempt after 5 years after the acquisition, all other cases, resorts, resorts, land, including the forest, would be exempt only if it was sold after 15 years. This has been unified, in this sense there is logic, and whether we are talking about real estate for residential or non-residential purposes, the purchase price will become tax-free even after 5 years of acquisition. But the situation is complicated when he cuts down the tree and sells the wood itself as a quasi-moveable sale or sells the right to cut wood to the purchaser. Now I don't want to bring here anomalies that are not entirely tax-related, that the simple forest owner, if he doesn't have professional help, or a forest or timber lawyer, to put it this way, can become the victim of the usual purchasing cuts, where there are very flexible wordings at the selection, whether in terms of size or in terms of health regulations, health defects or deficiencies, can damage the owner. So once we met an ancient tax, we met a tax on income from an independent activity, and then there's a moveable sale, i.e. the sale of timber, the right to cut wood, the sale with the land under it - ezskáus! Őskáus, and by the way, the NAV, I must say, I commend them, gave unusually correct and clear answers. When a reply was received from a tax advisor in the Chamber of Agriculture, there were serious contradictions there - let me not go into detail now, because it stretches out the timeframes, but I have everything in writing and I would be very happy to make it available to all interested parties. [[18.50]] In addition, as from 1 January 2017, a rule applies that, in the case of a lease for the forest, I recall that the tax exemption for the rent under certain conditions - the income and the income from the lease fee are exempt for a lease contract concluded for at least five years. With all due respect, I'd like to ask everyone very quickly, as they say in our area: let's start a thin pig ride between several wallets... [[Zoltán Grimlock: Skinny pig.]] Well, pig, pig, pig, they call him a pig, but we're not gonna fight about that, Congressman Haughty, that's not the point. [[Defiance.]] The point is that these tax rules should be harmonised. In my view, given the very specific specific nature of forestry activity, it would be either a tax exemption between certain well-defined boundaries and up to a certain limit, or the presumed cost ratio should be standardised in the course of sales by natural persons, whether from their primary producers or from independent activities, rather than 40 per cent, but should be possible to enforce a much higher presumed cost ratio. Why? Because, due to its nature, even in a summer planting, with 20-25 years of age, it is practically installed or replanted, whether it is first planted or replanted, even if it is surrounded, if it is only summer, it will be money once after 20-25 years. Now, let's not take the various cuts here, I'm counting on the slash to make math easier and make it easier to define. In the past 20-25 years, many accounts are not available, they cannot be enforced, tax rules rule these out for more than five years, so a much higher presumed cost ratio and the other part must be set at a relatively reduced rate; because it is not only about the story - and then we didn't even talk about an oak plantation, which is 70, 80, 100, 120 years, so to say this other extreme - the farmer sees money from it once, but he has to plant it, he has to take care of it, care of it, especially in the first 5-6-7 years. He bears the risk of each forest inspectorate's fine. He has a problem with thieves, because, as the Scriptures say, there are many different seedlings and reapers, and in many places the timber stock is cut off, and unfortunately, thieves are now going after not only hardwood flocks, but everything that can be burned. Because the cold is a great lord, and it is true that the poplar tree, let's say, is a lousy firewood, but it also gives some heat, it doesn't cool it, but it also heats the oven and the earthen stove. He's troublesome with thieves, he's filing reports with the police, and if he doesn't, then he may have problems with it, and he sees money once in his life, and he's still well taxed, or if he can't by chance check out the most legal form of taxation for him, he can't prepare for that, because in many cases there's no uniform, transparent regulation, and then we see that he's paying up to 30-40 percent of taxes, and then he's relocating the forest from his taxed income, maybe even closing it, and I don't want to detail it, also for millions of dollars per hectare. Therefore, in order to be able to address environmental aspects, public considerations, private ownership aspects and purchasing aspects in a uniform way and to resolve the issue from this point of view, the issue of taxation cannot be separated from this issue because of the above mentioned. And I'm saying this without any attacking intent, really only with the fullest goodwill, and if you like it, because of the unfortunate or unfortunate accident, I'm or I'm in the position that I've been able to discover or discover these tax anomalies, because they have a great impact on the effectiveness of the activity, and otherwise they can lay the foundations or destroy their desire for forestry, if this circle is not settled, and they are practically a forest owner, not to mention environmental aspects, everywhere, they just bump into walls, they run into contradictions, high tax burdens, high installation and care costs, because this is one, if you like it, a very nice, very noble activity, I think is an extremely special activity, especially lucky for those who can be a forest engineer, and can deal with forest, but at this moment I see that there is more pain, bitter, spending, tax burden, than the pleasure and advantage in this. Without this in the long term, but not in the short term, efficient and fair forest management is not possible. So I would advise that, over the next period, there should be a serious reflection and a number of inter-ministerial discussions on this matter, so that uniform, clear and clear regulation can be developed, with uniform taxation, not so scattered, and, if you will, with the possibility of partial application, because this is dangerous for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-03-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP Group.
u2017-04-03-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to be violent before, but earlier it was a group of people speaking, and that's why I thought I was coming, so I apologize.
u2017-04-03-248	It's okay.
u2017-04-03-249	First of all, I would like to respond to my fellow Member, Zsolt Legény, who has included a little bit of the potential for agriculture discrimination. Imagine that in the civilized part of the world, where remote sensing is not built downhill, as in Hungary, where there was a professional organization called FÖMI, dealing with it, and now I don't even know which metropolitan government office they were demoted to. Thus, the vast majority of the possibilities of remote sensing in aerial images are already an opportunity to distinguish, for example, forests and plantations on the basis of cultivation. So the technique is such that this could be done without any further intention, and there would be no more than a distinction between the disciplines of farming in the land offices. I would also like to reassure my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, because I have noticed quite a few times that, rather than avoiding the debate, Secretary of State, Mr Bitay Márton Örs, is particularly fond of the debate and that he does not participate in the debate, only very cowardly, unprepared secretary of state who do not want to respond to them and do not have any arguments. Since Mr Secretary of State is not like this, I think that he will be involved in the debate, because only cowards and unprepared people who cannot argue do not take advantage of the possibility of debate and leave it in the final words. So we trust that we will continue to do so. But I actually pressed a button when my fellow Member Richard Hörcsik spoke. Because he said two very nice words. One of them was conservation regulations for unnecessary purposes. I would very much like to ask him here in this debate what he was thinking. So that there are too many lynxes in the Zemplén Landscape Protection District, or the ruling owl has grown, or what is the unnecessary nature conservation requirement, which you specifically referred to there on the basis of your own experience? It is funny because the Parliament is here in a large circle discussing various levels of legislation, such as a law, a parliamentary resolution, and then accepting something that is in stark contrast with those adopted earlier, and here we are debating it with a serious picture, as if we hadn't said anything before. I will give you a concrete example: the adoption of the Fidesz-KDNP, the national environmental programme for 2015-2020, this is the 4th Environment Programme. NKP, draws attention to the fact that ecosystem services provide human society with the goods and conditions necessary for the survival of the economy, such as clean water, air, soil fertility, food, genetic resources. These principles appear - I quoted only because this part appears at various ministerial meetings, and one of these kind professional sites, where Minister Sándor Fazekas was also known to be present, is the Ministerial Conference on the Protection of European Forests in Helsinki, where this is stated in practically the adopted decision and in the H1 resolution:. The General Basic Guidelines for Sustainable Forestry in Europe, and Resolution 2:. These two European decisions describe as a directive what the NKP 4 states as Hungarian legislation. This is important because this is what he says, and it is an essential condition for preserving the biodiversity of European forests to take account of the primary purpose of biodiversity in the European Union's forest management. That's why I'm curious about this unnecessary nature conservation intervention you're referring to. They also deal with the forestry policy instruments that can ensure all these, and they are summarised in the publication of Péter Csóka-Somogyi Zoltán: European requirements and indicators for sustainable forestry. This is interesting because the current practice is a violation of some things, and it could endanger that. This is a problem in particular because it appears in very, very small endeavours. And just in order not to say, Mr Secretary, that we are giving an opinion here and we do not have to respond to it, I will ask specific questions. [[19.00]] The scope of the ban on cutting is narrow, instead of former forests for protection and public welfare, it would only be required for a part of it. Why? How will this serve the interests of climate protection, public welfare or biodiversity? In addition to the previous conversion mode, the aim is not specifically to achieve a continuous cover. After the administrative consultation, they even raised the size limit where end-use can take place, from half a hectare to one and a half hectares. Why is it good to give space to the end-use mode to this extent? Article 29 of the Act. Paragraph 3 of Section 3 specifically mentions this. It's an old bad, old Sopronian nerve, that the slash is good, because you don't have to think about it, you don't have to understand the forest, you have to cut it out. Why does it have to be raised? Sopron is able to train good professionals, only in forestry practice should this be shown. Indeed, the practice of forest management can be strengthened by everyday activity. The land surrounded by immovable property not owned by a hundred percent of the State, which is naturally not more than 3 hectares... - according to point (a) of the law, the removal of forests or land directly used for forestry activities from public property may take place in accordance with the Act on the National Land Fund. Once again, I respectfully ask how this will serve the interests of climate conservation, which is indicated in the justification, in the interests of meaningful forestry, biodiversity, maintenance of the public welfare function, because it does not appear to be. What, at the moment, will happen to hunting houses and other goods, which have been built with European Union funds, in the case of land belonging to forestry farms, in public money, in the case of areas that are also cultivated, i.e. infrastructure that may appear as an area that may be taken out? Can these be the means of free robbery called privatisation again? Because if the forest is no longer cultivated, it will be sold to the relevant operators. Obviously, this gives us some concern about what it is that will prevent this state wealth from being preserved, because until now, it is the ban on disposal that has caused us to see the guarantee that this will remain. Obviously, it is particularly wrong to think about what will happen to non-percent state-owned forests, since the transfer of this property could in principle endanger public wealth, as we did in the case of agricultural land. In your opinion, why is it not the aim of the state to pursue 100% ownership in these cases? [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] My fellow Member, Richard Hörcsik, also said, and that is why I wanted to respond to the fact that, if the state was serious about the potential of the forestry sector, and it had to be taken into account in the rural development aspects, we should not give the forest out of our hands, but rather keep it and increase it. A careful state, a good state, is increasing this forest wealth. If something is not in its possession 100%, it obtains it to be responsible for farming; unlike the current forest farms, God forbid, so there is no such thing. At the same time, the forest law is no guarantee to me of many things, which are amendments. Tell me, Mr. Secretary, to stick to the questions, what will strengthen the policy of preserving the forest's wealth. I suppose you're aware, in your own position, of, say, how many forests have disappeared illegally this winter. I know Fidesz-KDNP can't compete if someone else steals, but some of the forests are still being stolen. The question is which amendment of the forest law you consider to be the one dealing with this problem. Because it is always a question of how, in practice, the applicability of this will serve the goals that, let us say, appear as justification. The question of forest grazing - which I hope will not be exaggerated by animal keepers - was welcomed by my fellow Member Richard Hörcsik; I say that in some places, I do not know, along the Danube-Drava and in such places, where traditional animal farming methods with acne and such, with a landscape maintenance function earlier, I believe that there is a reason for it, but its general spread, I hope, is that this will not be done in order to preserve the forest renewal. However, while we were saying that there is such a problem in his specific constituency, there is only one social issue that really seems insignificant. They put in the forest law the right to collect and collect mushrooms for their own purposes. There's no twig collection anywhere. Hasn't Congressman Richard Hörcsik in his constituency come up so far? [[Dr. Bitay Márton Örs: What collection?]] So, Gally, we're talking about a waste-dry tree, which, from a nature conservation point of view, I don't like to collect when it's too large, because a significant part of the beetle-fauna exploits the wood rot as a breeding site, so I'm not saying that they should collect, but interestingly, in many ways, it seems that the law used some social aspects, and I was happy to see the possibility of collecting mushrooms in this regard, but for example, there's not a single word that I'm a little concerned about. And let me tell you one more thing. I know you're a secretary of state, so you'll understand quickly, because in particular, in the current procedure, you are creating forests that are still undivided, imagine. At the moment, if there is a natural forest anywhere in a ploughing area or grassland, an acacia appears and begins to push in, and there, we say, in an undivided joint division of land map numbers, it is mandatory to extract it from the area as an autonomous cultivation branch in the current procedure. There was an undivided common landmark number with 2,300 square meters of forest, and this should be taken out into a separate cultivation branch. Imagine that there the area is divided according to the original ownership structure. I can think of a 2,300 square meter forest area where a century's golden crown cannot express ownership rates, they appeared in a tiny fraction. And it's just a flawed procedure. It is the result of a foolish procedure that it is created, and to this day, therefore, in today's practice. I do not say that they are very diligent in this undivided joint survey, so that too much is not done in this, but despite this, where I have concrete experience of this, I am also a private forest farmer and private forest owner, that this is how forest and undivided forest are created, which will be extremely difficult to manage, because we can talk about hundreds of owners on virtually a few thousand square meters. In response to my fellow Member Richard Hörcsik, who inspired my second speech, it is very, very important that the management aspects are not weakened. I completely agree. So basically, a good, sustainable forest management is part of a natural landscape use. Good, wise forestry is needed by the country and essential. That this has not been the case in the past, or that in many cases this was not the question of forest managers, is a conflict that is now difficult for Fidesz because Fidesz did not create this problem, but from the outcome of the compensation system a lot of other social processes since the 1990s. But one thing is certain that the responsibility for what is going on and has been done in the public forests is that a significant part of forestry is designed to enable public forestry officials to work with private businesses, because it narrows down the space that Congressman Richard Hörcsik would prefer, namely, the possibility of decent rural employment. In settlements, whether in Bükk or in other mountains of the Northern Mountains, where, let us say, state forests surround entire settlements - forgive me, I always bring to Répáshuta the memory of a small village, Répáshuta, a place that is practically surrounded by state forests, the whole employment and the fate of the settlement depend on whether the state carries on a good forest management or not. The efforts of the past period have shown that the state cannot be a good farmer. For this reason, the legislative efforts are clearly understandable that some management aspects may be mitigated in this respect. But the solution would not be this, I think, but to increase public responsibility and engagement, with a responsible, good public forest farmer, a significantly greater social justice, which means that not five million public forest managers' salaries and 80 plus 110 000 farmers' salaries, but with a good rural development aspect, taking into account rural employment, the future lies in achieving this particular substantial forest management. As I have said, there are some positive elements in the legislation that we would like to support if it were in itself, but since most of them have the potential to jeopardise not only the biodiversity of our country, but also the objectives of these rural development aspects, which is why we will not support it, but I think that the constructive debate on these issues will still be useful in the near future. All I ask of the Secretary of State and the wallet is that, if possible, not the public forestry, but, let us say, all the municipalities concerned, the local authorities dealing with social issues, and the organisations dealing with the protection of nature, be involved in this, since the forest is a matter for all of us, not just for the public forestry and some forest managers. I ask you with respect. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-04-03-250	Thank you very much, Congressman. Good evening. We will continue our work with the speech of Mr Balázs Győrffy, representative of Fidesz. Here you go. [[19.10]]
u2017-04-03-251	Thank you, Mr. President. In a few thoughts, let me respond to the concerns raised by my fellow opposition Members. First, let me begin with the possibility of selling forests below three hectares. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's go back to its original formation. The large and large part of these areas were created in the program of the bad memory of the Earth for the benefit of life. In this case, we are not talking about the sale of the state forest, but we are talking about forests that do not exceed three hectares of space. My fellow Members, in addition to demagoguery, it cannot be understood that we are alarming the Hungarian countryside by the fact that the fidesz oligarchs will buy 2.9 hectares of land from the forest. Are you serious? Then not only professional but also other aspects of the potential for development, for example, in my fellow Member. Well, let's wrap this up now, because I can see that we're not gonna get to the bottom of this. I was very pleased at the subcommittee meeting about the professional comments that were made there, and I was very optimistic at the time, and I thought that this would be a law that we could adopt by consensus, and Jobbik's expert, for example, was very enthusiastic about this legislation; I don't know if Veszprém, Old Town, had already taken a different decision on the aid. I also understand that the MSZP can't go into a situation where it pulls itself against the Democratic Coalition to smite the MSZP with the ruling parties, and, of course, from now on, we are already on a left-wing indoor debate. I'm very sorry that the profession is a victim of such a thing, but that's what it is. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll tell you something new: nature conservation existed even when there were no conservationists. I'll give you an example. In 1921 Hungary's forest frying rate was 11.8 percent, today it went up to 21 percent. So imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that the Hungarian forestry community, which Mr Sallai had just succeeded in giving a slightly de-honesting rating here, was able to almost double Hungary's forest fry in a hundred years. And besides the importance of nature conservation, how counterproductive nature conservationists can be, and I'm sorry if there might be some emotional overweight in this, it's absurd and I don't think it's normal for them to be able to assign noblenecks to Natura 2000 territory. Now, whoever did this was a lot of things, just not a conservationist, but rather a pretty stupid person. And, ladies and gentlemen, do you know what this has become? The fact that there are currently 200,000 hectares of forest in Hungary that we do not use. You know why? Because there are such abnormal regulations, where appropriate due to excessive nature conservation regulations, that we hinder the viability of the Hungarian countryside. For 200,000 hectares of forest, let's figure out what the VAT content would be, for example, which is paid into the budget and what could be done with it. This is quite simply a sin, which comes from it, not only in an economic sense, but also from other aspects. If we want to increase forest frying further and the forest strategy sets out its expectations in this regard, then, ladies and gentlemen, we can agree that we can basically expect private owners to increase their forest area. This will be done in one case, as it is farmers: if it is worth it. If we beat them to death with all sorts of abnormal regulations, not on the altar of nature conservation, but on the altar of the various principles of conservationists, it is also, I think, a sin. Now, that's an economic sin, and we just can't help it. And to say, my fellow Members - and I turn to Sallai R. Benedek - a completely absurd nonsense: the black stork nests on the corner of the forest, from then on in a 300-metre radius in the forest nothing can be done; I think it is not even possible to step on a twig, but quite calmly, if there is a plower next to it, anything can be done with any field equipment, it does not interfere with the black stork, obviously it is only the sound effect in the forest that drives it away. And they write down stupidities, conservationists, and this, I have a colleague who can prove on paper, write down that he's moved away from the black stork without the intention of returning. Is he a normal person who describes the black stork moving away without the intention of returning? This is simply absurd and not normal, which is why I think that there is a great need for this legislative amendment, because there are great and great opportunities to exploit the potential of the Hungarian countryside, but not by politicising a basically professional issue. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-252	Thank you very much. Now, please, here's the thing. Two-minute comments. I suggest you talk about the law, not each other. [[Defiance.]] So first I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény, MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-253	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to enter into a political debate with my fellow Member Győrffy, because I really believe that many parts of the bill before us are in order. But, Congressman, forgive us, opposition representatives, that there are times when the opposition representative cries wolf, and how interesting it is, the wolf appears. With regard to public land privatisation, you have said many times that you do not, and certainly not the state land, in any form, and then suddenly, see a miracle, one day for some reason, Fidesz changed his attitude towards this, and we have found that you have simply sold hundreds of thousands of hectares of Hungarian land to your friends. Therefore, if our concern is that we fear that, let's just say that after seven years of fidesz amok running, we no longer believe in the presentation, the part of us that is otherwise in order, that if this were the legal goal and this were to be achieved, this could be supported by the faction. But because we are afraid of you, and we are afraid of what kind of abuse this will give you, and I think it is absolutely right that Fidesz will be able to commit these abuses afterwards, I would like to mention once again, as I have said, that we cannot support the two-thirds part. No, because, yes, Congressman, we have suspicion that with 2.6 hectares, I don't know, 50 hectares could somehow be sold on the grounds of fidesz ingenuity. So we have a problem with that and that's what we have a problem with. Thank you.
u2017-04-03-254	Thank you very much. We return to ordinary speaking Members: Mr Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik is next. Here.
u2017-04-03-255	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again, because of Balázs Győrffy, I have to ask for the floor. Under three acres. I have said that, in the case of a fair government, not with a history that we have experienced in the field privatisation of state land, it might even be acceptable, especially in the context of the wording of which it was presented. But I had the same argument with the Secretary of State today, and I don't want to tell the story again, by circumventing the legislation, the Hungarian state has arranged to get to Monsanto - through a man who has made a great deal of money - nine hectares of land taken out, of course, as an industrial area. Why can't you imagine that with the same trick, if we accept this two-thirds part, they'll start playing forest areas like this? I understand that, in all likelihood, hundreds of thousands of acres will not be played out in this way, but I would fear for the three, nine, or any number of hectares that would be unwarranted in this way, especially if, say, Monsanto. I said the professional part that there are, of course, forward-looking parts, and our delegated expert said so at the subcommittee meeting. I don't have a problem with that. I have listed those where we are going to submit amendments and to which we are asking for the support, or at least now an explanation of why it cannot be modified in such a way as to obtain a satisfactory response. That is why we make it dependent on whether we support the rest. The Natura 2000 area and the related problems are fully agreed. It has been said many times, during the socialist governments, this has been very badly screwed up. I also know that it would be very difficult to change that now. Nevertheless, it might be worth a run in Brussels. And indeed, it is very important what my fellow Member Győrffy said that the rate of forest frying will increase if it is worth it for private forest owners. Well, then I couldn't think of anything better, a more striking answer to what I've suggested about why compensation for nature conservation restrictions wouldn't be included in the legislation. This would be very necessary, since, as I have already said, this will help the common good, and the preservation of natural values would also help private forest owners, if this were to happen. This would be the perfect way to encourage them to install, since from now on it would be even more worthwhile for them. So we have a problem with that, and we do not want to drown in demagoguery here when we do not support privatisation below 3 hectares. With such a history and such scams, which he was defending or trying to protect at the beginning of the afternoon, we really should not be surprised that we are not going to give our names to this. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-03-256	Good afternoon. I had to say this because as I gave the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, I said good-bye to Mr. notary, and I tried to do this double act at the same time, apparently with success. Congressman, please. [[19.20]]
u2017-04-03-257	Goodbye to the notary, and we wish you a safe journey home. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Balázs. You're talking nonsense. I'll tell you why. That's clear, you'll understand; or you'll understand, Congressman. Let's start with the black stork and no intention of returning. During the breeding season, when the bird roams and leaves the nest, and the eggs cool off, and that egg does not become a chick, it is called the return without the intention of the year's growth. It's a general term for nature conservation. I think even forestry professionals have heard about this. So if there's any farming going on or interference, that's what they call it. That doesn't mean he won't be back next year or two years from now, it means the eggs are in the nest and he left it. Let me get this straight: this is not a stupidity, it is not a stupidity; it is a professional term when practically the breeding protected by the Nature Conservation Act has been destroyed. The other one. There's that black stork nest around the corner I mentioned. The weird thing is, when you have to spend 12,000 billion, it's good for the government. But when marking species have to be protected because they are required by the EU, they should not. The EU does two things: it gives money and raises expectations. The expectation is to protect the marking species. Please, if we accept the money, then the other condition must be met. As my fellow Member Balázs Győrffy, as chamber president, he is largely aware of the support system of the European Fund for Agriculture and Rural Development, with the rural development programme. These come from the Union and therefore the Union is imposing conditions. The terms should be met, or you don't have to take the money. There is no need to take over area payments, no need to take over sectoral subsidies. That's the price. The price is that we have marked a multitude of marker species for the European Union, thereby enriching the European Community. We'll have to pay the price for that. This money does not fall from the sky, and we do not get it because Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is so loved in Brussels. Please, these are the conditions that the Union has set out, and this must be done. One very important thing I would like to say to my fellow Member, Balázs Győrffy. I quote from the national strategy for the conservation of biodiversity adopted by the Fidesz administration by a fidesz majority for the period 2015-2020, only to be aware of the figures. We discussed the forest festivities of Hungary after Trianon and today's forest festivities. In Hungary, the forest area is 2 million 51,000 hectares, corresponding to 20.7 percent of the country's area. The forest law defines six categories of the natural nature of domestic forests. There are six categories. Based on the classification, 53 percent of forests belong to the first three categories that are more favourable for the conservation of biodiversity - natural forests, natural forests and derived forests. You know what's interesting, Congressman? This is exactly what was already recorded as a forest in Hungary after Trianon. Elementary school, sixth grade: what is the forest? It's a biological concept that hosts a diverse community of life. He's got shrub level, bush, lower canopy level, upper canopy level, he's got a community of life. A plantation with the same genetic material is not a forest in a biological sense. In the current legal sense, you call it a forest. That's the difference. You have not increased the amount of forests in recent years, but have increased the amount of wood plantations. That's the problem, and that's the problem. Nearly a quarter of the forest area is protected by nature conservation, which means that about 453,000 hectares of state forest are protected by nature conservation. All I said was that, in the case of the management of public forests, the conservation criteria must be taken into account primarily for these 453,000 hectares. And in this are the floodplain forests, starting from the Mid-Tisza Landscape Protection District, on a pile of sections that are now being degraded. The Deputy Ombudsman drew attention to the fact that this is something that they could not legally do. My fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, responded to the problem with this property under three hectares of annuity. Excuse me, but just today, Secretary of State, Mr Bitay, here in Parliament, explained that there is a large area of 86 hectares, and if there are any requests, then we will divide it into three hectares. This means that there is no guarantee of any kind, only the guarantee that the State will not sell in the forest sector as far as possible. It's the only guarantee. Because it's not codifying that if Secretary of State Bitay finds a friend of the Monsanto, he's not gonna take it under three acres to sell it. Now he looks like he wouldn't do that, but I can't believe it. [[Defiance on the opposition side.]] Who believes there's something out there that's not controlled by theft? I'm sorry, we've been sitting here under the Fidesz-KDNP for seven years - who believes that something isn't the end of someone's hands? So basically, as legislators, I would like to see the security of creating as few opportunities as possible in the legislation, and obviously these are the aspects of our position. We would not, by any chance, like to see conditions that can be abused, because the experience is that if they have such conditions, they will abuse it. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-04-03-258	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is my duty to ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to reflect now. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: Yes.]] There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-04-03-259	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, It was an interesting debate, thank you very much for letting me listen to you again. Some things have been recorded to myself, which may be worth speaking out of my mouth as a representative of the national government. The first and most important thing is that Hungarian forestists do not have to fear the Hungarian forest. The attitude that many of you have shown is basically not a hurtful intention, but rather an indiscretion. The quality and quantity of the Hungarian forest stock, the beauty of our domestic nature, were largely passed on by the foresters. I would like to join Mr Balázs Győrffy in so far as his traditions are concerned, that this profession goes back hundreds of years, the educational background of this profession also goes back centuries; the past when there were no water professionals; the past when there were no conservationists; the past when mining professionals were not so separated from the forest; the past when the foundation of this profession was built entirely on the natural environment, and all the elements that we can enjoy and see here today were once laid down by the forestry community. So I wouldn't be afraid, so there's no need to fear the forest. I would also like to mention - Károly Kaán has appeared several times in connection with the anniversary - that our first forest law was actually a nature conservation law that came out of the feathers of a forest engineer. The other thing I would like to reassure you about is that foresters are nature conservationists, absolute conservationists, nature conservationists to the core, and even from where I sit, they sometimes seem dark green. They have an absolute nature-protection attitude to all questions. Convince them that the tree is not important, or that we can leave it bravely, rather, let it be stolen, or whoever can produce wood from the forest, can not. And I assure you that not only is the moral and professional interest of the private forest farmer, but also the financial interest of the farmer, he would do anything to keep the tree from disappearing from his territory. We were talking about the growing forest stock. Mr Sallai raised what Mr Balázs Győrffy said in response to what was actually the composition of this forest stock, this increase. I would like to reassure you that international processes, general forest management processes, and the use of wood not only affect the diversity of forests in Hungary, but also in all parts of Europe. What I'm trying to say is that if you're meeting a nobility plantation, you might be able to get 200 to 300 euros in an intensive production form for a cubic metre, while you can get the same amount for an oak plantation exactly zero years later, 120 years later. So let us not be surprised that the composition of the forest stock is changing. The proportion of natural forests has also increased in Hungary, it is very important to establish this, and let us not go without saying anything. On the other hand, I think that from the perspective of climate protection, from the point of view of wood use, it is not to the detriment of anyone that, of course, plantation-type forestry has increased. These are all basics. [[19.30]] In public welfare functions, of course, it is fashionable to scold state forestry, especially the CEOs, and I would like to say that the amounts you say are not in a thank-you situation. I think of it as a mistake in terms of salaries, with a significantly lower salary, which, for my part, I am still short of, but this is a parentheses question. But what I would like to reflect on is that more than HUF 16 billion has been spent since 2010, so in the last six years, because we do not see this year's investments as a public welfare function. That's the amount... [[Sallai R. Benedict: EU funds.]] Excuse me, I would like to add that this amount, which they have, by the way, covered, is still coming from EU funds. So if I look at the total value, it is tens of billions of HUF that we have spent on public welfare. But just think about it, I'll make it very simple. Say, if you go to the Somogy forest farm and look at the observatory that functions as a welfare facility, it alone cost HUF 1.5 billion, that's one investment. But if I look at the small railway development applications at Ipoly Forest, it alone means a billion forints. What I'm just telling you is that the Ipoly Forest itself contributed 100 million forints and added 250 million to the EU resource by the Ministry of Agriculture. So I just wanted to let you know that there are very serious public welfare investments - I can also say what is seen through my glasses - and the problem is where we can get to, and make good publicity for such a welfare function. Lookout points grow like mushrooms in Hungary, and then I only talked about the most spectacular ones. [[Zoltán Haughty: But of what? At what cost?]] Not about the forest schools, not about the various other welfare functions, not about the residential firewood, not about the social firewood, all of which are still coming. Or if I look at the private forest farmers, for whom no one else can hold a gun to their heads, they don't want to, yet they make welfare improvements worth billions of forints. So if I take as a basis that 200 000 hectares have been planted in the last ten years, then it shows again that we may not be talking about the very evil people with motor saws here, but here they want to build for the future, of course, as a private forest farmer primarily for the future of their own and of their family, but it is in the interests of all of us. Carbon dioxide does not choose to tie it down in a private forest farm in the wood or state, if there is wood, it does not tie it down, so I wanted to mention these as a positive example to you. Regarding the debate: Mr Zoltán Magyar mentioned that this is an old topic, a recurring issue about why I am speaking at the end. It has been a social debate for a year and a half, a committee meeting, a former subcommittee meeting, and I don't want to abuse it, you obviously have a lot of work to do, but you didn't come to the subcommittee meeting, you didn't come to the working group meeting. So in a general debate in the parliamentary force, I think it is very useful to discuss the detailed rules, but the detailed rules that we have already discussed at a committee meeting, the social debate and the administrative consultation, unnecessary repetition, the publicity of Parliament also covers the Commission's work. And one more general remark is that nature conservation versus pro. However, let us state that this law is about forest management and the protection of the forest - we would very much like to talk about or talk about the nature conservation law now - but I would like to emphasise that the vast majority of those restrictions that have been mentioned in relation to conflict are in the nature conservation law, not in the forest law. By the way, this is not a workshop, obviously it is well-known that I proposed to negotiate in one piece with the Wildlife, Forest Protection and Nature Conservation Act, because then perhaps it could be handled even better. But I would like to stress that those for whom you have repeatedly mentioned nature conservation aspects have been rigidly excluded from any collapsing in this regard, because there it would have been revealed what is a tool of realistic, reasonable, effective nature conservation and asked for the example of Balázs Győrffy in relation to the black stork. However, I think it is important to mention that, in that regard, and speaking of which, a court judgment has been issued in this case, which has adopted restrictions going back several years. Let's not talk side by side. It was not a case that was based on a one-off case, where a short period of limitation was imposed and fined, but was a long period of time. But I ask you, if next to the Gemenc MÁV loader, three meters from the MÁV loader, there's been a black stork nest for years, where, by the way, from the crane wagon to the engine train, I'm not going to tell you any more about the sound effects, it's okay with the black stork, so why does it bother the black stork that they're doing forestry work in the forest anyway? But another question: if you don't mind in Germany, because in Germany, what you've been asked to do, the positive incentive is not said to forbid you to go there, but then, I'm sorry, we'll only admit that there are unrealistic conservation restrictions, which otherwise didn't fulfill the hope they had. The point, my fellow Members, is that this classic approach to lowering the barrier has not been a problem, but that is not how XXI works here. In the first century, I would have to take a much more recent approach to this matter, and I say that if nature conservation aspects can be resolved in Germany in this type of restriction, I dare to say that I think they will be resolved sooner or later. I do not want to put my speech on long notice, but I would like to reflect on some of the things that Members have said in their speeches, following the generalities. Congressman Sallai spoke about regulation governance. Obviously, this is a different subject, I say that I kind of reject this thing, that it is not a bad deed, but there is a general idea that we try to adapt more things to life. And life is changing very quickly, and Parliament can only make laws, so what we can do is deal with at regulation level, which is not possible, of course, at the statutory level or at the basic level, but there is no bad intentions in this. I was very pleased to hear you quote Professor Bándi here about the listed ones or your comments. I would have liked for the Parliament to vote with greater support for his appointment as Deputy Ombudsman. Since it was a secret vote, we don't know if I'm saying this unnecessarily to you, because by the way, you put "x" or "no" next to it, but I would have preferred it if the Parliament had accepted it unanimously. [[Sallai R. Benedict: It was almost unanimous.]] 'Cause it's a serious authority. On the other hand, I would like to clarify your comments on the waveground. At the wavefield, at the floodfield forest, it only arises in the main river basin or in the main flow band, or there is less restriction than in the other areas, and I would like to add here, a priority is what the forest is about, because we think it's about man, nature, the forest. What's the waveland forest about? Water management, flood protection. So you have to be aware that, unfortunately, the black stork nest, I don't know what, everything is secondary, because it's about whether Budapest is flooded or not, or whether Szeged is flooded or not. There are these floodplain forests, and let's not get on the horse because there were no forests here, or there weren't such forests, we planted them because of water management, and now we're amazed that otherwise they're not natural forests, but planted forest areas. The comments were also asked by nature conservation associations. First of all, national parks were naturally involved in the law, and could not have done anything else, since national parks belong to the Ministry of Agriculture, and all administrative consultations begin in-house. If national parks do not allow it, then there is no administrative consultation and there is no law. Apart from three comments, the WWF Hungary and the Avian Association supported the law when presenting it, I do not know about it, and I have not received a letter from them since then that they have any other comments. I'd be happy to give you information about your three comments. By the way, how the boots got on the table, what social organisations were consulted, on the other hand, dear Member, what kind of social organisation was agreed with the government, because that is what this is all about. The National Forestry Association, the Forestry Association that existed 150 years ago, established the basis for this law, not in a year-and-a-half social debate, but since 2009, when the law was adopted, since then, with continuous consultations. So here is the policy, so to speak, in addition to a social initiative, it continued to work on the basic concept laid down by the National Forestry Association, which I would like to thank you for. In connection with tree plantations, it has also been mentioned several times that the law does not make a distinction, the law does not make a good difference. First of all, I would like to clarify here: but the law makes a distinction, the law makes a very strong distinction, much more impressive than it has ever done before. [[19.40]] What can be pointed out, however, is that, in relation to plantations, it should be stated that it is essentially for economic purposes. So it is the same as, by the way, flood management, or river management, where the primary aspect is not a conservation aspect. In plantation forests, the main aspect is how to make more money for the forest farmer, how to make more money out of it, how to make more money, how to make more profit. What has also been mentioned a few times, and I would also like to respond to this, is the amount of forest areas under 3 hectares. Congressman Sallai has also set a bad example for today's interpellation. It is problematic, and I would rather say it to him or to the Members of the MSZP, because Congressman Zoltán Magyar rightly said that he thinks it is okay professionally, that he does not see any error in the described legislation, in the less than 3 hectares, but does not believe that this will happen. I can't convince you that, so to speak. How can I say, thank you for supporting the law professionally, not politically. That's understandable: opposition government. But it's very important for people under 3 hectares that you can't share a large forest there. Even though I share the large forest, it is in the law that what is in the immediate vicinity of other public forest areas cannot be sold or sold under 3 hectares. I would like to make it clear to you that if you want to argue in this political debate, you should make better arguments, because this is very weak for the time being. Or if I look at it, there are 1072 sub-acres of state land that is less than 3 hectares and separate forest. There's no more, there's 1072. Since it cannot be established because of the rules mentioned above, we are talking about this 1072, and this fantastic latifundium tempo is otherwise 0.72 hectares. But I understand, there's a campaign, there's a political debate, they don't support it, but here's the rusty shiv, for the record, I'm telling you, whoever's gonna govern the next period, it's gonna turn up, because those forest lanes that are between two ploughers, or they're gonna collapse, or someone's gonna start farming on it. If the peasant starts to farm on it, he does it illegally because he doesn't own the forest. And the state forest economy won't, it's financially impossible for it to walk down here from the forest block, which is 50 kilometers away, and to cultivate the four acacias to see what happens to it. This is something that no one should be so afraid of, and I wanted to emphasise this in particular. The firewood was also mentioned on behalf of MEP Zoltán Magyar. Let's change things here, too. Every year there are 13 million cubic meters of river growth in the Hungarian forests. Of these, 11 million could be produced, and 7 million will be produced. It is not about rules or forest plantings, nature conservation and other restrictions, but it is necessary to see how there is a 4 million cubic meters that we could legally produce. That's what I'm looking for, by the way. Other comments about firewood, muddy soil... I just smiled. No offense, but we're just past the winter that he was happy-happy producing the forest, and he even asked for permission in advance, because after many years, it was the first time that there was a proper frost, and the right forwarder, Harvester machines were able to get into the area and deliver the tree. We've produced a lot of firewood. All the firewood is gone. They bought everything out of every fire station. I hope that there will be greater opportunities in the coming years and that we can produce more firewood, but this will not be a public forest fund, but a basically private forest fund, and the question of the state forestry fund will be - I will return to realistic and reasonable nature conservation - how we can alleviate those restrictions. Here is another example, when there was a windfall in the North Forest and hundreds of thousands of cubic metres of forest lay on the ground, then what happened was that unfortunately the economic profit was prohibited, because otherwise it was during a limitation period, during a growing period. I think it's a realistic thing not to be able to produce forest during a growing season. But if there is a special event and you have to decide whether man, nature, climate change is the primary or some kind of idiotic rule, then I say we put man first, and in such a case we do produce the tree, because some of it will be high-quality firewood, and another part of it will bring serious economic benefits to everyone. I would also like to refer to state forestry for just one thought, because it has been said several times, as they have said, that we have heard dehonesting comments about it and about rural jobs. I'd refer to Répashuta here. Don't be fooled by the situation, Répáshutan people can't go out into the woods to collect wood because nature conservation rules won't allow it. The forester would allow them to do so, he has no problem with it, of course, with the announcement, and the other, but they could go freely, so far the conservation rules do not allow it. Why don't state forestry employ local people? It's a mistake. Somogy Forest Farm is the largest employer in Somogy County. State forestry employs 6,000 employees and 6 000 public workers. By the way, again, I'm setting the example of the Somogy forest farm, because unfortunately, either it's a very isolated area, and it can be analyzed well. There the vast majority of subcontractors are Somogyi companies, who also employ Somogyi people. You can think about whether to hire more people. If you put pressure on forestry farms in the parliamentary and, by the way, political debate on why they do not generate a higher profit in proportion to their turnover, then this sentence cannot be accompanied by the fact that as many people as possible are employed, because the two are hitting each other. Either I go one way or I go the other way, I can't do both at the same time. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Overall, I would like to thank you for the attitude I have seen in the debate and in the background of the debate. I would like to thank everyone involved in the creation of the law for their help, and I would also like to thank you for the fact that I have felt in your words that we are not going to be able to achieve absolute unity here, as the front of the campaign, but if this were not the time, you may not see this as a professional problem. Rest assured, I thank Mr President for his patience and the opportunity to speak. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-03-260	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for his professional opinion and for the final sentence of the round, even baroque, Parliament. I have more prosely to say that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President István Jakab wishes to address the 2012 CXXVI on the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development. T/14660. In today's general debate on bill No. In the event of opposition by the representatives of the Vice-President, he shall be allowed to hold the meeting at a further stage of the debate or during the decision only if the Parliament agrees. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that Vice-President István Jakab can continue to lead the meeting when negotiating and deciding on the proposal. I'm asking you to vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. Dear Parliament, The 2012 CXXVI on the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission submitted by MEPs István Jakab and Balázs Győrffy, Fidesz, T/14660. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Balázs Győrffy, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-261	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The proposals submitted could basically be grouped into three parts. On the one hand, the NAK has an increasingly up-to-date membership register thanks to its IT development, which makes it necessary to fine-tune the system and on the other hand it is necessary to draw up a proposal for a solution to the still irregular legal situation in relation to the firm's client status and legal capacity, and on the other hand it is necessary to amend the legislation in order to expand the chamber's services. A little more: In order to update the register of chamber members, it receives data from other data controllers under the Chamber Act. Experience has shown that this system of registration has a clear impact on the whitening of the economy. The experience of the past period and the change in the legislative environment have required a number of changes. [[19.50]] These include, for example, the possibility of withdrawal of the pre-production certificate by the authority, which should therefore be included in the grounds for termination of membership. Furthermore, the data of the head office, establishment or branch of the self-employed chamber member is much more relevant than the address of his home, which is why the law is supplemented by this data base. In addition, the contact details of the legal representative of the entity and of the person authorised to contact them are recorded in order to communicate quickly with the entity. The second main point concerns the performance of local ground management tasks. The Chamber has already dealt with more than 160,000 cases in its task as a land committee within the legal time limit set for it. The average rejection rate is around 2 percent of cases. In accordance with the provisions of the Ab Decision, those concerned may appeal to the local government concerned. At present, a number of lawsuits or requests for review are pending where the panel of representatives, or the person acting on its behalf, such as the mayor or the committee of the local government, has changed the Chamber's position so that the Chamber disagreed. Of the ongoing lawsuits, the Curia recently took the view in relation to a request for review that the Chamber, although the Government decree states that it has a client status, does not include the so-called right to seek or bring an action. One of the key elements of land traffic regulation is the ground management procedure, which is intended to ensure that the land policy priorities set out in the Act are also applied in individual cases, while the possibility of redress is also ensured. Since the judicial practice separates the firm's client status and the right to seek, i.e. to bring an action, one of the most important provisions of the proposal is to settle the Chamber's customer status and its right to seek at the level of the law in order to ensure that the original legislative intentions are clearly enforced. The third large group of amendments will provide the opportunity to carry out more and more service activities for the members of the Chamber. In order to ensure the effective performance of the Chamber's service tasks, the amendment makes it clear that the Chamber is entitled to issue the Chamber Certificate to its members. The amendment provides for the possibility of using certain chamber services in the possession of a chamber card, thereby ensuring that only the members of the Chamber can benefit from the services provided by the Chamber at a reduced rate or free of charge. The proposal provides for the possibility for anyone to verify that there is actually a chamber membership in respect of a chamber card. This will reduce the risk that the former member of the Chamber or member excluded from the use of services may abuse the use of the card. The rest of the proposal sets out the technical provisions necessary for carrying out the tasks of the Committee of the Land and for the operation of the Chamber. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-04-03-262	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: At the end, if possible. Thank you, Mr. President.]] All right, then you'll get an opportunity at the end. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I will ask if someone from the Fidesz Group wishes to speak as a lead speaker. [[István Jakab reporting.]] As indicated earlier, Vice President James as a representative. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2017-04-03-263	My card said it wasn't working. [[Intercoms: That's good.]] I do now. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, President Balázs Győrffy, my fellow Member, has analysed in detail the need to amend the law. Allow me very briefly to add a few points to what he has said. If we look at the Chamber's work and performance so far, then in order to be able to provide full service to all players in the sector at a later stage, we had to make these few amendments. In order to make use of the tools that are already available today, these amendments had to be implemented. In order to serve nearly 400 thousand chamber members, these changes are necessary, since the IT system that is now available and can be used directly to help the Chamber's membership is a very significant achievement for us. Moreover, in connection with the operation of the Land Committees, the legal impossibility of the Chamber has emerged, as its ability to assert interest in the interests of membership has significantly weakened. That is why it was necessary to make it clear that the capacity to sue, the ability to sue, should be clear to the Chamber. Perhaps the only organisation that can represent its membership in more than 2,200 settlements by means of the Territorial Agricultural Committees. At the same time, it is also necessary to see that it is not the members of the regional agricultural committees who are involved in the sale of land, but in the interest of the chamber's county organisation, but in any case of the local chamber members. It also came up at the committee meeting as to why it was urgent. Because, dear fellow Members, of the 160,000 decisions, that 2 percent is a significant number. In addition, there are a lot of lawsuits in progress that should be closed, and that should be completed in substance. So, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the proposal that my fellow Member and I have initiated. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-03-264	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Obviously, everyone would be surprised to hear me say that we are in favour of this amendment because we did not support the creation of this Chamber. So any correction of that is obviously not imaginable with our contribution. I say this because we have also said in the debate of the original law that the will of a narrow circle prevails with a wide circle paying the price. I think that we would do good if we continued our activities in the same way as the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, by making compulsory registration, but not compulsory membership. The problems caused by automation should also be addressed, including this classification based on the TEÁOR number, there is a huge debate in this, and I believe that, for example, this amendment of the law does not remedy this. There's an attempt, but I don't think it's right. In fact, as far as we're concerned, it's not even clear that it's a mandatory membership. So there's no such wording. We wanted to take this out with an amendment, but we could not find such a wording as being a mandatory member. You can get in there in any way, or you should, in principle, but it is not said, for example, in this bill, nor is it compulsory membership. My fellow Member James indicated that the IT system... I do not want to go into the dissecting of the website. It's pretty much what the press agencies have done, if I remember correctly, the last time a week ago, a magazine show about how this 400 million-dollar IT system works. There is much more to be done with, however, as the producers have said, not us. On the other hand, Congressman Pista, you said - I'm sorry, but I think that at this late hour, it is possible - that the Chamber has always decided, for example, on land matters, for the sake of chamber members. Now, when it comes to choosing between two chamber members, which one did you choose for? 'Cause usually land can't be bought by a man who's not a barman if we take the rules seriously. There's a lot of hogs in the system who shouldn't have actually sold land or given it away. I refer to this large number of fast-track gold-gold farmers, which is a separate category in Hungary today, and we see what the consequences are. He brought dynamically rising rents, at the expense of the chamber members. Because this circle, and I will talk about it several times, not tonight, but obviously in several genres, is only interested in what I think the Chamber should definitely act against in order to have higher rents in Hungary. But let's just say I'm not surprised, because once here, the Secretary of State of the FM said that rents over 100,000 might be possible. And I think that this is a freak if people ask for one and a half to two times the EU's support as rent. By the way, those who have not cut a hoof in their lives on the ground, but have obtained either public or private land, and now taking advantage of the amendments that the chamber president or the president of Magos has tabled that they should be able to try to raise the prizes freely. Now, the consequence of this, and this should be strongly opposed by a public body, is that, for example, after the land leased to its own company, there is a level of tax evasion that we watch and stand to see and stand on how the players are exempt from tax due to these opportunities, without any taxes. [[20.00]] The other, very, very many points have been raised recently as to what corrections would be needed in the laws to take seriously, for example, sales below the purchase price, payment deadlines. I do not see the movement in which the public body, which is essentially supposed to represent the interests of the 400 thousand members, takes such decisive action. We do not really know that in the debates where you really should be confronted with one of the leaders, such as Secretary of State Miklós Kis, when he says at a meeting - where I am glad that you mentioned my name, I am very happy to have such debates on statutes and other matters - that everyone except 5,000 farmers has received the support. There's only one reason why a secretary of state would say that. That's an orbital lie! Five thousand farmers didn't get a penny, the remaining 140,000 didn't get a penny. So we should apply the same system, Mr President, as you applied in 2005. In February, the tractors were already here before Parliament when it was not as bad as it is now. I would like to point out that there will be a crowd of company failures if they do not receive the aid within a closed deadline, let us say, by the end of April. Because that's not what banks are built for. Banks are equipped to make a large proportion of EU payments, at least 90 percent by the end of March. Now there's been an unfortunate reorganization that no one ever protested, at least no one who had the word in it wouldn't have done the Prime Minister's office to beat up the working paying agency. What's wrong, I never said there wasn't - but there's nothing worse than it doesn't work! And on top of that, exactly one chamber leader, who otherwise has a conflicting position, I wonder what answer I will get to my written question, is lying to his own farmers. Because from small farmers to big companies, this is a problem, and I didn't hear anyone raise their word on it. There may be informal conversations, and it turns out that the deficiencies posted in December - Balázs, I tell you - are not processed. And that's why there are no payments. What's the end of this? Spring is here, and it's a big problem, and it's accompanied by a very hard drought. It should be discarded, soil cultivated, and then no gas oil money, no fertilizer, no pesticides. And the banks say that when they settle last year's factoring debt, they'll be willing to make new ones. I think that we should not be dealing with legislative proposals submitted by the two leaders of the Chamber or the President of the Chamber and another Member of Parliament, who is obviously involved in this matter, because it is essentially one of the arms of the Magos, and, for example, they do not eliminate this type of conflict of interest here. It is a serious problem that there are pro-government politicians at the head of public bodies, whose job is to stand up for their own background, their own farmers, and not stand up. They don't stand up, they don't do anything! You can text me and criticize me, but they're just looking for me because some people listen to them. And you guys have closed seats, where you can speak, and you can't speak. You have to watch TV shows that you don't do, where, for example, the former CEO of Cegléd says that the president should be among the people and not in the capital. The problem, my fellow Members, is that this system is not working. This is only good for giving a certain political background to some of the players who will obviously have a good place in the next Parliament, but that does not make it better for the peasant, I would like to say. So I think that an amendment to the law which is also being tabled by those involved is rather unprecedented in the world's legal system, with retroactive effect; I would like to mention the status of a customer here. 'Cause I mean, how can it be like this, being a client, but applying to existing cases? This is taught at the level of elementary law that they do not do this in democracies. That's what Fidesz does when we divide backwards and amend laws retroactively. So I would suggest that this amendment will certainly not be forgotten by the distributors, but that we should take to heart that this chamber operation should also be a real public body, and that it should not be a political body that deals with everything, especially how to collect as much money from farmers as possible, rather than dealing with what is really his job. I'll be wondering when the first substantial measure of farm wells, which affects a lot of small farmers, will appear. Lots of small farmers, I'm just saying. He's asking for a hundred grand in scale, demanding from the government farmers to develop blueprints and returns plans that are amazing. I've never heard anyone say anything about being a human being, so let's not be stupid. Okay, so there's a law to register the well. But it should not be recorded in such a way as to pay tens of thousands or even hundreds of thousands of HUF designer fees for six well - ringed wells! Is that normal? This is where the Secretary of State told me that there's no other way to do this. But there are other ways to do it. If, for example, the chamber here could provide this service, let's say. Since you're collecting that kind of money. The only reason I'm giving you tips here is because if you want to fix the renome at all costs, you could fix it with something like that. I look forward to when there will be some substantive action and when, for example, this year's EU funding will arrive. In two weeks or a week and a half, I'd like to say. And the old ones are in the moon. And don't tell Little Miklós that everyone got it. He's got the big cheese! Then why are they fooling us, or why are they telling farmers that there's a green road and everything on the IT systems, and then there's no payoff? ! Is that why the system had to be reorganized? This is where we should take decisive action and not deal with the fact that now that we have a client in the Chamber and that we can't and how we can still correct a lot of things in order to collect as much money as possible. That's what this bill is about, so there's no way we can give them our names. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the opposition side.]]
u2017-04-03-266	Thank you very much. Now it's time for the lead speaker of Jobbik. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-267	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. I'm not gonna surprise you, I'm gonna shoot the joke at the beginning: Jobbik won't be able to support this amendment either. Especially because we also had serious problems with the original legislation on the Chamber, especially with practical implementation. I think it's pretty talkative that if we look at the national average, 7 percent of the right holders took part in the chamber elections. There must be a reason for that. Of course, I do not mean to say that the previous chamber operation would have been exemplary or should have been supported. It was certainly necessary to make a serious adjustment, but it is evident that this did not work out the way we wanted it to, or as it was said in communication earlier. The fact that 2 percent of the 160,000 cases have problems that have been brought to court may be many or few. [[Balázs Győrffy: Not even that many went to trial.]] What? Not even that much, it's okay. Thank you. But I've come across a case where, by the way, I tell you honestly, I felt that the Chamber was right, and the Chamber represents the side that I think is absolutely to be supported by the common good. But it's not just cases like this. I don't think you have to give the Chamber such a bianko right to intervene. I do not yet know exactly how this would sound from a codification point of view, and I am sure that it can be arranged that the Chamber should have this right only in cases where it can be guaranteed that the Chamber will act according to the spirit of the law. I've had a lot of problems, a lot of requests for abuse of TEOR numbers. I have presented some of these to the Government in the form of a written question, and I have tried to write some of them down with Mr President, because there are many cases where stakeholders have not been aware for years that they are otherwise obliged to pay the Chamber member's fee for this TEOR number. Moreover, no invoice has ever been submitted, no activity has been carried out that would show that they would have to pay this amount. It's absolutely necessary to settle their case. I can't believe that it can't be solved, let's say, with the involvement of the NAV, to clarify this question, that the particular farming organisation just wants to get out of the pay of chamber membership, or hasn't actually done any activity that would justify it. [[20.10]] Not to mention that there are many cases where you have oral or written promises of county chamber managers years earlier to the relevant actor, in which you have tried to ensure that they do not, indeed, do not carry out such activities, you do not have to pay a chamber membership fee, and now, years later, you will receive from you the cheque that is hard to pay in the case of a decent farmer and is ultimately unfair. I also wanted to mention the wells, although it is strange that my socialist fellow Member, Zoltán Gőgös, raises it, because they voted together with the Fidesz on the legislation that allows... [[Zoltán Haughty: But which one? The enforcement order?]] Obviously not the implementing regulation, but the legislation that allows this problem to exist at all. I also believe that there are completely unrealistic expectations, and it can be seen that there are lawyers here in Budapest who have certainly not seen any research in practice, at most from the car, so this needs to be changed as a matter of urgency. I would have waited for a firmer stand of the Chamber in relation to LEADER, even because the original approach of the Chamber would have been reflected in the fact that the masses of fair LEADER contests would appear in this country; I would not have expected that even in a statement some chamber leaders would stand up for reducing the proportion of LEADER to 5 per cent of rural development subsidies; even if I knew that there were a lot of negative examples of LEADER in the previous period, but these people, these criminals, should have been caught, put behind bars, and not the approach themselves, which I am sure is one of Europe's best-reasoned rural development programmes, should have been nullified. Here again, I would have expected a much more pronounced stand of the Chamber, especially, I will say it once again, because, reading the objectives of the Chamber, it is completely in line with this, by the way. Because of the EU payments, we have already talked about it, indeed we would have expected a much more firm stand from the Chamber. I'm glad I caught you from a half sentence, which is when these payments are supposed to be made this week. We are really happy about this, but we should have done it a lot sooner, because the financial sector is really not too lenient for the farmers concerned. All in all, these current reasons also support my view that the Chamber is not doing its job properly, and I do not see the reason to bring it into the possession of more information, let us say, by adopting this legislation. I will not give up, and I hope that we will actually achieve the goal that we set, set out here in the original debate of the law, when we discussed here that by creating a chamber system like the Austrian or even the French, the operation will benefit all the farmers concerned; we are now more distant than ever. I am preparing to override the previous position that I dare say that, in these circumstances, there really should not be a mandatory membership fee, there is just enough resources coming from the European Union for the Chamber, and there is plenty of other sources, so I do not feel proportionate with such services, and I think we can say this on behalf of most stakeholders. So, in addition to these reservations, I can stress once again that we will not be able to support this amendment. Thank you.
u2017-04-03-268	Thank you very much. We now have a representative of the LMP, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am very pleased that my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar and the Group of Jobbik have considered their fate in this mandatory Chamber membership. Obviously, it wasn't about money, either. It was about how many members he had. So let's be clear: this agricultural chamber is a cancer, a tumor on the body of Hungarian farmers, a compulsory something that you artificially maintain and grow [[Dr. Márton Bitay: Color it yet, Robby, we don't understand.]] But what should be cut out of there. Obviously, this agricultural chamber is basically such a fidesz formation. There is only one thing I do not understand here: more powers, more and more rights, more competences go to the Chamber of Agriculture. Do me a favor and tell me something. There is one farmer and the other farmer at the head of the chamber. Why do we still have this FM? The Prime Minister's office has already taken everything. Should we give jobs to two or three good lawyers there? One speaks well, the other is handsome, has a mustache, and I don't know. What's all this FM for anyway? [[Dr. Márton Bitay: I don't have a mustache!]] So if we move a significant part of the powers to the Chamber, and he's going to have to carry out the professional tasks and manage them, if the Prime Minister's Office takes over everything related to the source, then I just don't understand what the Chamber is for. This Chamber Act obviously raises concerns about data processing again. Mr. Balázs Győrffy, Chairman of the Chamber, said as rapporteur. Did you speak here as a chamber president or as a congressman? [[For signal:]] As a congressman, I'm sorry, but isn't this another conflict of interest? I think it is, Zoltán Grimlocks, my fellow Member. When Lajos Szűcs, president of Mohosz, comes in here and starts collecting money for the fishermen, does Erik Bánki come in and starts collecting money for the football players - is that why they have to collect the rights and resources for their own organisations? So how incompatible is this, and you won't even think about it! Anyway... Mr Balázs Győrffy, Member of Parliament, President of the Chamber, said that there will be extended services. I am a member of the Chamber, and I would like to say that I do not want the extended services, not even very much, thank you very much, because of me, don't collect money and authority from the state. However, I agree with the speakers before me, my better fellow Member, the MSZP, that if they say that they are such good services, let us try to see how many people will remain in the Chamber membership and who will be if the compulsory chamber membership is terminated. Obviously, Lárinc Butcher and their friend Tsányi are staying, but how many are left? This top thousand stays where you pay the money to? Who will even legitimize their work here or legitimize their own aspirations? This Chamber Act raises a lot of data management concerns, and would now like to check the application for grants, in addition to the registration data of the membership, and obliges the State Office to provide regular information to the Chamber. What kind of world is this that we're obligating the state office to release the data to a chamber? Doesn't that seem nonsense to you, the whole thing that's codified here? In a normal state, this happens the other way around, so the opposite happens. It gives a public body the power to bring an individual action against decisions of municipal land committees. There's a lot of flaws in the land traffic law, it's full of flaws, and it's putting the system in a very, very bad structure. It would have been a good opportunity to leave the local communities some kind of reflectional opportunity in land trade and land traffic. That's what was completely neutered, and they put it in their own hands with these chambers. Now that we're even giving ourselves a right to bring an action here, I think it's completely nonsense overshooting. In practice, this will be seen as a public body, which, even at some level, is contrary to the Basic Law, since the Hungarian Fundamental Law confers on state entities through the Hungarian government to perform the tasks of the State. It is important to see if something with public authority and competence can be given to a public body. I don't know, just give me European examples of any bar doing this. I think the President of the Chamber, my fellow Member, Győrffy, has a broad view of this, and we have discussed this at an international level. Where else is there? Where is there a chamber in the European Union where all the farmers' support data and resources will be read without further delay? [[Balázs Győrffy: Public data!]] I understand, it is only here that, in addition to the data of the member register, it controls the application for aid, in practice, a control power that should be exercised by those who have not only the competence and competence of Hungary but even the EU accreditation to do so, as a significant part of these funds are EU funding. I do not know how a Hungarian public body can do this on the basis of a legal mandate. So, with the castration of the farmers' circles, it is the supreme - I would really like to congratulate the Congress on Friday, because we have managed to eliminate the remnant of democracy within the Magos. I didn't mean to mention that the President was still in office, but I can see that there is a problem with those who are rebelling. [[István Jakab: Get to the point, Congressman.]] Now, with full membership, the Chamber will be shaped to the convenience of the political governing body, so obviously that's what makes it interesting. The only question is whether they would support this legislation even if you were in opposition, and Zoltán Gőgös would sit there in the seat of Márton Bitay and say that the Chamber should take over the powers. You should put yourself in that position at some point, because, in principle, laws are not meant to be passed for a government cycle. And they don't create for a year. So the applicability of these laws will remain even if you are no longer here, and you will no longer be chamber officials, and you - there are just two people here who manage - may be able to verify your data and your support even if you are not able to identify with a body on any level. I think that all of this legislation continues to give rise to an unacceptable direction to Hungarian agriculture, which would need to be completely weeded out. You know very well that Hungarian farmers are self-conscious people, such control, this kind of guardianship, this kind of power is very difficult for us to bear. Accordingly, a Chamber representing the interests of farmers would be needed. [[20.20]] My fellow Member, Zoltán Gőgös, spoke about this for a long time, and I do not want to repeat what he said, but let me summarize in one sentence: the problem of the Chamber is that he does not represent the farmers against the government at the moment, but represents the government against the farmers, explain in his circulars and letters to farmers how good he is at what he is doing. Basically, it is clearly not possible to agree with this direction; this is not in the interest of Hungarian farmers; this is not in the interest of the Hungarian agricultural land and the Hungarian countryside. If the FM cannot perform its duties and is unable to exercise the rights conferred upon it, it must be capitulated and the entire FM terminated, and not just for appearances of a few lawyers, to keep a decorative institution. This is a very nice building in Kossuth Square, it will certainly be useful to use in other ways. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: Not so beautiful on the inside!]] If we figure this out, then the Chamber will have to hand over all the powers. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-04-03-270	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now, please, the thing is, on behalf of the government, Secretary Bitay has come forward. He's got the floor. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-271	Thank you very much. I just wanted to respond to what has just been said here by Congressman Sallai. If you feel that way, why don't you do your own agri-interest representation, Congressman? Then where are the crowds you're talking about? You know why they don't do it? Because you're a very cute agroceleb, but you have nothing to do with the agricultural world. And your party has absolutely nothing to do with it. And there's no one to catch up on the agricultural side and try to follow the principles you're telling me. It's the truth. I'd like to reassure you, I've seen a lot of things, and I've seen farmers protest, and they can enforce their interests if they want to. And I didn't see people of such calm temperament who have long tolerated the evil and tyrannical agricultural chambers eviscerating them for years and going bankrupt at the end of a bad government. Usually, after a minimum tolerance threshold, some road is closed, or they come up to Kossuth Square, or there are slaughtered cattle heads during a milk crisis under the Ministry arcade of Kossuth Square. So there's usually some sort of social resistance. [[They're afraid, Mr. Secretary of State.]] The truth is, what you're saying is a political resistance, but I don't see any agricultural resistance. I would like to join the proposal only in one, which I think is a real mistake, that these are public databases that we are talking about here. So I, you too, can look at the previous website of the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development or now on the Treasury website, who has agricultural support. So let's not pretend this is some kind of secret database. Anyone can access it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-04-03-272	Thank you very much. Historical moment, because the Hungarian language grew with a new word: agroceleb. Two beautiful Latin words - watch out for celebers, because their attachment is not the usual [[Defiance.]] - from which this term came together; which then created the opportunity for the Hungarian Congressman to apply for a two-minute comment. Here you go. We'll find out if he's speaking to him now or if he's talking to him in agricultural matters. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-273	Thank you, Mr. President. I would not speak to the agroceleb; I like it very much; I will take it, too, if Mr. Secretary of State gives me permission to do so. [[Dr. Bitay Márton Örs: Nana! Royalty!]] We'll be able to apply it to a lot of people close to the government. To capture the essence of the problem and the difference: Mr Secretary of State, this is a very good sentence, why Róbert Sallai Benedek does not form an agricultural-interest-protection organisation. [[Dr. Márton Bitay Örs: Interest representation, I said.]] Interesting representation, it's okay. Because it is not normal for parties to form representation and parties to stand behind interest representatives, this is not the characteristic of the luckier part of Europe. And I hope that we will agree with my fellow Member that we do not want such a Hungary. [[Intercom from the opposition benches: That's right!]] , where representatives of different fields of expertise are organised behind parties. Unfortunately, at Fidesz, we see this method, and I believe that they are socialized in it, but accept that it is not normal, and that is not what brings the fate of the sector forward. And the fact that there are no protests at the moment is not because the actors of the Hungarian agriculture would be satisfied. [[Zoltán Pride: They fear terror!]] They are afraid; quite simply they have built a country where they are afraid, Mr. Secretary of State. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz. Zoltán Grimlock: That's right!]] You can smile about it, but you fought communism until you built your own. That's the problem. Anyone who dares to open his mouth today in Hungary dares to form an opinion against the government - as I have already raised in an immediate question today - it is simply blackmailed, intimidated, obliterated. And whoever doesn't belong to this category sits here among you in greasy jobs, who, by the way, should represent the interests of the sector. That's the problem. There's no protests because everything's fine, in fact. Thank you.
u2017-04-03-274	Thank you very much. We will now return to the speakers who have been announced. Mr Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, wishes to speak. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-03-275	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I like the word agroceleb, too, but I would not have a rhetorical comment, as Mr President said, on the bill. In fact, if I were to say that we look at the substance, then I would say two things: one would be that, according to the proposal before us now, not only the failed Chamber member fee would be a public debt to collect taxes, but also the unpaid fee and registration fee. I am not saying that this is, by the way, a thought from a devil, although, overall, we have already said so, and my honourable fellow Member mentioned what was wrong with the original bill; in a normal country, a normally functioning chamber, that would be acceptable. A more important proposal for a change, perhaps expressed by my fellow Member Győrffy, is that the Chamber should be considered a client in all administrative matters when it carries out a statutory task and so that it can be sued and sued. This is because when the Chamber, acting as a land committee, refuses to approve a land sale contract, this decision can be changed by the municipality. Moreover, there is also a reference to this in the grounds of the law, as regards the Law on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land 17/2015. the Constitutional Court's decision that the right granted to the Land Committees in the Act on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land is not contrary to a certain Article of the Fundamental Law to prevent a land sales contract. As a constitutional requirement, the Constitutional Court stated in this referenced decision that this fundamental right to a particular remedy was guaranteed only if - and two things are mentioned - the resolution of the Land Committees included in the assessment required by the Act such detail that its logic could be assessed in a meaningful administrative procedure - I will not read it through - and the second is that the decision of the representative body of the local self-government to challenge the resolution of the Land Committee as an interim substantive decision may be subject to judicial review. I do not want to put it out there, but we could also say that when quickly, quickly, they put together this Chamber of Agriculture Act, which they are about to amend, they have actually created an anti-law situation. This also shows that the law at that time was not right, so it was also right that we did not support it. In fact, it is against the basic law that if the Chamber acted as a land committee, this raised very serious procedural concerns about its proceedings so far. He mentioned in his speech as a speaker that we did not support the law which the current bill intended to amend, because we thought it was bleeding from a thousand wounds, and I think - and now as a lawyer, if I may put it this way - that we did not agree with it, and that we have also repeatedly explained that Fidesz practically concluded a cooperation agreement with Magos, we could also call Magos an association compared to Fidesz, and then there are personal overlaps in the management of Magos, Fidesz and the Chamber of Agriculture. We have also said that we do not think it is right or right, and we think that it is not right that the Chamber of Agriculture, as a body for the public body and as an interest organisation, is under political control and political influence, and that is why we did not agree with this at the same time, so we did not support the original bill, and we think it is particularly harmful that if it is precisely the leader of the Chamber of Agriculture, my fellow Member Győrffy, they have said in the press that he wants to legislate for himself, not for himself, but for the organisation he presided over, but, however, I think that this is indeed a very important policy, if such a term can be said, how moral or ethical or legally acceptable it is. We know that there is no legal barrier to this and there is no barrier to it, but we think that this is not a proper procedure, it is not a proper procedure, and therefore, as my fellow Member Grimlock has already said, we will not be able to support the bill. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President.
u2017-04-03-276	Thank you very much, Congressman. As a regular speaker, the representative of Jobbik, Mr László György Lukács, is now coming. Here you go. [[20.30]]
u2017-04-03-277	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear tableds, As a country rep, I was happy to listen, to watch the good debate that we had here. By the way, I feel empowered to live in Karcagon, and yet I am surrounded by agriculture and agriculture, and I am surrounded by farmers' everyday problems to bring to you a problem that I do not know whether this amendment will answer. If you give, they will explain how, or if not, we should move in this direction and think together. After all, this does not really concern the farmers, but the municipalities. Because if I interpret the legislation correctly and try to find a connection in it, then the objection against the decision of the Land Committee is judged by the municipality. This is an appeal to administrative and labour courts, and this means of redress may be used. Well, in this remedy, one of the very flawed elements, I think, is that, usually, if the land committee adopts an infringement decision, and this unlawful decision is also approved by the municipality, and the client appeals to the court, and his appeal stops in the court, then in this case all the costs of litigation, the levy, both the municipality and the sole party to the trial, or litigation party, because in this case no one else has the legal capacity to sue, only the municipality or the clerk of the office, so from this point forward all the costs are on their necks, or they are on their watch. I know this from the fact that Karcagon has repeatedly indicated that in a notorious case, which, in my opinion, stems from a well-meaning decision, but I think that the ground committee is on a constantly flawed legal basis; a permanent, now-rounding case has been created which always comes to the conclusion that an objection, in the objection, the municipality, the municipality's decision or its decision will be appealed and the municipality will fail to sue. They are now in the third round in this case, and the municipality is constantly forced to absorb the costs of the lawsuit and all the costs associated with the losing lawsuit. So my question would first of all be whether the current amendment of the law offers a solution to this. If not, how would it be possible to achieve that these costs would not, in the event of a losing position, constitute the burden of the municipality's budget and not increase it. After all, I believe that the municipalities were not prepared for the fact that, in this case, if the decision or their decision is appealed and, by the way, will be infringed, but this decision was based on the previous decision, i.e. the decision of the land committee... - and here I put in parentheses who had the decision capacity or the opportunity to judge it correctly, the municipality always assumes that the land committees had the professional capacity and the ability to decide correctly. Thus, in the very vast majority of cases, the decisions of the Land Committee are not changed or taken in the opposite direction. Thus, such a coded error is brought with it by the municipality, and I think an almost automatic loss of lawsuit on their side will be the result. That is what I wanted to find out whether this is the case or whether this amendment of the law provides a solution to this. If not, is there a possibility, and when is it possible to modify it? It is precisely because I do not believe that only the Karcag municipality is in this position, but I think that a lot of other municipalities may be in this situation, that they stand there to defend a well-founded decision that they do not know, and that they appear as a losing party from time to time at the end of the negotiations, thereby making their own situation worse and stacking up their own costs. So if the authors have a position on this, or if the FM has a position on it, then I look forward to the comments on this and what other solutions could be found. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-03-278	Thank you very much, Congressman. We now have a two-minute speech, István Jakab, Vice-President, in two minutes, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-279	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I am only signaling to Mr. Grimlock for personal assault, and that will be one sentence: to transform your own constitution in your own organization, to shape it any way you want, to settle on your own table, on mine, on our table - not on our desk - point. Back on the subject, and I will follow, Mr President, because I was forced to say this in public on a personal matter. Dear fellow Members, The way chamber services operate indicates that the Hungarian economy - one - was able to fully transform when switching to a whole new support system. Two: all the n+2, all the EU funds from Hungary, as far as the countryside and agriculture are concerned, have been drawn. In addition, please say one more organization that provides full service in EU and other cases for a membership fee of HUF 2 thousand per year. And let's explain that to the farmers. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-03-280	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. I see that my question has been a bit of a surprise, but since it is not, I am pleased to say that no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. And so I'm going to ask the author if he wants to reflect. Congressman Győrffy, I think I can see that you stood up because you wanted to talk, not to move your feet. [[Defiance.]] Then, as your pointer, you may conclude the debate. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-281	Thank you, Mr. President. He understood very well my intention to respond to what was said in the debate. I think that the amendment itself has actually been affected by some thought by my fellow Members. We had a general debate on agricultural policy and on the interpretation of public bodies, which I am not surprised about. Allow me to put some material errors on the table and try to make things right. I would like to proceed in chronological order, so I would like to reply to my fellow Member, Haughty. Honourable Congressman, With regard to land leases as a practicing farmer, I am obviously involved in the development of normal rents, which has the potential to produce it. There is a land in which I think that 100 thousand forints or close value may be an economic reality, but this is a part of the Hungarian land fortune that can be measured in thousands, and I think that the general fact is that this is not the characteristic of the Hungarian countryside. The amendment to the legislation that I have tabled, among other things, which proposed a solution for land lease fees, contained, honourable Member, that it could be adapted to the market rent. I would like to note, Mr President, that this also means that the possibility of reducing the rent is included in this legislation. So please don't put it like this as a general rent increase, because that's not true in this form. Dear fellow Member, It's not my place to protect my friend Miklós Kis, but let me draw your attention to that, and if you've been watching the news, then Miklós Kis said that based on the information he received from the Treasury, he can give you the following numbers. I think we should ask the Treasury for numbers, as the Secretary of State has done. [[Zoltán Grimlock: But why don't you check it out?]] I very much hope that you have given the State Secretary of State the exact numbers. Allow me to assume that this has happened. Honourable Congressman, With regard to the Chamber Act and the Chamber Elections, both the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office took the view that it complied with the current legal framework, in accordance with the Basic Law. And one more thing I would like to draw your attention to, honourable Member, is that this year there will be chamber elections, so every civil society organisation has the opportunity to run for chamber elections. The condition of participation in the Chamber elections has not changed in the last four years, so after five years, it is possible to participate in the Chamber elections under the same conditions as could be done in the previous term. And I would like to make one more important point, and in this, I think that some of my opposition fellow Members are either mistaken or deliberately ignoring something very important. [[20.40]] For example, in Austria, which in many cases is a school example of chamber operations, bar parties may run for chamber elections. In chamber elections, candidates from the parties are qualified. So to say that, in the case of countries with more fortunate historical developments, the public bodies of the Chamber are not politicised, this does not actually hold up. However, I would also like to point out one thing: the public body, as opposed to civil society organisations, is essentially a body created by law, and from then on it has been created by political will, so in this way it is simply a fool to take account of its total separation from politics. Let me tell the Member about the legalisation of the wells, what the Chamber's position is, which we have raised on several occasions. We initiated a moratorium by the end of 2018 so that farmers would not be punished if otherwise watered from unauthorized wells. Let me get this straight. We initiated a moratorium so that these farmers could not be punished, and we gave them a relatively long time to be able to legalize these wells. My fellow Member, I would like to say one more thing. The government will be constantly consulted on how those expensive control fees and the very long procedure could be substantially shortened. For the record, this is obviously not a public event. The Chamber of Engineers will discuss how design fees can be substantially reduced. But let us not forget one thing: the European Union gives certain exact conditions to draw funds, including the need to pay attention to the protection of both surface and groundwater waters. Not in one case, we see that not only, but partly because of illegal wells, there are areas where the quality of water bodies has reached a critical level. Congressman, it is in our common interest to keep water in that condition, and obviously we can agree that with thousands of illegal wells in the country, this is a small opportunity. I think that we agree on this and do not turn this professional into a political debate. To my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, I would say that the percentage of rejected land purchase intentions is 2 percent, but not all of them will be lawsuits. We've got about 200 lawsuits right now. I think that if we compare this to hundreds of thousands of cases, that means a few thousand or tens of thousands. On the matter of the TEAC, Mr President, the legislation clearly states that if a person's scope of activity covers these matters, he must count on chamber membership. The fact that your accountant or your lawyer hasn't noticed that you've been a member of the Chamber for three years, and he won't be in contact with us, and we've only been able to build the databases on which we were able to address the fact that, in our opinion, you're a member, then I can't help it. I think it is fair that I address him, because if I do not do this, I am involved in unfaithful treatment, because it is my duty and, by the way, it is my moral duty to those who pay the membership fee to do so from all those who are otherwise obliged to do so by law. However, we do not intend to use unconventional solutions. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that those members - and we opened this last year, we will also open this year - who we have called to say that, please, you already have a Chamber membership in 2012 and 2013, and you are not doing this activity, although TEÁOR will appear in your business card, take it out, and if you say that you are not doing this and you will not do it for three years, we will actually release all your previous rest and all your previous debts, in addition to paying a one-year membership fee. I think that we have taken a lot of steps and are constantly making membership fees that make this all lifelike. What is the role of a public body with regard to grants? Honourable Congressman, We can work together to ensure that, as far as possible, chamber members, farmers, have access to all the EU funds they can. Here's the role of the villager's network, I think it's huge. Honourable Congressman, The farmers were helped by village farmers to a thousand billion forints. That means half a million acres of land, Congressman. How can we help you? In order to ensure that applications are submitted on time. And we can help you not to reduce the number of areas you've submitted. In France, England and Romania, Member, the payment deadline of 30 June - this year, 30 June is the payment deadline - had to be amended to 31 August. In Romania and England, the number of areas injected in hectares decreased because they could not be injected. There was no mention of this in Hungary. So I think that we can provide a meaningful service in this and allow us to be truly proud of that. And what the Chamber is doing, Mr. Congressman: among other things, we have initiated the construction of a national anti- hail system. In the rural development programme, we have proposed to include one of these, and we would like to submit a proposal for this until 14 April, so that we can achieve this. With a HUF turned on, we can protect 33 HUF production value. Congressman, in one year, we can save 50 billion HUF production value for the Hungarian agriculture. In contrast to the HUF 4 billion a year membership fee we're collecting, I think it's not such a bad deal in itself. I would say to my colleague in Sallai, with the issue of Ancient Producer Cards, which is free, by the way, since the Chamber was formed, we have saved two thousand forints for farmers. The smallest chamber membership fee - and this is paid by most - is also HUF 2,000. In the last four years, we have left a billion forints at the smallest. Obviously in small amounts of HUF 2,000, but we left a billion forints. That's a quarter of our annual membership fee, by the way. And to the fact that democracy in Magos has failed, honourable Members who say so simply do not know what they are saying. Colleagues, let's be honest. The new Civil Code required that a general meeting be held every year. This is the case with Magos, because there are hundreds of people involved, thank God, if any, the movement of five hundred people, there was not a general assembly every year. Instead, a election of 50 members was elected and adopted the budget and adopted the reports. But since it is now mandatory to convene these hundreds of people each year, the function of the selection has become empty in this sense. So I would also like to say to my fellow Member, Haughty, that we should be so honest with each other that we do not say that we have broken down the possibilities of advocacy and opinion formation in Magos. It's demagogy, and there's absolutely no basis for it. Perhaps that would be enough, and I promised my fellow Member Luke an answer. Congressman! In the event that the Chamber decides not to support, let's say, the acquisition of land for the particular buyer, the municipality has the opportunity to review in one case and to say no: if the Chamber, as a land committee, has taken a legal decision. If, in spite of the fact that the decision is not lawful in the view of the court, the municipality has agreed to do so, although the legal position of the court is not legal, then the municipality has made a big mistake and I think that it cannot be done routinely, and the municipalities have the legal capacity to decide whether this was a legitimate decision or not. It is not the matter of content that needs to be considered, only and only that the Chamber acted legally as a land committee or not. If you make the mistake of doing so superficially and so on the basis of trust, please do not. I think that a normal, legally correct control is good for every system, and then I think it is right to bear the financial burden of that in court proceedings. The present option, which is part of the legislative amendment, basically means that if the Chamber does not agree with the local government... - and I would like to thank my fellow Member for the honesty that two of us have spoken in private about cases where the municipality has abused this opportunity and, in exchange for a playground, places hundreds of hectares of land in otherwise unauthorized hands. I think, on the other hand, that the Chamber should have the legal opportunity to defend its position in court. We are not saying that the Chamber can abuse this and review the decision of the municipality at a quasi-third instance, but we are asking for the possibility that, in cases where we consider that a decision contrary to our position and our legal opinion is being taken at the municipal level, we should be able to defend it in a court of law, and obviously the decision of the court will decide on this matter in some form. Mr. President. Thank you very much, and I would like to respond to what has been said in this debate. [[20.50]]
u2017-04-03-282	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First of all, MEP Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, on the party of the countryside. What now, Rabaköz? It's an address. Here you go.
u2017-04-03-283	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Technically, I must now repeat some of your speeches after the agenda for the past few weeks, not because of my own fault, but because they have simply not received a meaningful response, and this is not offensive to me, because as opposition representatives, I cannot force you to respond, but I have met nearly a dozen mayors who have outlined these problems to me, or through the reception hours only if I look at the last three months, I have had the opportunity to consult at least two hundred citizens in this form. It's the solar panel factory in Csorna. Here I miss not only the answer, but also the substantive steps. We are talking about HUF 10 billion in taxpayers' money, as Eximbank and the Hungarian government supported the investment, which should have been in operation for some time. But all we know now is that the employees who had previously been recruited have been sent away, and the plant itself stands, no technology, and the solar panel factory doesn't look like it's going to run in the near future. There have been rumors that there may have been government interests behind this transaction. Please, your colleagues will come clean if these are not true. We were also waiting for a promise of the road network. Every year, I submit to the budget an amending proposal to improve the country's second worst-case road network. It is very important to support the construction of the expressway, but we find that in each of the three parameters defining the accepted road quality, our area is well below the national average, and, as I said, if I remember correctly, the second worst after Heves County is the Rábaköz in this respect. And this affects not only the quality of cars, not only the safe journey, but indeed the small-walled areas - because Rábaköz is such - the quality of access to services is much worse than, say, for our fellow urban citizens. By going through the municipalities, there is a constant stream of complaints, and not only about the TOP applications, but they say that the humiliating salary of the municipal employees has led to the loss of the best competitive workforce, since the competitive sector offers them opportunities on significantly better terms. In this way, however, small-scale areas, small-scale regions such as Rábaköz, are losing the chance of real quality rural development taking place in these settlements, as in many cases these small municipalities are the ones that, in practice, carry out the task of rural development in their own right. Thus their cry for help is also this speech. There have also been a lot of complaints about how much less quality and how much more impossible health services can be achieved in this region than in the county seat or in larger cities, while they are on paper the same citizens of our country, who live in smaller settlements and contribute to the maintenance of these services through their tax forints and their work. I very much hope that, in quality, the government's attitude to small settlements will change radically and that, at last, not only will the countryside be caught up in words, but also the massive amounts that arrive through EU funds with a label for rural development will finally go to the place where they are labelled and will serve to catch up. However, I am not naive, and I have had the pleasure of looking at your governance since 2010, in this way I fear that until 2018, a better government change will have to change the attitude here in substance, and these hundred billion forints will really translate into what they are labeled, as I said. So I am not naive in this form, but it was definitely important to say that the cry for help of these regional mayors and citizens is worth saying here in the House, and it would be good if I were to speak not only as an opposition representative, but also by insisting on my fellow pro-government Members. However, they seem to be no longer present at this meeting with one person, and in such a way we can expect this in vain. Let us hope that this situation will change quickly. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-03-284	Thank you very much. We now have an statement from independent Congresswoman Márta Demeter following the agenda: "Where is Hungary going? It's an address. Here you go. [[21.00]]
u2017-04-03-285	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Many times in recent years, the point has come to ask where Hungary is going, but I think that the events of the past days are raising this question again. I am thinking, in particular, of the CEU case, and of the shameful law that the majority in favour of government want to adopt on this excellent university. Today, more than a thousand scientists and 14 Nobel laureates have protested what is happening in Hungary about CEU, and nearly ten thousand students, educators and people who are outraged by such a law of academic autonomy, which roughly intervenes in university autonomy, who condemn it, protested together yesterday. A lot of people, and that doesn't interest the government at all, didn't touch them at all, so much so that I would like to push this law through Parliament in 24 hours. CEU is one of Hungary's best universities, based on the evaluation of both students and the profession. And it's a very strange situation, which has evolved, because we obviously see that this has a basically customary power-political, power-trick logic, which we've gotten used to by the Orbán government over many years, as well as drawing up and creating the eternal image of enemies. But in addition to all of this, and even considering it, it is very strange that the government that always analyzes every situation, situation, measures exactly how it works, and tries to carry out its activities and enforce the elements of power, as if it were now a huge mistake. I mean, you get a feeling about statements here, like the government's trying to score red points in some American circles in the United States. But I have to say - this is György Soros, with the vestige of the institutions or organizations associated with it - that he seems very wrong about that. By the way, I wonder when the government will figure this out, or whether it will ever realize that this is a very wrong move, as I would like to draw attention here to the fact that the United States does not work like Hungary. So while in Hungary anything can be done that if a person is declared to be an enemy, they can be dismissed day and night, there are laws against him, and besides, the government may not even stand up for those Hungarian citizens who are being insulted by measures, the United States does so in favour of its citizens. And it can be seen that the U.S. Attorney General has already said that both the major parties, the Democrat and the Republican Party, support the operation of the CEU. So I don't know what you're hoping for, what red dots you're hoping for from this whole measure, the government, because it's just a loss. The Hungarian people lose the most, the students lose the most, the Hungarian higher education itself is the one that loses a lot, and the remaining remaining trust in Hungary is completely eroded, and this measure is also at the expense of it. Moreover, in the explanatory statement of the CEU Act, the part in which national security concerns are referred to is quite horrific. I would quote from this:, the relevant provisions of the Higher Education Act must ensure - there is a list here, followed by: - student, educational movement, timely national security aspects during entry. So I think that there is no place for this here, and this again suggests that the government would try to give the situation an interpretation of any national security risk, whether in relation to students or teachers. I would add that, by the way, in connection with the real threat of settlement bonds, the Moscow visa case and the Pharaon case, the government did not see any national security risk. So it can be seen that we are not talking about a misinterpretation of national security thematics, because we might even think about this, but we are talking about an explicit intention, national security considerations are used for daily purposes, such as the Mečiar, Milosevich time; this should not be done in Hungary. Maybe we shouldn't do that. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It is still possible for members of the government to withdraw this law and for the government to adopt this law; it must not be adopted. This brings shame to Hungary again. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-03-286	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, the Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. I'm closing the meeting, saying good night to all of you. [[Meeting ended at 9:02 p.m.]]
