u2017-05-22-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 29th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Attila Gelencsér and Loyal Dezső notaries will be here to help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Today we start our work with speeches before the agenda. After that, the questions will take place from 11:50 to 13:20, then from 13:20 to 14:20, the instant questions and answers will take place. After that, we will continue our work with a political debate from approximately 14:20, and we will conclude the Parliament's meeting with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of Group, MSZP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. Let's stop the Fidesz! It's an address. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2017-05-22-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, in Strasbourg, the European Parliament condemned Fidesz. Because of Fidesz, a procedure will be launched against Hungary, which will bring shame on all Hungarians. Fidesz's country and Europe-breaking policy has not been on the European Parliament's agenda for the first time. How is this situation different? Ladies and gentlemen, this resolution has now been voted in favour of your principled, right-wing brothers and sisters, not only by liberal-social Democrats, but also by 67 MEPs. Your friends, your brothers on the right, they said that was enough. What is this decision about? The fact that the rule of law, democracy, the situation of fundamental rights, freedom of expression and scientific life have seriously deteriorated in recent years during the administration of Fidesz; that there are problems with the functioning of the constitutional system, the independence of the judiciary and other institutions. They limit the activities of civil society organisations, and every year, government corruption increases, an example of which is the expansion of the 100 billion-dollar assets of the gas repairer Mészáros, a non-stróman, Lőrinc last year. What's new? Nothing for us Hungarians. That's what we see every day. What's new is that now your right-wing brothers and friends have opened their eyes. Ladies and gentlemen, This resolution is a mirror to the governance and power of Fidesz. Just because this mirror is a pompous and arrogant, although it now shows a little bit of a pompous man and his country and Europe-destroying policy, doesn't mean you have to curse the mirror. This resolution does not attack the Hungarian people, but advocates the criminal policy of Fidesz. It is not the result of some kind of backseat conspiracy, but of a stand-up to European values and a message of common sense. And what does the former Soros Scholar say about that? We'll defend our position if we have to, we'll go to the wall. Fellow Members! That was the wall. Knocking and painful shouting can be heard from Strasbourg to Hajdúdúgog. Ladies and gentlemen, This power doesn't tolerate anything that doesn't depend on it. He doesn't want this country to have a university, a school, an institution that doesn't depend on him. He does not want civil society organisations operating in Hungary that he does not fund. And he does not want anyone to speak out for freedom, Europeanism and democracy. However, we Hungarians are proud of European values, freedom, democracy, cooperation of peoples and free borders. We want to strengthen Europe and not weaken it. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to stop this shameful procedure and the destruction of the government's country and Europe policy, today we are presenting a package of proposals, called the Europe-saving package, to the Parliament. According to the European rescue package, Fidesz must stop stigmatizing civil society organisations; stop chasing CEU and stop stealing EU money. The adoption of this rescue package can be the first step towards the reconstruction of Hungary. If you do not support these measures, you will be politicalising against the interests of Hungary and the Hungarian nation. I ask you to put Hungary's interests before your personal interests, exceptionally. If you do not do this, believe me, after 2018, we will do it for our future together, Hungary! Thank you for your attention.
u2017-05-22-2	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-22-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, I would also like to make it clear to you that this government is committed to Europe, a strong Europe. We are interested in a strong Europe, which, by the way, builds on strong Member States, strong nation states, according to the original intentions of the founders. That is why we raise our voice in the face of any phenomenon that threatens this, endangers the original values. There is a serious difference of opinion between us and the left, and it seems to me that there is a lasting difference of opinion, because we do not see our own work in adjusting to the expectations of the international institutions or the EU institutions in everything. This government has signed a contract to protect the interests of the country, and if it has to, it will argue for them, and it will do so every time. In this regard, allow me to say that what the left has done in the European Parliament last week is scandalous. Not only did the left initiate a resolution attacking Hungary, but they even voted for it, all your MEPs voted in favour of this resolution. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: 67 EPP...]] I would also like to tell you that your representative, Tibor Szanyi, surely knows that in his public television - perhaps in public - he made it clear that this resolution is nothing but political pressure. So the MSZP goes to Brussels to report the country [[Zoltán Grimlock: Not the country, you!]] and it will attack Hungary, and it will vote in favour of these reports if its own internal political interests so require. [[Zoltán Gógös: 28 countries voted...]] It's a separate scandal that they supported a resolution with their votes, [[Dr. László Varga: You are the problem!]] to protect one of those immigrants, one of those illegal immigrants [[The president's ringing the bell.]] who attacked the Hungarian police with stones. To make this worse, you supported a resolution that would weaken the legal and physical border closure in Hungary. That is also what this resolution is about, which you mentioned. It is also extremely tricky to attack home with all the tools available, to drill national consultations [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: We shouldn't give the Russians the data...]] and then go to Brussels and vote in favour of another resolution, which would speed up resettlement programmes. You can also check which socialist Members voted in favour of this resolution. There is one more thing I would like to talk to you about, also because in your speech, if I recall correctly, you also spoke about corruption. And this is that, while the MSZP, the Socialist Party, regularly expresses moral expectations, often in an otherwise instructive tone, the Prime Minister's candidate is becoming more and more bloated with corruption scandals. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Does he go to a restaurant?]] I am not referring to the assets hidden from the declarations of property, but to the Seviép scandal, where 11 billion forints disappeared. [[Zoltán Pride: Yeah!]] and could have damaged hundreds of entrepreneurs... [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts. Dr. László Varga: Thief, bastards! Intruder from the benches of the MSZP: You're lying, too!]] Former CEO's defense attorney...
u2017-05-22-4	Congressman Haughty, the Secretary of State listened to you, the head of the group, when you spoke. [[Zoltán Pride towards Csaba Dömötör: Don't point fingers, old man!]] Please! Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-22-5	According to the former CEO's defense attorney - he gave me a statement last week, and I recommend it to you - there was an economic crime, and he's classified it as a crime, so check it out. If the defense attorney thinks there's been an economic crime, then why are you silent? Why is the Socialist Party silent? [[Dr. László Varga: This is your scandal! Dr. Tamás Bellozó: The driver is lying!]] This former CEO, by the way, used to have a joint venture with István Ujhelyi, whose driver, by the way, is involved in this case. [[Dr. László Varga: Dirty propaganda!]] What do the socialists do when they hear such accusations? What are you doing? László Botka did not allow the victims to protest, one of the protesters was taken in handcuffs, and journalists interested in the cause were Nazisted, fascistized, and when interested in this case, they simply advertise a media boycott. [[11.10]] This shows that this MSZP is the same MSZP, the same one that brought together the most corrupt government in the last 30 years. [[Dr. László Varga: You are a vicious gang of thieves, with you in the lead!]] The same MSZ that surrounded Kossuth Square with cordons and had the police shoot at those who disagree with him. After that, it is hypocrisy that László Botka, on the basis of his own programme, would separate from the socialists who were involved in the left-wing failure in 2010, especially hypocrites from the man who voted three times for the nomination of Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány. Now, here's how it's going to be on the left. It's the same socialist record we've heard a thousand times. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! As difficult as it may be, yet I ask you to listen to each other, I think this is the best way forward. Dear Parliament, Member Gábor Vona, Jobbik Group also applied for a speech before the agenda: Jobbik has achieved historical success: the fight for the Bérunio can begin. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-22-7	Mr President, Dear Parliament, 13 years ago we joined the European Union [[Dr. László Varga and Zoltán Gőgös are talking to Dr. János Fónagy. The president's ringing the bell.]] And since then, we have caught up with the Western Member States in terms of prices, but unfortunately, in terms of wages, we have failed, and we could also say that the goods union has been achieved, but the Wages Union has not been achieved. Basically, there are two responsible for this hiatus, this deficiency. One is the failure of the European Union's unjust functioning and cohesion policy, which has made the Eastern Central European region and the people living here a cheap workforce; the other is responsible for your governance and the governance of their predecessors, the Fidesz and the MSZP governments, whose faulty, bad and sinful policies have contributed to this, assisted by keeping the Hungarian workforce at a low-cost level. This is why, while the Hungarian average wage was a third of the average German wage in the mid-2000s, it now slipped back to a quarter of the Fidesz government. Ladies and gentlemen, That is why Jobbik initiated the European Wages Union, which is why we turned to the European Commission, which was adopted by the European Commission last Tuesday, the 16th. So a European citizens' initiative, or more commonly known as a European referendum on the matter of the Wages Union, will be a very symbolic success, since the following day you were condemned in a serious resolution in the European Parliament. Let us add that Jobbik's representatives did not support this resolution - we do not like to expose family laundry abroad - but this duality is symbolic: that you speak, what we do; that you isolate Hungary in Europe, and that we bring Eastern Central Europe together; that you tell us to stop Brussels, and that we tell you to stop Viktor Orbán and to make the European Union a fairer, fairer, more solidarityable community; that you build your economic policy on cheap labour, and that we are building on the wages that come to the European level. This is a huge difference, honourable Members, which is drawn between our policies. But let me tell you a few words about what this Wage Union initiative really is about, because it seems that you do not understand or do not want to understand. The Prime Minister has repeatedly said that he is not in favour of the Union because we would give Brussels extra licenses. That's not true. The point for i was posted last week by János Halász with his statement, when he said that Hungarian wages should not catch up to the EU level, because then migrants will be relocated here. If there were an Uncle Besenyő Pista award in Hungarian public life, then this Besenyő Pista award should therefore be awarded to János Halász for his sentence, because the aim of this - if they took the trouble and read the initiative - is to integrate the principle of equal pay for equal work into the fundamental objectives, principles and practices of the European Union - that is all. Eight Eastern-Central European Member States joined forces with Jobbik in order to get this principle in there, and at last everyone in their homeland can thrive, all Europeans, including Eastern-Central Europeans, including Hungarians. This is therefore a historic success, my fellow Members, so feel free to be happy, although nothing has been done about it but rather against it, but feel free to be proud that the last week has not only been about the European Parliament's judgment decision, because no Hungarian party has been able to initiate a European referendum so far, we are the first, and not just on any issue, because the wage issue is the most important issue, the source of all our misery. That is why Hungarians are migrating, and that is why there is a demographic crisis, which is why Hungarians are indebted to them, and that is why Hungarians cannot manage in their own country, in their homeland. On the 16th, ladies and gentlemen, a new era began, and the real fight for freedom for competitive Hungarian wages and competitive Hungarian businesses has begun, because the two are connected. But speaking of competitive Hungarian businesses, we need a genuine, fair, fair, solidarity-based cohesion policy and a new European Union. So our European Wage Union initiative is actually about a new Europe, drawing out the outlines of a new Europe. We are not thinking of a Europe that you, we are not asking Brussels for alms, we are not asking for development resources that can be stolen, as you are doing, but we are asking Europe to create a fair, just framework, a solidarity-based community in which we Hungarians can manage our diligence, creativity and knowledge in our own country, where the Hungarian state is able to pay public workers with their European wages, where Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises are able to pay European wages to their employees, and where the multinationals operating in Hungary also pay European wages to Hungarian people. Obviously, you're saying that you can't do this overnight. That's right. But what have you done so far? Over the past 13 years, the gap has grown between the average Hungarian wage and the average European wage, and we have said that this is enough. Jobbik started this real freedom fight, in 2017 it started this fight for the Union of Wages, after 2018 it will continue and finish by government, because Hungarian people deserve the same wage for the same work, Hungarian people deserve to manage in their homeland. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-22-8	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-22-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Man raises all of his existing eyebrows when Jobbik is involved in an initiative that would actually - and that is the point - take powers away from Hungary for the benefit of the Union, namely in terms of wage determination. [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true!]] Look at what happened with the energy prices, Mr. President. There, the increase to the Community level has led to a very high price increase: electricity prices have increased by 20 percent and gas prices have increased by more than 20 percent at EU level. Now, that's when we let go of the right to make a decision. We raised our eyebrows, perhaps several, because it is your party that may be the only one here who campaigned against EU membership when it took place. A thousand campaigns have been made against him, and it is your party whose representative has burned an EU flag, and we also remember the speech that he closed, and I quote: "We swear on the god of the Hungarians that we will no longer be members. That's what you said. By criticizing an EU decision, the same year he also said that Hungarian sovereignty had then been severely attacked, so Hungary should leave the European Union. [[11.20]] Or I could mention a quote from 2013 when you said that you were very confident that Hungary would leave the European Union as soon as possible - you said that you would leave the European Union and join with your real brothers. Tell me, who are the real brothers of the Hungarians? We unwittingly remember your quote about who humanity's last hope is. By the way, Mr Z. Kárpat, who is also sitting here, has also written a book on the European Union entitled "EU Council," in which he argues against membership. Now, from here we started to launch an initiative that would ultimately take powers away from Hungary, based on wages. Because, let us not be mistaken, raising wages at Community level would also draw tax policy and much more, and from this point of view, your speech can also be seen as taking part in the national consultation. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Of course, I'm not sure that was their original intention. Dear House, Despite Jobbik's political chameleonism, I think that raising wages is our common goal; the government wants to achieve this primarily through tax cuts. Therefore, employers' taxes decreased from 1 January. These contributed to a 15% and 25% increase in minimum wage and minimum wage for skilled workers, followed by further increases next year, if you support them. I would just like to say to you, honourable Members, that the man who has spoken on your behalf now, when we had to vote on tax cuts here in this House, did not support it. These are the tax cuts that can increase wages. Just to mention a few: in these months higher wages can be expected from higher education researchers, minimum wagers - they have been mentioned - teachers, doctors, nurses, firefighters, soldiers, policemen or even employees of state companies; and I mentioned only a few. If I wanted to list all the raises, it would be very difficult to do that with one breath. We know that there is still much work to be done in Hungary on wages, but the result is that real wages in Hungary increased by more than 10 percent compared to a year ago. This is more than a month's salary. If someone asks if the Jobbik could have done this, just look at the situation where Jobbik governs. Take a look, say, Tisavasvári. Here, unemployment is double the national average, and that is not all, because the budget of the better model city says that civil servants are not getting a wage increase, whereas their own salary has been increased by a third. Here we go... Under better driving, there's a much better chance that people don't have jobs, and the better guys are gonna raise their pay faster than anyone else's. This is, by the way, a major hypocrisy that could benefit any socialist billionaire who organised a hunger march. Mr President, In their speeches on wages, you often consider Hungarians from work to be slaves. I think this insult is scandalous. So I would like to ask Jobbik that when Hungarians are qualified, they do not try to extend their own political status to others, because in that case the use of the word "slave" is indeed justified. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, Member of the KDNP Group, also spoke before the agenda, with the title 'The opposition on the party of aggression'. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2017-05-22-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, in the nearly thirty years since the change of regime, we have experienced several times that the left, the current opposition, is in favour of aggression and intimidation. We on the right will never forget that in 2006 during the Prime Ministership of Ferenc Gyurcsány, peaceful protestors were beaten on the streets by police. Nor did Ferenc Gyurcsány ask Tamás Portik, the most feared figure of the underworld, to help discredit the right in exchange for a variety of significant advantages, as well as the fact that he was one of the prime minister's most important trusted men, Sándor Laborc, who was then supervising the secret services and who was now convicted of espionage. So cooperation with the underworld, intimidation, aggression - that's what characterized socialist governments. However, the behaviour of the left has not changed after the change of government in 2010. In 2013, the students of the Student Network funded by György Soros broke into the Fidesz headquarters, pushed the door in, broke his glass, and pushed the workers there. As we see that the elections in 2018 are approaching, we can also see that the opposition will continue where it left off in the last election campaign. Apparently, there has been a campaign rehearsal in the last few weeks, coupled with aggression again. Here in Parliament two weeks ago, Congressman György Szilágyi threatened me with physical violence just because he didn't like what he heard about Jobbik, his own party. It seems that this behavior is not against President Gábor Vona, because he has not set any sanctions against his fellow party since then. Last week, something happened that hasn't happened once in the last 25 years: the president of the Momentum, recently formed as a party, broke into Origo's editorial office last week and questioned the author of the article about his party on the portal. All this because the portal published a paper dealing with the fact that the majority of the leaders of Momentum came from the world of university student self-governments, and in their activities they took serious money to the detriment of students. For example, in the article, the prizes paid at the same time were 700 thousand forints to a momentous person who led the student self-governments during the scandalous ELTE stork camps. These young people, whose only political achievement so far is to take away the dream of the Budapest Olympics, said that they would change politics. So that's the idea of young people with shiny eyes, democracy and freedom of the press about how politics works. Imagine what would happen if such people came to power. At the same time, we can also see that the weakness of opposition parties has caused the left-wing press and civilians to act, but aggression is also mandatory for them. We can remember that left-wing journalists publicly offer candelaber to hang their right-wing journalists on community portals. Márton Gulyás, civil activist - whatever this job means - threw paint at the Presidential Office of the Republic. Of course, his follower was quick to do the same to the House of Terror. The paint you threw was right through the face of the victims of terror. Those who think that they are exempt from compliance with the law just because they do not agree with Fidesz-KDNP's policy are wrong, because that is not the case in the rule of law. The opposition, and the dissidents and journalists who sympathize with them, think that aggressively attacking the Fidesz-KDNP policy and the government is good for them. I must disappoint them: it is not good for them and it is not good for Hungary. By questioning and ignoring the obvious results achieved by the Hungarian people, the country is not getting any further. If all this is even accompanied by aggression, then they are only questioning their own democratic commitment. We believe and see political competition as such, that it is a good tool to bring together proposals and visions for the future of Hungary in a regulated form. If politics is about clashing these visions, there are only winners: the Hungarian people and Hungary. However, the events mentioned earlier in recent weeks highlight the fact that the opposition, without a real proposal and a vision, is only able, more than anything else, to shout, personalize and intimidate power. We don't need this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2017-05-22-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. Fellow Members! You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-22-13	Honourable Congressman, The expression that it has been unprecedented since the change of regime, a little clichéd here in Parliament, has been used for a lot of things, but it is really difficult to bring up any example like last week when the head of the Momentum broke into the editorial office of an Internet portal and questioned one of the journalists in a nagged, mannered, hand-crawling style. The underlying reason was that the journalist wrote about the academic benefits of the momentary leaders, which he did not collect, but a portal on the left had collected earlier. We wonder why those who, by the way, yell at every stray sheep cloud that freedom of the press has ceased in Hungary remained silent after the incident. [[11.30]] Why have the anointed activists of freedom of opinion not alerted the Brussels institutions? Why did you miss the usual left-wing petition dump? All I could afford was a couple of relativising articles. What would they have done if even a local Fidesz municipal representative had done the same? This case proves two things. It proves, on the one hand, that the inscription "SZDSZ" shines far from the egg shells of the Momentum, and it also proves that the opposition is really resorting to aggressiveness to climb out of the deep pit. Dear House, We can all remember that Mr Hadházy, whom we welcomed here in this House, compared those who disagree with him to worms on 15 March. We can also remember that Bálint Magyar dreamed of revolution during the same period. Aggressive words become aggressive actions. This is how the Alexander Palace and the House of Terror were thrown, which is particularly outrageous because it commemorates people who gave their lives for freedom, and also for freedom of the press. This is how in March, the activists of Peter Juhász were also attacking a journalist and insulting the reporter of his public television. And the already-sung momentary leader could say that these things happen. There's no shortage of aggression on Jobbik either. Now I will allow a representative of Jobbik to call me on a neck date two weeks ago, there has been enough talk about it, but it is worth recalling the other cases, because in his party there is one who spit on the monument of the Jewish Holocaust, and we can also find a representative who would have listed people of Jewish origin who pose a risk to national security. There is nothing more to be expected from a party for which Kuruc.info was the spiritual Evening Star. It is worth a special mass in this respect, by the way, the MSZP. From the point of view that every bush and every bus stop had seen a fascist, and now they don't say a word. In fact, in the House Committee, they even support a better representative who threatens violence. Ladies and gentlemen of the Opponents, We know you're not in an easy position. But it would be very good if their own division, their own weakness, and their thoughtlessness were not tried by aggressiveness. As much as we thought of last week's momentary action, we are not at the time of the Council republic. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-22-14	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of Group, Fidesz Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. How far can the medicine roll away at the EP? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2017-05-22-15	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, That there is a very serious terrorist threat in Europe, perhaps no one will question it. But the hundreds of victims who gave their lives innocently because the European authorities, the European policy, did not listen to what they said and did not do everything to protect the people of Europe. Now, last week, the decision of the European Parliament, which speaks against Hungary, contains a quite shocking part, to which attention must be drawn, because it carries extraordinary dangers. Literally, in the document published in Hungarian, it appears in the Hungarian translation:. During the judicial procedure, Syrian citizen Ahmed H., residing in Cyprus, was sentenced to 10 years in prison, simply because he used megaphones to resolve the tensions and threw three items at border guards. Let's see what this is about, because at the first moment this stupidity can be a smile, but it is a much greater danger. This man was legally convicted in Hungary by the Szeged Tribunal for the commission of acts of terrorism and other extremely serious crimes. Once again, the independent Hungarian court condemned and found the charges well founded. According to this, Ahmed H. tried by force to force the police to allow migrants on the Serbian border to enter Hungary, organized illegally, through megaphones, and threw stone at the police line and entered Hungary illegally. You should know, the press also said that Ahmed H. had seven different passports at the time of his capture. Once again, Ahmed H., the simple migrant, had seven different passports, and they all had Schengen visas. In addition, the police informed that Ahmed H. is a member of the Islamic fundamentalist organization Tablighi Jamaat, and, in addition, after his family had been legally in Cyprus for more than 10 years, he was legally entitled to enter the Schengen area. So we are dealing with a man who was not at the Röszke border because he could not legally enter the Union, after all, he had seven passports - all Schengen visas; passports of different origins - and he could have done so legally because he could have done so through his family who had been legally residing in Cyprus for 10 years. If there's even a little good intentions here, it's quite obvious that with 7 passports - a strange question in itself - why a person needs 7 passports - he can do that easily. It is clear from day to day that the final judgment of the Szeged Tribunal must be accepted at least by everyone. But it is also clear that terrorism does not appear, of course, as people wearing heavily armed T-shirts with an Islamic State label appear at the border, but, of course, in strict division of labour: there are those who fire the crowd; there are people who can legally enter the territory of the Union, but that is not what they do; there are those who are involved in throwing police officers; and, of course, there are those who want to urge and force the Hungarian authorities to let the masses of illegal migrants enter the border. One of these people was convicted. It is extremely irresponsible for the European Parliament to condemn those countries which try to stop and stop terrorism in such cases and try to detect and act against the various agents of terrorism. If the fight against terrorism is not sufficient for certain left-wing European political forces to put aside party-political approaches, then I must say that it is the European Left that is a real risk to the security of Europeans, because it is even clearly fighting for people who are legally convicted of terrorist acts, only to fulfil its political intentions. This is outrageous and unacceptable! [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-22-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-22-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, As you can see from your speech, we are once again living in weeks of increasing political pressure on Hungary, and indeed, this process is accompanied by the European Parliament's decision, which now includes a reference to Article 7. That this is nothing more than political pressure, not only do I think so, but this is also what Tibor Szanyi, a representative of the socialists, said. There are a number of scandalous circumstances in the case of the resolution adopted. One is, let us start from here, that this decision was supported by Hungarian left-wing representatives. Thus, the Members elected to represent Hungary are paid for, and supported, the adoption of the decision to attack the country. Just to be aware of the facts, all MEPs of the MSZP voted in favour of the resolution that attacked Hungary. Moreover, the parliamentary decision is scandalous not only because of its circumstances but also because of its content. Among other things, it is because it protects an illegal immigrant who has been convicted of attacking Hungarian police officers protecting borders with stones. It is good that all MEPs and left-wing representatives who support the resolution know that attacking policemen in Hungary with stones is a crime. And it's not okay for someone, whether it's a politician or anyone else, to apologize for such an act. [[11.40]] By the way, the decision stated that the immigrant was sentenced to 10 years in prison simply because he used megaphones to resolve the tensions and threw three items at border guards. Let us note here that the three so - called objects actually meant stones. They attacked the police with a rock. This is what political corruption does when it conceals the essence and tries to relativity crimes. Let me continue the line. This decision also attacks the legal border closure, so one of the most important EU institutions is still trying to weaken Hungary's defence capabilities, while the risks of uncontrolled immigration are already evident to everyone. The decision also provided for the preparation of another report, and we could also say that the Tavares 2 report will be prepared, and since this will take place one year before the election, it is no exaggeration to say that this could be an open intervention in the Hungarian electoral struggles. However, more and more Hungarian citizens stand up for the government's policy, this is also demonstrated by the fact that, according to last week's summaries, 1 million 560 thousand people have already participated in the national consultation, which is just about issues where Hungary, the Hungarian government, has a tough debate with the Brussels institutions. The record participation also proves that the left-wing attacks on the consultation have failed spectacularly. This is no wonder, for whoever knows the Hungarians knows very well that they do not allow decisions to be made above their heads. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-22-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Ákos Hadházy, Member of the LMP Group, also came forward before the agenda, with the title "Association for Abuse." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-22-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's a very bizarre thing to talk about today, a bizarre plan, which will be a hungaricum, if it really happens, it's the plan of the retirement unions. Before I talk about this, however, I am forced to deal with a completely unrelated matter, because I am almost certain that when one of the State Secretary responds, he will bring a completely different subject; whatever we talk about, whatever we say, the government will always talk to his boss or members of the government, at the direction of his boss, about good, good, but we do not have to deal with it, we do not have to deal with the facts, let us steal, because if the opposition comes, then millions of refugees will come, and it will let millions of refugees in. The opposition has only one task: to allow millions of refugees under pressure from abroad. So, unfortunately, I have to start by saying that this is an obvious lie, and from you saying that, the facts that we claim are true and stop. The justification of this pensioner cooperative is quite amazing and bizarre, because one of the reasons for pensioners' cooperatives is one of the most cynical reasons when it is said that this is good because there are great traditions of cooperatives in Hungary. We know that cooperatives have traditions, we know how cooperatives were created at the time. There has also been some depression in the cooperatives, but unfortunately, in the recent cooperatives, I am not very sure that I would recommend referring to traditions. Such a cooperative is the cooperation of Flórian Farkas, the Bridge to the world of work, which promised to bring 8,000 people to work. In comparison, virtually none of the people were put to work, and there were a few ten people in the center, not Roma people, but they received a lot of money, millions of forints a month. The government has also acknowledged what this is about; it wants HUF 1.6 billion back; otherwise, much more money has been spent on this program. This was also a cooperative, but there is another form, and this is the form of social cooperatives, which we have found in recent weeks a lot of rough things, and we have had to tell you a lot of rough things. The social cooperative is theoretically a very nice goal. A social cooperative would be about disadvantaged people getting together, creating a circle of self-help, volunteering without any kind of pressure, and these people trying to help themselves with what they know how to do, adding up, and practically trying to help themselves together. On the other hand, the social cooperative itself has become synonymous with fraud in Hungary, while there are obviously social cooperatives that really work. The great tragedy of these cooperatives is what happened to this method. Social cooperatives can save contributions and social cooperatives can receive EU money. Compared to this, we see that one of your representatives, Roland Mengyi, is already being prosecuted because he has contributed to the networking of social cooperatives. He wanted to arrange for 700 million forints of EU money to network these social cooperatives. In the end, they didn't dare give it to him. Nevertheless, we found networked social cooperatives. We have found 300 cooperatives organised by the same person, or at least the same auditor, and in these 300 cooperatives, the same 15 people - not sure if they are very disadvantaged - are working, regardless of whether this is in Borsod or, say, Szabolcs. But if I just told you what the name of these social cooperatives is, it could be a very long time, and I could give you half an hour more beautiful. There's always Tennis Social Cooperatives. It is virtually difficult to imagine that it was created by disadvantaged tennis coaches, or the Hungarian Sailing Social Cooperative, disadvantaged by the Balaton sailboat, and there was such a thing. Or Nimfai of Care Social Cooperative, which, we hope, is only doing what is written in it, because it is supposed to be a beauty salon, but it may not be so humorous, but there is such a thing as Applied Research Social Cooperative; we can imagine a disadvantaged researcher more. We expect nothing less from retired social cooperatives, as pensioners' social cooperatives also plan to receive huge contributions or to receive huge EU funds. There is a great danger that this is nothing more than exploiting pensioners, providing cheap labour to assembly halls, and taking these funds away from Fidesz MEPs. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-22-20	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Cseresnyés wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-22-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, I do not know who can express credible thoughts and sentences on this subject, and you or the members of the government, when trying to respond to questions or suggestions you have asked, because you have accused us, you can say, of asking a question, and we will start talking about something else. You said that you wanted to talk about retired social cooperatives, pensioners' cooperatives, and there was everything here, but there were maybe two sentences about that, but maybe three. But how do I react to what you said, let me remember one of your side strokes. If you object to the claims that you otherwise support migration, and you deny it, here declaring this in a sentence before Parliament, then I ask you, if that is true, then please tell me why you support the intentions, the submissions which others in the European Parliament otherwise submit as submissions. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's not a dialogue genre.]] So I think it's another credibility issue, for example, that I'm saying something, and then I'm doing exactly the opposite of what I'm saying. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Back then, let me say a few words about the retirement cooperatives. It can be said that in Hungary - thanks to God, we can now say this in a positive sense - employment has increased to such an extent that we are also talking about labour shortages in certain areas, in certain professions and in certain geographical areas. There has been serious competition in the labour market. Old-age retired people who want to participate actively - even though they are retired - in the labour market, should be given the opportunity to give this activity and to provide this activity in the labour market in some workplace. There are two options: pensioners can still be rehired, but there they enter into contracts with a private person, an employee, where certain contractual obligations have to be assumed, but in a cooperative, they do not conclude contracts with a person, but with a cooperative. The cooperative shall ensure that a given job is carried out with whom. If you are not aware of this when you make your criticisms and critical sentences about a speech, I suggest you look at it, read the submission, look at the goals that this cooperative has set for you and how it works. If you do not believe in the sentences you write - because I see that you are always looking for negative things in every step, in every sentence, which is spoken by the governing parties, or by the government at the very moment - then look at how student associations work, how the student association helps hundreds of thousands of students to complete their scholarship or the money they receive from home in order to provide their studies as smoothly as possible financially. [[11.50]] If you study this and you can say that it works smoothly and that it can help many people - it can help many students to work within the student cooperative - believe that this form of pensioner-cooperative will also fulfill the expectations that have been attached, and many tens of thousands, we hope, will give even more old-age pensioners the opportunity for a longer or shorter period of time, even in a weekly and shorter period of time, to complete their pension. Not to mention that the knowledge they have accumulated over the decades can be returned to society, and they can do useful work, because not everyone wants to spend their retirement years playing chess, playing cards, gardening, but the knowledge they have accumulated wants to give back to society at work within the framework of useful work. If you look at this draft law from this side, I believe that the Member will also have a completely different opinion on this idea. I hope that it will change its persistent negative attitude over the next period, and sometimes it will also be able to see positive results and positive goals. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-22	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to present the list of speakers after the agenda.
u2017-05-22-23	Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; István Szávay, Jobbik applied for a speech after today's agenda.
u2017-05-22-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now, at 11:52 p.m., we will begin to discuss questions and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Gábor Bellozó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question: "What is the real will, why do you have to kill CEU with its 1440 students and 980 teachers and employees? It's an address. By answering this question, Prime Minister Péter Szijjártó has appointed Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade with responsibility and competence. At the request of Minister István Ájgyártó State Secretary answers the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-22-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, According to the high-risk higher education law, a foreign higher education institution can operate in Hungary only if it has an interstate contract to support its operation in principle. The Prime Minister therefore asked Kristóf Altusz, a Deputy State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, to conduct diplomatic negotiations, and Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó said that the Hungarian Government was open to negotiate with the federal government of the United States and is ready for any consultation with the Central European University. Last week, instead of being equipped with decision-making powers, the CEU leaders met bureaucrats and middle ministerial leaders, and Kristóf Altusz, appointed for international negotiations on foreign universities, was not present by the government. Dear Secretary of State, Demanding the US to send federal negotiators is about as stupid as the United States or the CEU demanding that they negotiate with Brussels instead of Hungary. None of this makes any sense, given that education in the EU is a Member State competence, as is the Member State's competence in the United States. So I'd like to ask you what Prime Minister Christopher Altusz has been doing for the last two weeks. Did they order you to force an Orbán-Trump meeting? Especially considering what's happened over the past few years, I think they're backing everything up, just not that it's gonna work out for you. After Putin closed the University of St. Petersburg in December 2016 with a law similar to the one you put on the table, and that you have passed a civil law that matches your civil law proposal in several paragraphs, and then you did the national consultation with a Yandex code, giving all the data to the FSB, the Russian secret service, do you really think you're going to be able to force an Orbán-Trump meeting through the CEU law? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-05-22-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Arrowmaker. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-22-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Kristóf Altusz, Prime Minister, contacted the Heads of Mission of the four countries, the United States, China, Malaysia and Thailand in Budapest in the week following his appointment. The first draft text on the agreement has already been delivered for the Chinese, Thai and Malay higher education institutions operating in Hungary. Thus, the work is moving forward in a well-oiled way. With regard to the United States, the Hungarian government has been waiting for the official response for more than three weeks, and for more than three weeks there has not been a chief negotiator appointed either at federal or national level, so the negotiations are conducted exclusively with the US interim agent in Budapest. The expert working group shall consult all relevant universities. Experience has shown that apart from CEU, every rector or dean considers the issue technical, does not treat it as a political matter, and wishes to comply with the Higher Education Act. They're interested in finding solutions. The Prime Minister's representative does not have the authority to force the Prime Minister's meeting in this capacity, as you have said. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-28	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy:. To whom, what and why was the NAV released last year? It's an address. Congressman Gábor Staudt has the floor.
u2017-05-22-29	Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, In recent days, the press reported that the National Tax and Customs Office gave up a claim of HUF 637 billion last year, which is justified by the fact that it no longer expects it to be recovered, these debts certainly cannot be recovered in the future. This fact was also published on the basis of the data contained in the 2016 Tax Office's yearbook. If you look at the previous years, in 2013, HUF 57 billion, HUF 70 billion in 2014 and HUF 157 billion were released in 2015, i.e. in the light of the figures, the amount of debt waiver is constantly and greatly increasing. In addition, it should be mentioned that last year the NAV launched half as many liquidations as in 2015 and in these companies the tax debt amounted to HUF 208 billion. It is also important to note that the HUF 637 billion released last year would have been public money, i.e. it would have been if it had been recovered at all. Based on the above-mentioned facts, it is legitimate to ask what justified the waiver of a record debt at the NAV last year. I would also be interested to know exactly who is entitled to decide on these matters, or I could ask you who will bear political responsibility if, after a change of government next year, skeletons fell out of the closet and it turns out that buddy companies were also released from debt that would otherwise have been collectible. In this, I ask for a substantive reply from the Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-22-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-22-31	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, For the National Tax and Customs Office, the XLIX has been in place since 1991. bankruptcy law allows the institution to waive the claim. However, the National Tax and Customs Office has not lived with this for many years, until in 2014 there was an amendment to the law that allowed claims to be removed from the register in the event of failure to implement, since these claims, in which there is essentially nothing, are zero returns and, at the same time, the management of their records, the taking of recovery measures to the National Tax and Customs Office were a significant cost. [[12.00]] After 2014, the State Audit Office also carried out an investigation. In March 2015, the report was completed, and it was also clear that the tax office had to deal with these claims, and it is impossible that it would only increase the requirement for claims which cannot be expected to be repaid year after year. As a result, since the new regulators came into force, the accumulated claims in 2014, 2015 and 2016 and pre-2014 were described by the National Tax and Customs Office in basically in 2016 in the case of companies in liquidation. That is why this has become a significant amount compared to previous years. As far as your political comment is concerned, if you are so keen to investigate the disappearance of public debts, I suggest you start with János Volner's faction partner, the companies your groupmate sold to the cemetery and then continue the investigation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. János Volner intervenes.]]
u2017-05-22-32	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy and Bernadett Szél, representatives of the LMP, wish to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, who pays the price of the Paks delay? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, János Süli, the minister responsible for the design, construction and commissioning of two new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, will answer the question. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-05-22-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, As I'm sure you know, the Paks expansion is quite late compared to the original schedule. The environmental permit is one year old and the site permit is a one-and-a-half-year slip, otherwise there are very serious problems with both. The environmental permit is being sued for obvious shortcomings because, for example, a far from bagatell matter has not been dealt with as to how questions about the prevention and consequences of a possible nuclear accident can be solved. It's kind of out of clearance. And there's the site clearance, and the hydrogeological investigation was omitted, without which the whole story is ridiculous. From here on out, I see that you are trying very hard to push forward with this investment. Now they want to tender, pretend everything's going all right. On a written question, I asked specifically how many permits are required and how many are there for the current Paks investment. I am very interested in your reply. If you have a moment, Minister, I'd appreciate it if you didn't wait 15 days and send me the answer faster, because many of us are sitting on needles in this country to find out how this part of the project is doing. There is the amendment of the nuclear law, which, in my view, allowed the National Atomic Energy Office to circumvent, but there is also another serious problem, according to which certain production and construction phases may begin before the permits are issued. We have press information that the European Commission has found this to be contrary to EU law and has obliged the Hungarian Government to change this. I'd be happy to hear you deny that or confirm that. In any case, my current question is basically about the fact that we can rely on such leaked information in relation to this investment, and we see that if the investment is the continuation of a reasonable delay for the Hungarian party, then the Russian main contractor general contractor Rosatom is not obliged to pay a penalty. Please inform me in a completely explicit way of who is wearing this investment due to the delay. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] different financial burdens if the project is delayed because, for example, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] they want to force it out of the direction of the Union to minimise security risks on the part of the Hungarian party.
u2017-05-22-34	Thank you, Congresswoman. It's a two-minute window. I'll brief the congressman. Dear Parliament, Minister János Süli will answer the question. You have the floor, Minister.
u2017-05-22-35	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, At my hearing, we offered to continue our dialogue on this matter, because it's more complicated than rebutting each other here, and in fact I don't have the opportunity to do so today either, in the absence of this dialogue, only to be able to deny all your questions to you. We are ready to sit down, not in a two-minute and five-minute question, but in a much longer debate and dialogue, and I am also taking this opportunity today, that if you want to live, then we will be happy to start this briefing and dialogue with you, and then we will have more time to avoid such mutual rebuttals. You could look into the contract, it's a fixed-price contract. He saw the substance of the contract, which is a guarantee that the Russian party will build the power plant within a deadline and within a given financial framework. You mentioned that there was a delay in the authorisation process. We have two final permits. For anyone to challenge any permit, there is a legal guarantee, but this is not a limitation. So both the environmental permit and our site permit are final, and this was clearly prepared according to the required laws in Hungary, so in the framework of public hearings, where I said you were involved, you asked the questions and received answers, and this public hearing took place with eleven countries, where we successfully completed it. No one wants to change the powers of the National Atomic Energy Office, the National Atomic Energy Office is still doing its work world-class, and we would like to see this work done at the same level in the construction of the new block. Thank you for your attention, and again, please support our work. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-36	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erik Bánki, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister for National Development:. What domestic support did the government support the energy saving efforts of the population? It's an address. Congressman Bánki Erik has the floor.
u2017-05-22-37	Mr President, Dear Minister, At the time of post-2010 governance, domestic and international climate change issues have been effectively represented from the outset, and I would like to congratulate you on this. This is due, among other things, to the fact that we are at the forefront of greenhouse gas reduction in terms of the minimum emissions per capita within the European Union. The 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, as agreed in the Paris Climate Convention and also provided for by the European Union, has already been approached compared to 1990 levels. It is a well-known fact that the so-called fossil energy-based energy use is strongly correlated with greenhouse gases, most notably the amount of CO2 emissions. To the best of my knowledge, in accordance with the rules of the European Union, a specific part of the CO2 quotas may be held or traded by the government, which it can sell on a properly regulated market in the Union. The Ministry of National Development is entitled to use 25 percent of the revenue from sales in a legal manner. The best investments in greenhouse gas reduction include improvements in energy efficiency and renewable energy use. These are particularly important if they contribute to a more optimal use of energy for the population and also reduce the cost of household allowances. Not to mention their contribution to the success of the domestic and international cooperation on climate change mitigation. Mr. Minister, In connection with the above, I ask you what domestic support the government has provided for the energy saving investments of the population. In what form and with what results was the Ministry's share of the resources obtained from the CO2 emissions quota? What have been the main achievements in recent years? With what developments and proposals has the government helped families to invest in energy saving, and what plans do they have for the next period in this area? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Minister Miklós Seszták answers the question. You have the floor, Minister.
u2017-05-22-39	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government supports Hungarian families from quota revenues with programs that make household energy consumption noticeably reduced. From these sources, we launched the "Home Gay" programme in 2014. Popular applications have so far enabled the energy modernisation of some 120 thousand households with a budget of HUF 23 billion. The successful programme will continue in 2017, with an additional HUF 5.6 billion for the new basic programmes coming up this year. The basic programme for the heating modernisation of family houses and condos was announced in March with a budget of HUF 3.5 billion. [[12.10]] In this notice, grants may be claimed for the installation of a new condensation boiler, additional costs of boiler replacement, with a maximum of 40 per cent of the eligible gross costs, but not exceeding 700 thousand forints. Applications will be submitted by electronic means from 6 July 2017. The basic programme for the replacement of large household appliances with energy savings was announced a few weeks ago, with a budget of HUF 600 million, a cooling-freezer or washing machine, a washing machine, a maximum of HUF 25-45 thousand may be requested for a non-refundable grant. In August, applications will be submitted by electronic means at different times per region. We would like to launch another basic programme this year: we will ensure the replacement of outdated gas convectors for a budget of HUF 1.5 billion. We can say that a household can save up to 20 thousand forints by replacing outdated large machines, while by modernising residential buildings it can save 150 to 180 thousand forints for its annual expenses. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-22-40	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office a question: When and how much do you intend to raise the salary of civil service workers, which has been unchanged for nine years, and which has not been increased once since their governance? It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary will answer the question. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2017-05-22-41	Thank you. Dear House, Mr President, Mr. Secretary. It is also well known to you that the salary of civil service workers was set at HUF 38 650 in 2008, which is also HUF 38 650 in 2017. This means that in nine years the salary base has increased by zero and zero percent, i.e. the civil servant or government official has not increased his salary base by a single HUF in nine years. If we add inflation that can be measured in nearly a decade to all of this, we must see that it has lost nearly a quarter of its value. Since the first election following the change of regime in Hungary, from 90 until the previous government cycle of 2010 and 14 led by Fidesz, there has been no precedent for not increasing the amount of the stipend in the public service. It seems that we have slowly reached the end of the second government cycle, led by Fidesz, where the amount of the salary is not increased by one forint. The worrying situation is further shielded by public service workers, as the statistics published by the Central Statistical Office in the days show that net wages increased by 10.7 percent on an annual basis in February, which represents a 7.6 percent increase in real terms. In this case, too, it should be pointed out that inflation is expected to be 2.4 percent this year, so wages are expected to lose this percentage of their current purchasing value. Dear Secretary of State, I ask you, why haven't they been willing to raise the salary fund in the public service for a decade? When and with what increase in wages do you intend to pay people employed by the state in the public service, and why does the government save on its own workers? Thank you very much.
u2017-05-22-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés to answer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-22-43	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to point out that the government is implementing the salary increase for public service workers in the framework of public service career programmes, and there have been countless examples of this in the last year. But before I mention these, I would like to tell you that the state of income of those employed in the public sector wants to settle the government step by step, in line with the performance of the economy, taking into account the equilibrium of the budget. We do not want to see a situation such as in your time that they promise and perform almost unfulfilled tasks on credit. As the economic situation thus allowed, wage increases were started by the government, not in its own home, but in those areas that it considered more urgent for public services, i.e. in education, health and social care. In the next wave, we started to settle the salaries of law enforcement and defence workers. It should also be pointed out that wages are generally increased within a multi-annual programme in each area, such as the increase in the salary of health workers already started in 2012 and the government decided that the sector should have a timetable for further wage measures until 2019. The government, of course, does not forget the people working in the administration, because that is what your question was about. It is very important that significant steps have been taken to improve the income situation in this area without increasing the salary base mentioned by the Member. For example, the salary of officials with higher education qualifications in district offices has been increased by an average of 30 percent, the average of two graduates by 50 percent, and the average salary of case managers by 40 percent in recent years. In the second step, on 1 January 2017, employees at the county level of government offices became state officials, so from that date the entire government office staff, more than 36,000 persons, received a salary increase. So you can see that the government is gradually giving rise to an increase in salaries. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-22-44	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: When does the Government intend to raise higher education scholarships? It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor.
u2017-05-22-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, since your governance since 2010, there has not been a positive shift in higher education scholarships, so the amount of these has not changed, but their real value has fallen significantly over the last decade. In addition to increasing consumer prices, higher education students have been extremely affected by the drastic increase in housing costs in recent years. Due to the insufficient number of college seats, this creates a serious social gap, since with such a low-funded scholarship system, only those from a wealthy family can afford to move into a tenant. In addition, it has recently been found that Csilla Kertész, a member of the management of Fidelitas in Salgótarján, received a state scholarship on two occasions with a monthly grant of half a million forints, occasionally for nine months. Instead of allocating my brother-based student grants, we would like to see a performance-oriented, transparent scholarship system in Hungarian higher education, where everyone is supported on the basis of their educational results and social status, not on the basis of which government party or association they belong. Instead of stalling now, Jobbik believes that they should deal with the proposal of the National Conference of Students' Local Governments, for example, to increase scholarships by 40%. In our view, this is extremely urgent before the adoption of the central budget for next year, because it is absolutely necessary to provide the right resources for it. On this basis, I ask Mr Secretary of State when the government is finally planning to increase higher education scholarships. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-22-46	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-22-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The draft budget on Parliament's table and discussed last week also contains significant extra resources in the field of higher education, more than HUF 6 billion. This gives him a PhD student scholarship, a national higher education scholarship, not only for wage increases, or for job fees, asset management or college development tasks. But since 2010, we have also tried to do as much as possible to give more support to those who need it socially, so who now has a more difficult financial background, I am sure that he can also obtain a social scholarship. But we also tried to encourage students with many other forms of support. The National Higher Education Scholarship was raised from HUF 340 thousand to HUF 400 000. We have created the new national excellence programme in 2017, so this year it includes HUF 4 billion, which awards the outstanding research and creative activity both in initial training and in master's and doctoral training. This amount can amount to between 75 thousand and 350 thousand forints per month. It is important, what the Member said, that dormitory seats should be renewed or created for students. This is why last December we adopted the national college development strategy for higher education. [[12.20]] In the framework of this, we develop accommodations that meet the needs of the age, renovating 123 dorms, involving 37 467 seats. There are new seats, 4000 new rooms with 8000 new seats, and there are 12,000 rooms to be renovated, 29 000 to be renovated. Overall, we spend 192 billion forints on this by 2023. And that means the scholarship mentioned in your question, this is the Petőfi programme, which is open to all; it is a programme of the Kőrösi Csoma programme, which is very successful for the sporadic Hungarians, in the Carpathian Basin. Encourage as many young people as possible, whether they are connected to parties or not, to participate in this, and help to keep Hungarians in the cross-border sporadic. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-48	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Bence Rétvári, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. What road improvements are expected in the area of the left bank of the Danube turn? It's an address. Congressman Bence Rétvári has the floor. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári is going to replace his representatives. Definitely. Intercoms from the opposition.]]
u2017-05-22-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear House, I am pleased that everyone is happy about these developments, as it is particularly important for people living in the area of the left bank of the Danube bend, for local transport, daily commuting of workers in the capital, for tourist traffic and transit traffic. It is important that a person goes to the cities, villages, the Highlands or to the Börzsöny part of the Danube, to reach his destination quickly, without the burden of the local inhabitants and the environment, or with as little load as possible. There is traffic, thanks to the increasingly sparkling Vác, the nearby Budapest, the tourist attraction of the region and the border crossing of Parassapuszta. It is no wonder that people here would all like to be better acquainted with the measures to improve the road network in the region. The M2 motorway and Highway 2 connecting the capital with Vác and the border crossing of Parassapusta are particularly important. It has been a great step forward since 2010 that more and more sections of the E77 road have been extended to two lanes twice. It is a special pleasure that all this has been done to protect the environment, the water base protection areas that have been designated in the meantime. However, at present 13,4 kilometers of length between the capital and Vác are only twice a single band. If these were to be extended, it would at the same time make it possible to reduce the transit flows of the settlements along the Danube and to make faster and safer progress by those on M2, including thousands of people commuting to work every day. It is equally important that hikers from the capital and other parts of the country, and even from Slovakia, the Highlands, easily, but without disturbing the calm and transport of the inhabitants of the region, reach the uniquely beautiful resting places on the Danube coast or discover the beauty of the Börzsöny. We know from the government's programme that its continuous and high priority is to improve the road network. It provided some HUF 3000 billion, mainly from home sources, which could mean a renewal of 1,200 kilometers. Can people in regions expect other developments involving lower roads and the development of M2? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Minister Miklós Seszták answers the question. You have the floor, Minister.
u2017-05-22-51	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The development of the Budapest-Vác section of the M2 motorway is an investment in the government decision setting out the government's mid-development plans for the period up to 2020. The contract was signed in February this year, and the contractor took over the work area in April. The completion of the project is planned for 2019. The preparation and implementation of the cross-border phase of the M2 Vác-Hont-Parassapuszta is included in the medium-term plans. The preparation of the Vác-to-border phase is underway, and we have started negotiations with the Slovak party on the planned load capacity of the bridge. The implementation is expected between 2021 and 2024. New border connections are also planned in the region, the preparation of the construction of the Ipoly Bridge between Ipolydásd-Helemba is underway, and we plan to start construction by 2018 and complete it by 2020. In the case of the bridge between Drégelypalánk-Ipolyhídvég, the project is being prepared and planned. Plans for authorisation and expropriation of the Őrhalom-Ipolyvarbó bridge are being prepared, and implementation is expected to start in 2018 and be completed in 2019. The transport situation in the region will not only improve in the coming years as a result of road investments. After the renovation of the Vác railway line and the railway station, the first-floor motor trains will continue to increase the quality of fixed-track services by the spring of 2019. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-52	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy and Bernadett Szél, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why does the government talk about the budget of people living in work when they cheat workers? It's called the "I." Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2017-05-22-53	Dear Minister, If next year's budget were indeed a budget for people living in work, the government would not have postponed another year of public service workers' wage increases. John Lazarus evidently lost his credibility in the eyes of government officials, but let us see what other ministers have to say on this matter. Under the Law on State Officials, wages would have increased more rapidly: I remind everyone that in July 2016 at the district offices level and January 2017 at the county level and at the third stage, and from the beginning of 2018 at the central administration. This was pushed by a single stroke of the pen to 1 January 2019. This means that for government officials covered by the Public Service Officers Act, the government will virtually not plan a new career model or wage increase by 2018. They will not receive a salary increase for 10 years next year, which will mainly lead to an unsustainable situation for those with secondary education. Their wages have been at the level of the minimum wage for practically years, which for many years has been the state of labor poverty for them. The delay in the wage increase is only an outrage because, according to a recent government decision, some ministerial workers will receive an extra bonus for the paid EU: 36 months' pay, others 24 months' wages. Meanwhile, those who are not involved in spending EU money [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You're reading the wrong book. You're confusing it. He's reading another book.]] You can wait another year for a raise. While the government talks about people living in work, it does not implement the legal career and wage increase at all levels of public administration. This only shows that the government, or even personally, John Lazarus, is ignoring the work of government officials. He took away - I would like to remind you - the holidays, and now he's kicking them again. My question is very short and to the point: will you give the central government staff a career wage increase next year or not? Thank you for your answer.
u2017-05-22-54	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-22-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, There must have been some administrative problem in your faction, because you have asked question 15711, which will be discussed, which concerns the wage increase of paramedics and paramedics, and it will not end as you said, whether we will give the public service workers a raise, but whether or not you will give the paramedics and women a raise. It is possible that you have another question, which does not deal with patrons and paramedics within the remit of EMMI, but with government officials within the remit of the Prime Minister's Office or general wage policy within the remit of the NGM, but which your colleagues gave you when you came in here or what you picked up. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Will you answer me, Mr. Secretary, or will you not answer me?]] and by the way, what the LMP fraction has raised as a question is two completely different issues, honourable Member. Obviously, I'd be happy to answer the paramedics and the paramedics, because you've just read something else, because you've mixed up your papers, it wasn't the same question as the address and the recipient. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Secretary of State, are you in trouble?]] Congresswoman, your faction is in trouble because they're not giving you the text they're giving you that they're going to make, and they're not addressing that minister. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Tell me the paramedics.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Government of Hungary has taken a policy of wage increases both in relation to government officials and in relation to rescue workers as well as in relation to women in charge. On the one hand, he reduced taxes... Yes, here my fellow Members from the MSZP will explain to you how this should have been delivered in the stock shed. I could use some help. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Secretary of State, are you embarrassed? They owe too many raises!]] So, on the one hand, he tried to set up a wage increase programme for government officials, especially for those in the district office, who work directly with citizens and do their business and, on the other hand, for the paramedics, because the budget of the rescue service was significantly increased by this government, we raised it from HUF 17 billion to HUF 25 billion, and he also made a significant wage increase for the patrons, the sum of which is also more than 40 percent. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-56	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Nyitrai and Mónika Dunai, representatives of Fidesz, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources: What can rescuers expect from the Government of Hungary? It's an address. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor. [[12.30]]
u2017-05-22-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The health situation in Hungary is of paramount importance to all of us. At present, nearly 7500 rescue workers, including paramedics, ambulance drivers, paramedics, paramedics, rescue managers and workers in support of the activity are performing their services. Since 2010, the Government of Hungary has taken a number of measures to improve the situation and working conditions of ambulances. The measures have brought the expected results, as 30 completely new rescue stations were built in 2017 compared to 2010, 97 old rescue stations were upgraded and 496 new ambulances were in service. Increasing the financial and moral appreciation of rescue workers, improving their working conditions and developing infrastructure should be an important objective of the government. I think I should thank the whole of society for the fact that rescue workers consider saving our troubled fellow human beings as their calling for life, and we have been expecting their sacrifice for 130 years now. The Government of Hungary has set the goal to ensure that those who are doing their best work for the health of Hungarian people can move forward and be honored every day. To this end, in January the government launched a career model for rescue workers, which has led to the increase in the wages of rescue workers in several steps, while obtaining a number of tools. Dear Secretary of State, Based on the above, I ask you what Hungarian rescuers can expect in the near future. How is the implementation of the career model, and by what means does the Government of Hungary help the daily work of rescuers? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-58	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-22-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think there is a complete consensus that there is a need for wage improvement for those working at the Rescue Service. It is regrettable that the rescue service budget decreased by more than 5 percent before 2010, but fortunately, in the past and next year, we will have the opportunity to increase the salaries of ambulances noticeably. A paramedic's average wage in 2012 was 390,000 forints, which could rise from 390,000 forints to 645 thousand forints by 2018 thanks to wage developments - the general health wage development and the extra cost of ambulances as well. For rescue officers, the average wage was 242 thousand forints in 2012, which is also rising to 460,000 forints. It is important that these funds are included in the budget, as the Rescue Service has also increased its budget budget by HUF 17 billion in recent years, and it will also provide a surplus of HUF 4 billion in next year - which will cover a separate plus 10 per cent, a 10-per cent paramedic wage increase in addition to the general healthcare increase - with a total increase of 67 per cent in three years. We know that many of us obviously want to give them more, and we hope that further increases can be envisaged in the future through the extra performance of the economy. But even so, the budget of the Rescue Service has increased from HUF 22 billion to HUF 39 billion, so that is a significant step forward. It is also important to have the renovations, new station constructions, which are also mentioned by the women representing it, as 30 new rescue stations have been created and 97 have been renovated. It's important to get new ambulances. Over the next period, 200 new ambulances will be in service, and we will be able to replace the entire fleet of ambulances within a year. It is important to cover the cost of cleaning work clothes and work clothes, the preparation of which is also underway at OMSZ. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-60	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question. It's an address. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor.
u2017-05-22-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, the Orbán government has declared war on the chimney sweep. The chimney sweeping companies were first made impossible, later a law was passed that public customer care was taken over by public disaster protection everywhere. All this was falsely justified by making the household chimney sweep free, while it is clear that the free work could have been ensured without total nationalisation. Two years ago, in the debate on the Nationalisation Act, chimney sweeps were even pretended by the fact that monitoring and cleaning the chimneys of the public business consumers would continue to be a suitable market for them in the future. However, from the information disclosed by the trade union, it appears that they have lied again. According to the union's information, a new private business will suddenly emerge out of nowhere, which is surprisingly about to break into the market reduced to a fraction. The company is backed by professionals who believe that there are persons involved in state disaster management. In fact, the trade union can document the fact that disaster relief chimney sweepers work with resources acquired by the state for this private company entering the market. Knowing the fidesz pace, many suspect that taxpayers' money is now building a new business for their friends. This is how the tax forints become a private asset-rich profit, while other surviving businesses can close the store and lose a lot of jobs. I ask the Minister: has an investigation been initiated based on the information that has been made public? If so, please inform me of the findings of the investigation. If the investigation is still ongoing, please inform me of the date of completion. Or is the case considered worthy of a more thorough examination, or do they expressly approve of a new economic sector? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-05-22-62	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-05-22-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Since the restructuring of the chimney sweeping service and the creation of a free chimney sweep for the public, you have said so much, you have said so much, and you have come up with so much that it could be put together in a joke book. They started by not having chimney sweeps to do this job. They started by doing this job with public workers. They continued with no means to do so, no means to carry out it, and no means to perform it. I reassure the congresswoman that despite all the alarms, there are areas where disaster protection doesn't do chimney sweeps in the areas - and she doesn't know that, by the way, in all settlements, there are areas where disaster protection doesn't provide this service to the population on the basis of valid contracts, but everywhere - where disaster protection does the service, they do it precisely, premeditatedly, professionally. While citizens have said in virtually many places that chimney sweeping was nothing more than the collection of the fee, today we can see everywhere that the necessary work is being carried out by chimney sweeps. I can answer the question raised by you specifically that there is indeed a new undertaking, which has been fined by disaster management, because it has started its activities without authorisation. It has nothing to do with disaster management or with the state or anyone from the state sector to start this company. So it's not related to disaster management. I can also inform the honourable Member that the necessary inquiry has been carried out. Here you spoke in plural, but in one case there was a certificate for which the chimney sweeping officer, while doing the line work, then issued an invoice on behalf of a company that worked in a second job at the company. The procedure in this regard has been carried out by disaster management and such a case cannot occur. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-64	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy:. After the failure of the programme, the question is whether you really do not intend to support young entrepreneurs returning home, or are you simply unsuitable for this? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor. [[12.40]]
u2017-05-22-65	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In January 2016 the government launched the.. Entrepreneurship at home, young man! Its programme, in which NGM has not been able to evaluate a tender in six months. As a result of the Ministry's ruckus, young applicants are now in a completely vulnerable position. You feel almost déjà vu, because unfortunately the, come home, young! We have also experienced, as we have now, a total failure and, in the absence of any vision, the government denies the problem, the serious phenomenon of emigration, and does not take any further steps to solve the problem. The same behaviour of the government is reflected in the present case. The government entices young people with promises, but it cannot solve the problem, it cannot create a future for them. It is also significant that the Ministry of National Economy began to conclude grant contracts only after the problems were voiced in the press. Dear Secretary of State, Instead of immediately presenting a concrete and comprehensive solution, the government, its action or rather its additional action will be exhausted from the initiation of an internal investigation. This is typical of the government, we know this situation well: they'll look for a scapegoat to take the fall, and then everything goes on the same way. The thing is, though, the fish reeks of its head. What can we expect when the Prime Minister remains obsessed with denying the real cause and weight of emigration, instead of talking about adventure? Dear Secretary of State, The desire to stay in Hungary today is an adventure. You leave the young people alone, you have renounced the multitude of emigrants. Instead of supporting and putting ambitious young entrepreneurs in a position, they are just going to be knocked down and impossible. They suggest that it is not worth it in Hungary and that it is not possible to enter into business. Except if you're a member of the fraternity circle, because you're gonna make a lot of money. Dear Secretary of State, Do you really not intend to put young entrepreneurs in a position to do so, or are you just unfit to do so? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-22-66	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-22-67	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, He gave quite a shambles about how much the government cares about young people in general. However, I would like to remind you that in the last few years, in the last six to seven years, youth unemployment has fallen from nearly 30 percent to around 10 percent, and their employment rate has increased from less than 20 percent to almost 30 percent. So it should not be said to you, in relation to a question, that young people are not cared for by the government, that they are not trying to solve the situation of young people when it comes to their position in the labour market. By the way, their becoming entrepreneurs was also supported by this government. I would like to remind you that in this programme, which you have raised as a question, we supported the development of 1600 young entrepreneurs under the New Széchenyi Plan as a prelude to the TÁMOP 2.3.6 programme. Of course, this does not explain the problem of the current situation, but it must be said that increasing the level of employment, including becoming an entrepreneur, is very important for the government's work. For the Central Hungary region, specific support should be given to initiatives leading to the development of the local economy in order to promote sustainable development, the reduction of inequalities and internal cohesion, and such an initiative should also help young people in this region to become entrepreneurs under programmes. Do your business at home, young man. The aim of the programme is therefore to support new businesses in the region of Central Hungary. I would like to say that OFA Nonprofit Kft. On 4 October 2016, the organisation issued the first approved business plan, its approved document, a total of 211 such documents, and 67 aid applications were received. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , nearly one third of which has already been assessed by the jury, the rest is in the process, and, as you mentioned, an investigation is under way. We will continue our work by drawing lessons from this study. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy and Bernadett Szél, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: Title II. By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, will answer the question. Practically speaking, the question on behalf of the congresswoman, which relates to the II, is now being said. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-22-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I am very persistent when it comes to civil servants, so I would like to point out that if next year's budget were the budget of the people from work, you would not have postponed the salary increase for public service workers by another year. There was a plan that you did not comply with, according to the Law on State Officials, you would have raised wages at more pace: in July 2016 at district offices level, from January 2017 at county level, and perhaps from the beginning of 2018 at the central administration. These three will now be shifted by one pen stroke to January 1, 2019, and then believe you all. This means that for government officials covered by the Public Service Officers Act, the government will not plan a new career model or wage increase at all by 2018. For the tenth year, these people have worked for the same wage, which creates a particularly unsustainable situation for those with secondary education. Their wages have been at the minimum wage level for years. This has been the state of poverty for these workers for many years. By the way, we find this deferment to be outrageous because you have written a government decision, which has been adopted, and in this it is said that some ministerial workers have received a so-called extra bonus for the EU's paid payments, some who have received 36 months' salary, others 24 months' wages. Meanwhile, those who do not participate in this EU money distribution can wait another year to raise wages. What we see is that while you are talking about the people who live from work, you simply do not implement the careers and wage increases provided by the law at all levels of public administration. This shows that the government, János Lázár, and you, honourable ministers and secretary of state, simply ignore the work of government officials. It shows very well how they feel about these people, that they've taken away their public holidays, and now, by delaying the wage increase, they've got another kick in them. Dear Secretary of State, Will they give the central government staff a career wage increase next year or not? We're talking about tens of thousands of people. Please answer very clearly. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt applauds.]]
u2017-05-22-70	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés to answer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-22-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Our colleague, Mr Korózs, has already asked a question on this subject today, and I would not like to repeat the answer I gave him, so I would like to add a few more thoughts in addition - of course answering your question - in my reply to his response. The government's aim is to ensure that, as a result of an improvement in economic performance, workers can themselves, in a wider range, feel directly that the economic environment is developing. This means that, where and when possible, the increase in wages was promoted either indirectly or directly by the government; directly by the public sector workers could mean the increase in wages I have formulated. Accordingly, the 2018 Budget Law proposal ensures, on the one hand, that significant wage increases have been made to date in public education, higher education, health, social, cultural, armed and police bodies, judicial bodies, the tax office and government offices. Last year and this year, the entire government office staff - more than 36,000 people - received a salary increase. The average rate of salary increase in district offices was 47 per cent and 31 per cent at county level. The salary increase was differentiated, resulting in the highest rate of wage increases for medium-term officials, i.e. those having a final exam and having direct contact with customers. In the case of government officials employed in the central administration, the government proposes that, as you said, the salary should be paid in the framework of the career programme, one year later than the date previously planned for the beginning of 2018, as from 1 January 2019. Of course, it should be mentioned and emphasised that individual ministries and other relevant institutions can make use of the possibility of reimbursing salaries under the current conditions. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and other options of financial incentives, such as, in principle, these material ones, are available when it comes to raising salaries for individuals. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gábor Varga, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture: å Has the situation of small and medium-sized family farms improved in Hungary? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[12.50]]
u2017-05-22-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The balanced development of our country requires mutual cooperation between the city and the countryside. The key to the development of the countryside is to put Hungary's small and medium-sized farms in position. Small and medium-sized family farms are the ones that can increase the preservation of the countryside, which can provide more jobs for locals, which can provide healthy domestic agricultural products and food to the surrounding population, which can ensure our country's food self-determination, which is open to environmentally friendly forms of farming on a human scale, and which are the basis for the strengthening of rural communities. Over the last six years, domestic agricultural output has steadily increased, including exports which have increased significantly. The land for the farmers! As part of the programme, nearly 200,000 hectares of land were allocated to local farmers, about 30 000 had access to land and land lease applications were also successfully completed. During the time of the left-wing governments, very unfavourable changes have occurred in our country's estate system. The socialists represented the interests of foreign speculators and large owners. We also remember how the Socialists played private hands among many other state assets, for example, the oldest state estate in Europe, the Mezőhegyesi Ménes estate. It was the socialists who would have allowed foreign companies to buy up the land estates in Hungary, thus removing the land that is the foundation of the future of the countryside from the feet of Hungarian farmers. Dear Secretary of State, In this regard, I ask you, the measures taken by the civil government have set the goal of maintaining the Hungarian land in domestic hands, strengthening the countryside, putting small and medium-sized families in position: has the situation of small and medium-sized family farms improved in our country? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-05-22-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State, Mr Bitay Márton Örs wishes to answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-22-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, we can say, based on objective statistics and figures, that the share of family farms, medium and small estates in Hungary has increased. These are very slow and difficult processes, so there is no change in the type that would be very large in the language of numbers. When we started governance in 2010, the proportion of large economies and small and medium-sized economies in the agri-economic sector was about 50-50 percent, and this has now changed to around 60-40 percent, so there is a quite significant shift here; which was not simple and also referred to by the Member. I would like to highlight one important point outside the Earth Programme, the new earth traffic law. They were talking about almost half a million hectares, which were areas covered by pocket contracts, and it was expected that if the new land traffic law did not enter into force, these areas, these pocket contracts, would come into the hands of foreign investors. Compared to this, we can see that I can report to you that such land purchases have not occurred, that pocket contracts have been returned to the account, that they have tried to register a beneficial right, but the new law has also deleted it, giving this opportunity only to close relatives. So one of the great results is that these production areas remained in Hungarian hands. The other great achievement is that we managed to complete the earth's program. There are over 30,000 customers in the state land sale program. In particular, I would like to point out that over 40,000 hectares have been purchased by young farmers from all areas, and that the same proportion of land lease applications, where more than 60,000 hectares are available to young farmers only. He also mentioned Mezőhegyes. I am very pleased that you have been resuscitated as a model farm, and I hope that you will also shine in the old light of the farmland. I would also like to mention a very important number: employment in the sector has increased by 30,000 in five years. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-76	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Where will gypsy music be from rural csárdas? Why don't you support rural performers? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély should take the floor.
u2017-05-22-77	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I hope you got the right paper and you'll give me the right answer. Recently, a tender was launched so that various catering facilities could employ Roma performers. There is only one problem with this: only in Budapest, while in many rural towns, settlements, the culture of Gypsy music is cultivated. Many tourist centres have been excluded from the support facility. If they were serious about helping performers, they would have put out applications in the main places in the country. Recently, my colleague László Teleki has raised this problem. Then Mr.Péter Hoppál, State Secretary, replied that a sample program was launched and that the tender was indeed only for the organizations and catering units of Budapest. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] One of my questions is what this sample program is. What's that supposed to mean? That the pattern in the countryside will be that the live music will cease peacefully, feel free to go somewhere else, even abroad, and play music there. Other places are happy and happy to employ gypsy performers. For example, it was recently found that the Hortobágy csárda, which is part of the world's heritage, no longer has live music, has been used by performers since this year. A tradition more than 200 years old has ceased to exist on Hortobágy. If it were very important for you to preserve traditions, to cultivate culture, then the government would not allow one of the most important tourist destinations to play folk music from a machine rather than continue to provide this 200-year tradition. You know, Secretary of State, about machine, gypsy music, in the Hortobágy csárda - I think I've told you everything. I ask the Secretary of State when this problem will be solved. I hope you'll say that if today and tomorrow again, like 200 years ago, Gypsy music will be live in the Hortobágy csárda. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-05-22-78	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-79	Thank you very much for the floor. The congresswoman read a correct question because it was what was given. We are talking about a non- marginal issue, which I think is worth dealing with. Sometimes the MSZP could colour its speeches by saying that to remedy the problems it raises, what it has done in its own time. But let me get to what we did, because it was very important that the Gypsy live music, which is played locally by musicians, should be implemented in as many places as possible in Hungary. We have taken more steps to do this. One of the first was in 2012, when we reduced the VAT rate of live music to 5 percent, as cheap as possible. When people live in a csárda, a restaurant within the meaning of the hospitality, they pay the lowest possible VAT rate. But this is also the case for family events or community events without admission fees. And from next year, from 2018 onwards, we have proposed that a corporate tax benefit can also be used for Gypsy music, live music. In Hungarian, if a person employs Gypsy musician to play live music in the restaurant or in his csárda, then he can write half and 50% of the remuneration without VAT from the corporate tax; this means that in three years, he can write up to HUF 62 million. So every year 20.6 million forints can be used from corporate tax in a way that allows the csárda, the restaurant, to have live music every day. These are tax reliefs that exactly help gypsy bands and others to use live music in as many places as possible. We do have a sample program that you're referring to, which we've just launched. This supports Gypsy orchestras in 12 prestigious restaurants in Budapest during the summer season. The musicians get it directly and not the restaurants, so that this amount doesn't go away. He was a very prestigious jury: István Pál, Szalonna, Ferenc Sánta, Ferenc Radics, Kálmán Tóth. They all contributed to this success. If this is successful in Budapest, we will also take you to large rural cities, Congresswoman, because this is a very important issue for everyone else. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: But this is a small settlement!]] Small settlements, too. But the VAT exemption, the minimum VAT rate is national. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, notary of the National Assembly, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development if there will be any support for the additional costs of the subway. It's an address. Here you go, ma'am. You have the floor.
u2017-05-22-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As is well known, according to the government's previous decision, it would support the renovation of Metro 3 with a commitment of 138 billion. Even at the time of this decision, it was clear that this framework did not cover the whole of the implementation. It is enough to think that the cost of so-called bus replacement, as well as the renovation of subway cars, will require another ten billion. In any event, the reconstruction of the network cannot be delayed any longer, so the capital has announced the procurement procedure for the execution twice in a row. In fact, at the first tender, prices were 50 percent higher than expected. [[13.00]] The reduced technical offer for the second round is much more favourable, but still 30 billion more than the capital could afford. Unfortunately, we can't be surprised if everyone is immediately associating with Voldemort's constitutional costs. At the same time, it is a fact that the increase in entrepreneurial prices also justifies the capital's transfer of responsibility and additional costs to future contractors, in any case. And all of this is indeed a significant risk in the knowledge of the technical infrastructure in a dangerously degraded state. Therefore, it is not possible to delay metro renewal because it would only further increase the astronomical costs of construction anyway. Dear Secretary of State, The network of Metro 3 carries about 150 million trips annually, so its safe operation is literally a matter of life. If the government doesn't help their capitals, the renovation may fail, and this could have unforeseen consequences. That is why, in order to help the Government with its legislative work and decision-making, we tabled an amendment to the Budget Act, as it is clear from the draft budget law that there would be plenty of funding. Dear Secretary of State, Please give a clear answer: will there be aid for the additional costs of the subway? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-22-82	Thank you very much, notary. The answer will be given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-22-83	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government has repeatedly signalled its commitment to renovating metro line 3. This has been confirmed several times by our earlier decisions. The four high-value public procurement procedures for the construction of Metro 3 are underway for the reconstruction of the tunnel and the renovation of the stations. The project's implementer, BKV Zrt. On 11 May 2017, it opened the tenders received for the EU open procurement procedure. Once the ongoing evaluation of the tenders has been completed, it becomes clear whether or not funds are needed for the implementation of the project and, if so, for what amount. In answer to your question, I would like to make it clear that the government will provide all the help of the capital in the event that actual funds are needed for the implementation of the project. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-22-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: what are the criteria for the Government's decision on what to make a priority investment in the national economy? It's an address. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There is a word that investments are of major importance for the national economy, and a law was set up in 2006 to make the implementation of public projects financed by EU support faster, simpler, more uniform and more efficient. However, the Fidesz government has managed to customise, so to speak, this exceptional institution by making a lot of changes. Today's use is long ago not characterised by national interest, but only by working on their own pockets, and the Fidesz-neighbors are in fact removing major legal obstacles to investment. I would like to give you a few examples, where it is incomprehensible why, for example, a cheese production plant, the establishment of a packaging centre, the reconstruction of a cattle plant, the construction of a málenkij robot memorial place, the expansion of the production surface of a koser foil tent, has become a priority investment from a national point of view, or, for example, the construction of a hotel of Turkish interest in downtown has become such an investment. A total of 228 such investments were declared between 2010 and 17 and were very similar and of major importance. It is completely untraceable, and we do not understand the reasons for the government's decision whether an investment will receive this honorable name and all the privileges it entails. The question is whether there is an objective set of criteria. This could be done, for example, in the case of job creation above a certain number or expected high tax revenues, economic development and innovation benefits. But at the moment, we see that, in the face of a grudge, if it is in anyone's interest to avoid legal obstacles, they do so. So the question is, what are the criteria?
u2017-05-22-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-87	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, you rightly said that there are more than 200 priority projects in Hungary today. This is also proof that the Hungarian economy is functioning, and the first quarterly growth data show that this rate is reflected not only in figures but also in actual investments. I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that he misses the criteria, but if he draws up this 2006 law, which you have called for, then you can see these conditions clearly. Basically, in connection with two types of investment, the government can decide to support these investments in a priority procedure. The first is when a development is linked to the maintenance of a prominent national memorial site, the protection of monuments or, where appropriate, investment in a world heritage site. This is the first category to receive such a priority status. In the second category, investments related to economic development and job creation were basically made after the crisis. It is also important to say to the public of Parliament that this priority procedure does not constitute any legal or financial exemption for investors. They must comply with the same legal conditions as any other investor in the case of investment under normal procedures. The difference is that administrative authorities which have a duty of cooperation with regard to the priority procedure must take decisions more quickly and within a shorter period of time and establish their position on the investment. Among other things, the priority procedure includes the "Modern Cities" programme involving 23 county-righted cities. But let me offer here in front of the public of Parliament that, if you wish to receive specific information about any investment, you have the opportunity to ask it through the Prime Minister's Office, and you will receive it, from which, I believe, you can see that all these investments are of great importance in the national economy. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-22-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Teleki, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister for National Development: When will the bicycle route between Nagykanizsa and Zalakaros be completed? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-22-89	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would have liked it if Péter Cseresnyés answered this question, because he is a representative of my region, and it would be important to give him an answer as to when they will build those bicycle roads in South Zala that have been promised for a very long time, but we have never seen a source. It is also true that between Nagykanizsa and Zalakaros, the old M7 is designated as a bicycle route, which, based on the information received from the leader of the bicycle associations - and I am experiencing it - is simply untraceable by bicycle, as the surface of the road is bumpy, messy and bumpy, so it is dangerous and is not connected with a bicycle route that can be used by people who want to play sports at the end of the week or at any time. That is why it is very difficult to be South Zalan, because we see that not only in other developments, but even in the bicycle route, they are restoring what they were. I say that it will be restored, because the roads that were built on Kanizsa's way out, have not been maintained in the last five to six years, and even their consistency has become worse. Therefore, my question, Mr Secretary of State, is whether you wish to develop bicycle routes in South Zala, whether you wish to renovate the existing ones, or if you wish to find places that are busy because of Zalakaros' tourism, it is very important that visitors from Kanizsa are able to visit by bicycle. I think it would be very important for both sport and leisure to focus on the region of Nagykanizsa and to develop it, because otherwise nothing is expected in this region in the near future. That is why I ask Mr Secretary of State to answer whether they want to make improvements there, whether there will be a source to reassure the population of Canizsa. Thank you.
u2017-05-22-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Teleki replied to the question by State Secretary János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[13.10]]
u2017-05-22-91	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for asking, I have good news for you. The Government always prioritises improving the conditions for cycling and facilitating the expansion of this mode of transport. In recent years, several government decisions have been taken to prepare and develop tourist cycling routes, and we have appointed a special Commissioner to manage this area. The development of cycling infrastructure is also supported by an operational programme for territorial and urban development based on EU funds. In this context, the municipality of Nagykanizsa prepared a network plan for the municipality's bicycle traffic in 2017. He presented this to our ministry, so he presented it to us. The document pays particular attention to the bike route to Zalakaros along national road No 7511, up to the administrative border of Nagykanizsa. On the basis of the network plan for cycling, the city will have the section's cost assessment, technical design documentation, and will implement the cycle path by 2020 according to the current timetable. The Zala county municipality's winning TOP project will be connected to the construction phase, in which the bicycle route along the road will continue to be built until the entry road 75159 Kisrécse. This phase is expected to be completed by 2018. It is also built from a TOP source on the bike path from Kisrécse access road to the administrative border of the pigeons. We can get from pigeons to Zalakaros on an existing bicycle road, so with the implementation of these sections, nearly three-quarters of the remaining 11 kilometres are missing. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] will be completed in the coming years. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Why are you slowing down emergency care? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Rig has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, One of the elements of the new rescue management system of the National Rescue Service became the so-called IFT, i.e. the intelligent on-board terminal, with the aim of providing the information obtained from the caller by electronic means to the rescue team and replacing paper documentation. After many years, the necessary tablets could finally take their place in ambulances, and the system was tested. However, there were serious problems during the testing phase. According to the paramedics' experiences, the problems do not speed up work, but slow down the work of the paramedics. Many have complained about the quality of the devices, since they often freeze, quickly dive, and some do not even turn on. This is not surprising in the light of the fact that when they were purchased, they were not the most modern tablets, they were dusted in the warehouse for more than three years before they were used. Another point is that while devices are intended to transmit a lot of important information quickly, they are not suitable for this at present, only for data recording. It is also a problem many times that the tablets work with mobile internet, so when there is no reception, the devices become useless. Due to the shortcomings of the system, rescue workers record data on paper along electronic means, which causes a huge loss of time. There is also a problem that there are many diagnoses that are not everyday in Hungary, such as snake bites or kleptomania, but often used diagnoses such as stroke and collapsing are missing. So my question is: what are the current experiences of using IFT? And how do rescue workers try to solve their problems? Thank you, and I look forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-22-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-22-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This is an important issue, which is why it is worth dealing with here in Parliament, because previously there was a whole new rescue management system. This was done with HUF 4.1 billion in support, and we spent HUF 250 million on intelligent on-board terminals, IFTs. This new system, by the way, has to be said that it works continuously and reliably, because there is also a place where it works, there are 30 more rescue stations now than before, 97 more modern than before. So, fortunately, these places have better conditions for the paramedics. The software developed is suitable for running, these tablets are those that occur elsewhere in the tablet market. However, in the meantime, we always need new developments, which you have pointed out, honourable Member, so these new features are constantly being added to these tablets. The sharp deployment of these IFTs began at the beginning of 2017 throughout the country, while the National Rescue Service is obviously monitoring their use. What you said really occurred to me in practice was that there were mobile data connection problems, so in some places there was insufficient reception. Therefore, the system itself has been developed to operate in offline mode, so you can see precisely in the ambulance the data received during the telephone notification. After that, if there's a signal again, these data will be recharged, so it won't be lost to the rescue workers. As you have mentioned, the main aim of this is to replace documentation, to be digital instead of paper documentation, thereby reducing the workload for rescue workers and speeding up their work. Obviously, it is necessary to switch to this new mechanism of operation, but I think that if everyone is constructively concerned with it, it will be mostly positive for patients, because their data should not be transmitted, lost, data should not be corrupted, but digitally transmitted from the rescue management system to the ambulance and then transferred to the hospital. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Why is the Government playing Russian roulette with the health of the population? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, For decades, we have known that there are hundreds of contaminated areas in Hungary that threaten the health, soil and water resources of the population as ticking bombs. Even though a national programme for remediation was launched earlier, the Orbán government would rather spend taxpayers' money on stadiums and visual projects than on protecting people's health. At best, he's willing to do anything near disaster, mass protests and ex post, often at a cost and expense. This is also reflected in the draft budget for remediation for next year, even if we report EU aid. Not only is the government making irresponsible omissions in the disposal of previous pollution, but its authorities also turn a blind eye to the emergence of new pollution. The main figure of domestic chemical terrorism is the government itself. The Ministry of Agriculture and Interior records do not give us a clear picture of the most polluted areas in our country and the implementation of the remediation programme, even though the list is constantly expanding. Under Article P of the Fundamental Law, damages must not be allowed to disappear and to avoid liability. It is necessary to ensure that the polluter pays. Clear financial liability should be defined, secured or even insurance imposed for all activities involving dangerous substances. In addition, immediate action should be taken in the case of the Nail mines, Upper Tárkány, Sajóbábony, Gyömrő, Hortobágy, the Cséry colony, Kiskunhalas and many other areas concerned. Secretary of State, what can we expect? With reference to Article 4 of the Treaty, the injured must not be allowed to disappear and to avoid liability. It is necessary to ensure that the polluter pays. Clear financial liability should be defined, secured or even insurance imposed for all activities involving dangerous substances. In addition, immediate action should be taken in the case of the Nail mines, Upper Tárkány, Sajóbábony, Gyömrő, Hortobágy, the Cséry colony, Kiskunhalas and many other areas concerned. Secretary of State, what can we expect? (Applause from the lines of LMP. )
u2017-05-22-98	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The Secretary of State, Mr Bitay Márton Örs, will answer your question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-22-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for mentioning such an important issue here in Parliament. I would like to reassure you that the government fully agrees with what you have said about your question, that we should not allow the victims to disappear, and that those responsible should get out of harm's way. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the damage mentioned and the damage that you have not mentioned, but we know that there are some, these are due to the era of intensive socialist industrialisation, there are decades of delays, and unfortunately - I do not think I will disappoint you, but let us be honest - even our children and grandchildren will deal with the negative effects of the damage. However, a budget of HUF 232 billion has already been used in the national environmental remediation programme. The damage points you mentioned were also known to the authorities. In addition to identifying pollution, the eradication of pollution has already started in several cases. In the Cséry plant, the compensation was started using a budget of HUF 140 million, and in the Hortobágy area a significant part of the remedial measures were completed with budget support of HUF 400 million. [[13.20]] Here it is very important that these ex-Soviet properties of solid mineral mining, MÁV, road, defence, water and other sub-programmes will also be able to eliminate these impurities. It is also important to stress that the national budget has increased in recent years, with a budget of HUF 10-15 billion a year in the last six years. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the operational programme for environmental and energy efficiency, which is only related but has a role to play, has allocated more than HUF 25 billion from EU funds for these purposes. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, Have you completed the two-week deadline for oncological investigations? It's an address. Congressman István Tukacs has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I firmly believe that the government does not have a health concept, instead it is either brainstorming or firefighting. It was a form of ideas when they talked about paying more health contributions if you didn't take part in screenings, so came up with the idea of a lump sum health contribution for everyone, the idea of a pensioner, and such was the announcement that oncology tests would have to be carried out within two weeks of suspicion of cancer. The problem, however, is that these tests are carried out, where they are not carried out, where they are not carried out, where there is capacity, where they are unable to perform them within two weeks, so they are pre-registered, in Hungarian: this is a list of entries. Dear Secretary of State, I'm asking you this because there's alarming news about the booking lists in general. As I mentioned once, I saw with my two eyes the paperwork on which a mammographical examination was scheduled for a year, a year, which means that if there is a problem, God forbid those who have a problem, don't give me a cancer disease. I am also asking you this, Mr. Secretary, because from time to time you must be confronted with what is happening in health care. I have listened to your reply to Congressman Rig, how can I say that he has not fully explained all the details of these tablets. Mr. Secretary, they've been resting in warehouses for a long time, but - closed in parentheses - why were they there? So, I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, because everyone should know what's really going on. Let me give you another example, not from a health area. You are pleased to report that the first language exam will be free until the age of 35, but one thing you have forgotten to add: if the language exam is successful at first, it will also be written. So I asked him specifically about the case of oncology, and I'm waiting for his answer. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-05-22-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the question raised by the Member will be from Secretary-General Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-22-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Our government not only formulates proposals, but also adopts legislation and can put additional resources behind the legislation. This year's budget, as you know, is about HUF 170 billion more than last year's budget, this is half of GDP, this is the additional resource, the additional resource that health can manage this year. In comparison, the withdrawal was clearly the case before 2010. As for the care of cancer patients, it is indeed a very, very serious issue and a serious problem. Today we spend 180 billion forints, which means that we spend 60 percent more on treating cancer patients than Hungary spent in 2010. That is why we have also made the legislative amendment that says, I quote literally:. In the case of clinical suspicion of malignant cancer, the CT, MRI provider must perform the necessary imaging diagnostic tests within 14 days of the date of issue of the referral. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. According to this rule, 7695 cases of CT and MRI have been examined in the past period in accordance with the 14-day rule. Obviously, there may be other documents, and it would be good to have them in a transparent national electronic system, such as the waiting list register - this is the future, even for the subscription to be included, the waiting lists were introduced by this government - but there was no request that the service provider required territorial care could not keep this number. It also has incentives, not only for normal payments, but also for an additional settlement of HUF 18,000 for those who carry out the examination within 14 days of the referral, and the diagnosis has been confirmed, and it has also been introduced if they are able to carry out the diagnostics with another regional service provider. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] it's still calculated from the original native TVK. We have also tried to expand with the EFOP 2.2.10, which gives us billions for diagnostic improvements, just like in the previous EU development period. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 13:25. That's the end of the question. We're moving to immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Congressman Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. New challenge? It's an address. The President appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or waits for the President to be present and asks for his answer personally.
u2017-05-22-105	Mr President, Thank you very much for the opportunity. I'd like to wait for the President. Thank you.
u2017-05-22-106	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you and this House that the President will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Congressman Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Who was the contact of the Voldemort crime association in your ministry? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the Minister for his answer in person.
u2017-05-22-107	Mr President, On the basis of the documents of the Attorney General's Attorney General's Office held in my hand, the Minister must answer the questions I have asked personally, his involvement cannot be bypassed. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-22-108	Thank you very much. The Minister must reply at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question:. We are well aware of what is coming and what is not? It's an address. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-109	Thank you very much for the floor. I am pleased that the Minister is here personally, so I can ask my questions face to face. [[Dr. Miklós Sheszták: That will be difficult!]] The Minister is the Minister responsible for the supervision of state assets and energy policy, which includes all state companies, even energy companies. If you're looking for data in the public interest, you start asking for data, and you want to see what public companies are spending their money on, you've seen shocking numbers over the past few years. Since the change of government, you've had one task: small-time buddies, giving newly created companies billions of forints to buy media, sponsorship, advertising, just to make it better for them. Then let's look at some of the amounts that really make a man, as they say in the country, the knife opens up in his pocket. If you just look at it as MVM Zrt. In 2015 he spent only 208 million forints on advertising and in 2016 2 billion 696 million forints, which landed in the pockets of friendly companies, such as Árpád Habony's Modern Media Group Ltd., XT Media Kft., which was created only at the end of November 2015 and was already killed in advertising activity in 16 years. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: TV2? New firm?]] Only companies that are among your friends receive support. And then let's just keep looking at the numbers. Deputy State Secretarys who have already been replaced, Fidesz party presidents have been paid to organize festivals, I think this is outrageous. You're the Minister of State wealth, not for the state's wealth to be plowed home by friends. That is why I ask the Minister: is it okay to manage the state's wealth this way? I've got a lot of numbers, and I'm very happy to confront you with these numbers in the long run.
u2017-05-22-110	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister Miklós Seszták. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-05-22-111	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I don't know how to do this, it's hard to answer face-to-face because our seating chart is so, you know, the camera... [[Lajos Korózs: Saddle! Turn!]] [[13.30]] So, first of all, I would like to inform the congresswoman that since 2010, the MVM Group, which you have also named, has been pursuing the same theme. [[Zoltán Grimlock: With tenfold money...]] in terms of sponsorship, as before 2010. [[Intruder from the benches of the MSZP: Jesus!]] Certain companies under direct or indirect ownership rights of the Ministry of Development perform statutory tasks, as the issue concerned not only the MVM but also the entire public sector. There are companies that carry out their activities using their own income and, accordingly, establish their own rules of operation, provision of services and even participation in society. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Why the Habony? Why Vajna?]] their role. The congresswoman mentioned MVM, Magyar Tram Works Zrt. I would like to make it clear to everyone that this large company receives its revenues from the market and covers its operating costs from its own resources, so that this company does not receive any public funding. [[Interviews from the benches of MSZP, including Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We thought it was a state company! The president's ringing the bell.]] The company's net budget contributor, the MVM group, paid more than HUF 130 billion to the Hungarian budget in 2016 in various taxes and fees [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: Non-State company...]] He closed last year with over HUF 48 billion in taxes. Dear Congresswoman, I ask one more thing... colleagues, by talking and yelling at me, one, you will not achieve anything; two, you will not know the point. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I just want an answer!]] I'll tell you in return. [[Zoltán Pride: Bravo! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Worth an answer! Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-22-112	I would like to ask Congressmen Grumpy and Bárándy to hold back a little while longer, if possible, until the answers are answered. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes.]] A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Anita Heringes, please.
u2017-05-22-113	You know, Minister, in order to look me in the eye, all you had to do was turn around. He didn't do that, even when he answered. Just because these companies make their profits on the market doesn't mean they're 100% state-owned. And now I'm going to confront you with the reason why I don't believe in what you said. At the ministerial annual hearing, he told me, literally, that: From 2016 onwards, the Hungarian State does not pay sponsorship to Veszprém. There's a reason they don't call the team MVM Veszprém now, and we're not paying sponsorship from this year. And then I get in public interest data request that MVM paid 170 million forints, I suppose, because they were obliged to. Minister, I hope not for long. [[Deterioration in the benches of the governing parties.]] But what I can tell you is that no one has done as much damage to Paks and his region, to the associations, to the sport, to the people, to the population, to the people who work there as you and your ministry. Please get off Paks, don't pay us all your friends, every company, every deputy secretary of state and Fidesz president. We're not gonna accept this, we're gonna fight for it. Thank you.
u2017-05-22-114	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister Miklós Seszták for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2017-05-22-115	Just one sentence: at my hearing, I said that from 2016 MVM did not support any football or handball... [[Anita Beringes intervenes.]] I continue to support this. Veszprém is the handball team and from 31 December 2016 MVM [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: What kind of team is CÖF? Deterioration from the benches of the MSZP. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: COF for 100 million...]] he didn't give me any handball support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-22-116	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Apáti, the representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "You may not believe this any more." The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Miklós Seszták to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts Minister Miklós Seszták as a reply or waits for the Prime Minister to be present and asks for his answer personally.
u2017-05-22-117	I have another question, which I specifically submitted to the Minister for Development...
u2017-05-22-118	Congressman!
u2017-05-22-119	.......................................................................................................................................... I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister on this matter. Thank you.
u2017-05-22-120	Thank you very much. I only inform you because according to the rules of the house, there is no addition; yes or no, this is actually the reality. Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. What remains after the lack of prospects? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel nodds.]] The congressman indicates that he accepts Mr Tállai as a replyer. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-05-22-121	Mr President, Dear House, Terrifying statistical data and forecasts have come to light that after seven years of Fidesz-KDNP registration, hundreds of thousands, more than 300,000 people plan to emigrate from Hungary for a longer or shorter period of time. Unfortunately, the long-term emigration and the desire to return have become characteristic, at least. In the light of these terrifying facts, the question arises as to how this government intends to handle at least one or two of the factors that stimulate emigration. My permanent comma parapa, as regards solving problems of home creation, Minister of State, we can safely call the material you have submitted to the budget of lack of prospects, since, in respect of the CSOK, up from the upper middle class, people from the most fortunate social groups are offered new discounts, and they come up with new ones, but the real needy, the members of the middle class, or perhaps the poorer people, are not given a rent-building program for example. It is not true what the Secretary of State also said during the budget debate that Hungarian people are so set on their own property. The fact is that there are so many and so many quality apartments that Hungarians simply don't have a choice; they either have a better way of getting their own real estate, or if they realize that in today's Hungary within 10-15 years, this is simply not possible, then they migrate from this country, try their luck elsewhere, pay taxes elsewhere. Mr. Secretary. So this is a completely obvious question - Jobbik experts have found hundreds of billions of vaguely spent resources in the budget - when, in what form, they are willing to launch a public-based home-building and rental-building programme that not only provides real-estate property, not only for CSOK, not only for the rich, but also for them, but also for every Hungarian citizen in this country. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-22-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as we have heard, will be heard from the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-22-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, let's look at the facts about emigration. The ratio is balanced: as many people leave the country for work, so many people come home while [[Delight, applause, and an intervention from the benches of the MSZP: The president's ringing the bell.]] recently, this dynamic is favourable because more people return home than they are leaving the country for work. [[Intruder from the benches of the MSZP: Wow! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: There are more people coming home than there are out there!]] You can smile on that, of course... [[Attila Mesterházy: You can only laugh!]] 'Cause it looks like the big opposition weapon, the big shot, has unfortunately vanished, and they can't keep shooting at the government parties. As regards the budget for hopelessness or the situation of the economy, [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Rent program!]] I think it doesn't take too long to put the arguments on the table, because they are clearly disproved. So I don't know what a hopeless situation is for a country that finally has economic growth above 4 percent. What is the lack of prospects for a country where real incomes increased by 11 percent in the first quarter? Why would the country where nearly 700,000 jobs have been created since 2010 be hopeless? Or why is it a problem that career models and career systems are being launched in the country? Or why is it difficult that, after the reduction of the rent, a real home creation programme can finally be launched in Hungary, with the increase of the minimum wage and the increase in income? [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I would like to hear something about this.]] I think that the government has taken all the measures in this area, which are typical of the fact that the lack of prospects is certainly not true. Instead, let's call it the budget of people from work, let's call the budget of hope 2018. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-22-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat, please.
u2017-05-22-125	Mr. Secretary. In order to preserve his own perceived or real peace of mind, I suggest that he do not say the same in this form in a residential forum. If you truly believe that as many people come back to Hungary as they have gone to work, you live in a parallel universe. [[13.40]] Minister of State, then you must call for the Stargate and teleport it back to the Hungarian reality. How do you feel about saying things like that? It's pretty amazing. According to current forecasts, hundreds of thousands of people are planning to leave this country. Secretary of State, 130-150 thousand forints a rent without rent in Budapest. What are you talking about? There is a housing crisis, housing poverty in Hungary, and he talked at 1 minute 50 of his two minutes about having a home creation program. Okay, I ask where the rent-apartment program is in Hungary, because there are about a hundred thousand people missing rent-apartments from this country, affordable prices for young Hungarians and Hungarians. Mr. Secretary, where is all this? I expect a clear answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-22-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. András Tállai, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-22-127	Thank you, Mr. President. One thing is certain: significantly more people from abroad are coming home compared to recent years, so this trend is definitely positive. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And as far as your rental program is concerned, instead, I think that the government party's home-building programme is a much more serious alternative. [[Noise.]] Mr. President, can't we create silence?
u2017-05-22-128	Yeah, I'm trying to discipline you right now.
u2017-05-22-129	The so-called COS programme has several parts, including the VAT rate of 5 per cent of housing sales reduction, introduction of tax refund aid, and this has a serious impact, as ten thousand homes have been built over the past year, which represents an increase of 31 percent. The number of building permits increased to 31,500, which is significantly higher than in previous years. A total of 42 400 families have already made use of the CSOK application for HUF 108 billion. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Yes, there is a solution in Hungary, and we are also moving towards solving the housing problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-05-22-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member István Ikotity, the notary of the Parliament, the representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: can it be governed without money? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Miklós Seszták to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding person or waits for the Minister to be present in the Parliamentary Chamber and expects his answer in person.
u2017-05-22-131	I'd like to wait for Prime Minister.
u2017-05-22-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Why is he good in the pit?" It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Miklós Seszták to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you, Congressman, do you accept the person of the response or the Prime Minister's - [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy: This is an important question, I'd like to wait...]] Do you mind if I go through with this? [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy: I'll allow it, Mr. President. Defiance.]] - asking for an answer in person. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-133	I would like the answer in person, Mr. President.
u2017-05-22-134	Thank you very much. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question, "Why are young people being bullied?" It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary for his response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you, Congresswoman, whether you will accept the person who is responding.
u2017-05-22-135	Yes, thank you very much.
u2017-05-22-136	Thank you very much. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian government has dealt well with young people who are still able to believe, returning from abroad. Started in January 2016 with the. Entrepreneurship, young man, at home! A program that promised 3 million HUF non-refundable support to young people who start their own business in Budapest or Pest county. In more than a year, 117 young people have been accepted into the program, but those who have entered the program may regret it forever. So far, aid has been granted to only five people, but none of them have yet received the amount needed to start up the business. They didn't get a penny. On the other hand, if a person has created, for example, a kft., the cost must be paid. It is not the first time, Mr Secretary of State, that the Hungarian state is making the lives of young people returning from abroad difficult. As an example, young people returning home have fallen from family support or were unable to return their children to school or kindergarten. In fact, the government deals only with attracting young people and keeping them at home at the level of bogus programmes. This is a huge problem, as thousands of young people leave the house every month and we are guaranteed to be a country without grandchildren. This isn't the first program to fail. Previously on LMP unveiled the cover of the... Come home, young man! A program that brought only 105 young people home. That's a long way from what the Secretary of State said. Dear Secretary of State, The LMP submitted a request for information to the NGM. We want to see in detail the elements of the programme that have been implemented so far, and we want to know the reason for the delay. Will the government be a partner in the investigation of the program? When will the payments start? Will there be accountability? - because cheating young people is the greatest sin. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-05-22-138	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I said, Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés will give the answer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-22-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Yes, it is a sin to mislead everyone, so I would appreciate it if you would be properly informed when asking questions. [[Rumble in the lines of the LMP. Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] And he's giving some kind of opinion on a matter, and he's asking questions either in an accusing way or at the level of interest. Why I'm saying this shouldn't be an outrage for Wind Bernadett, because I hope he'll admit I'm right. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Let me decide my own feelings.]] 'Cause Congresswoman Schmuck's messing with the 'Come home, young man. in the program of the, do your business at home, young man! With a program [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] The two programmes achieved two different objectives and had a purpose when they were set. It is also in his name, one of which was that, if we knew, we should bring home as many young people as possible, who would like to enter into business in Hungary, and the other, if you had listened, Congresswoman, or the women who would have listened to us today, that is exactly what I have been talking about in connection with a question about the fact that it was aimed at helping young people in the Central Hungary region. To answer the question of Congresswoman, after we have clarified what programme she wanted to ask, I just couldn't do it, so do it at home, young man! Within the framework of the programme, 211 approved business plans were examined and approved by OFA Nonprofit Kft. after the first round, and 67 of these 211 business plans received aid applications, since they had to submit the aid application, who wanted to apply for capital support. In this case, if submitted, for about one third of this [[Dr. Wind Bernadett, 21!]] a decision on support has been taken. After knowing that an internal investigation is being carried out in this case, of course, what you have suggested is that you are curious about the outcome of this internal investigation, you will certainly receive all the satisfactory information. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-22-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2017-05-22-141	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You can't even mix it up, because they're both inconclusive. The question is how many have been paid so far. Not a single one! It is no coincidence that Minister Mihály Varga promised to investigate the matter because something was very wrong. By the way, Secretary of State, we should stop these fake programs now, because they are, in fact, fake programs. Some young people or some entrepreneurs will get something at the very end. In fact, they don't help as many young people as young people leave the country in one month. The total amount of money allocated to these programmes is not as high as the cost of the water world in ten weeks or as much as Lőrinc Mészáros becomes rich in a month and a half thanks to the government. Secretary of State, we need a comprehensive programme, we need to increase wages in Hungary comprehensively, because if this does not happen, the next time it may not be about 370 thousand people. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] His research, his double.
u2017-05-22-142	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder.
u2017-05-22-143	Thank you very much. The fact that every young worker and prospective or current entrepreneur is important to the government is also proof, Madam Member, that we have involved about 80,000 young people in the Youth Guarantee Programme and that about 40,000 young people have been employed through this programme. Within the framework of the Job Protection Action, about 140 to 150 thousand young people have been employed and employed continuously, after which the amount of tax benefits can be measured in the order of billions. [[13.50]] In this... [[Z. Dániel Carpathian: He does not answer the question. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Answer the question.]] If you'll just be quiet for a moment, Congressman, and you don't yell at me, I might be able to answer the question. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: He just doesn't want to.]] Of course, these entrepreneurial programs have a history, for example, in TÁMOP 2.3.6., within the framework of the New Széchenyi Plan, we supported the development of 1600 young entrepreneurs by about HUF 7 billion. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and there will be programmes that will continue to help young people become entrepreneurs. Just like we've been doing, we're still gonna do it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Salacz, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. Migration is encouraged by the attackers of our country. How much longer can the Soros organization go down? It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State for the response. [[For signal:]] Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr Here you go.
u2017-05-22-145	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, While half of Europe, including Hungary, is trying to reduce illegal immigration by every means possible, some civil society organisations encourage people to travel through videos and propaganda films to support migration. Today, a small film on migration has come to light, presenting very negatively the Eastern Member States of the European Union. The European NGO Without Borders has produced this video encouraging migration, including with the support of the European Commission, the French Government and Fondation Hippocrène, and has been uploaded to the largest video-sharing portal in two languages. The screenplay of the video is recorded by Philippe Cayla, a columnist member of the Aspen Institute, which is also supported by the Open Society Foundation of Soros György. This short film is part of the full-time attack on migration by György Soros against Hungary. The billionaire uses not only the European Parliament's bought representatives, but also PR and communication professionals to achieve its immigration goals. It is also amazing that the European Commission, which is supposed to represent pan-European interests, supported the production of the video financially. Dear Secretary of State, The attacks and discredits on Hungary are behind our migration policy. In the light of recent events, we are not surprised by the international discrediting campaigns organised by György Soros, after the coming Soros report. Yet, the question arises as to how far these pro-immigrant organisations may continue to sink. The embarrassing campaign against our country is unacceptable, and we ask the government to continue to do everything in its power to protect our progress in immigration policy. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-22-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary is a country that trusts its own future. The fact that we are being attacked in Brussels does not distract us from our goals, does not change our goals. Hungary will follow its own path, as it has done, and will continue to do so. We want to tell you who we're living with, who we're letting into the country, who we're not letting into the country, which we're not handing over to anyone in the future. It is clear that more and more illegal attacks are taking place in Hungary, whether we are thinking of a threat to the acceptance of quotas or a new letter of formal notice from the European Commission, or of an animation film funded by a foundation of interest in Brussels and Soros. The Hippocrène Foundation is a nonprofit organization that carries out a number of joint projects with the Soros György Open Society Foundation. With this animation film, György Soros confirmed his migration programme that migrants should be transported to the Union in every way, even on magic carpets. It is clear that Brussels and the organisations funded by György Soros are working to break down the Hungarian fence, to eliminate transit zones, to repeal the laws protecting Hungary. Hungary is being framed in all possible forums, under international pressure, they are trying to force us to let migrants in, but we are still tearing down the fence, yet we are repealing the laws that protect Hungary, protecting Hungarian people, but they are also protecting the European Union. Honourable Congressman, Here, in the walls of this House, I would like to reassure you, this House and all Hungarian people that the Hungarian Government protects Hungarian people, protects Hungary, protects the European Union. We do not give in to any pressure, we do not break down the fence, we do not eliminate the transit zones, and we do not repeal the laws that protect Hungary. The Hungarian people can count on Viktor Orbán's government in the future. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It's good to hear that. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Salacz. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-149	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply. It can be seen that the European Commission and Soros are working together on European migrant imports. The migrant aid cartoon, which promises to travel to Europe on a magic carpet, was financed by the European Commission, the French Government and a Soros-supported organisation. Migration is behind the attacks on Hungary, and there is a European community of interests whose aim is to import hundreds of thousands of aliens to the continent every year, partly financed and organised by György Soros, and these forces are extremely determined. We must stick to the Hungarian national interests, because we want to tell them who we want to live with and who we do not. I am glad to hear that the attacks do not divert the government from its goals, Hungary will continue to pursue its own path. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a one-minute rejoinder, Secretary of State Károly Kontra has the floor.
u2017-05-22-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, On 2 October 2016, 3 million 362 thousand Hungarians refused forced resettlement. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You mean the unsuccessful or unsuccessful referendum?]] It was a clear answer to which the government is holding. I would also like to say that, in the context of the current national consultation, significant support is given to government migration policy, more than one and a half million people have returned the consultation sheets. [[Interventions from the ranks of the MSZP: Public servants were required! Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] In order to strengthen it, they will support the government's policy. Mr. President, please give me the opportunity... [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2017-05-22-152	Congressman Bell.
u2017-05-22-153	... that my fellow Member, Zoltán Gőgös, should not be struck by the Guta, I do not want his responsibility to be borne on me. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: He didn't say a word! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You didn't say anything this time! The president's ringing the bell. Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-05-22-154	I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: He didn't say anything!]] I am warning Mr Tamás Harangozó, because he was the interjector, and I do not want to warn him again, because I will do so. So I'm asking you to try and be patient and listen to the Secretary of State. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It's heavy!]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-22-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, So I would like to reassure you and the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian public, that the government will continue to protect Hungary, the Hungarian people, and stick to its migration policy. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Tamás Bell Clap: Yay! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman, I warn you once again of this frivolity. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: I didn't say anything. You're not even allowed to clap? Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Dear Parliament, Gergely Bárándy... [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Congressmen, what happened to you? Why don't you take some tranquilizers? [[Defiance.]] Congressman Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question, 'Does the Public Prosecutor again have a bias? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, On 3 September 2015, the NAV signed a classified document to the Minister of EMMI, Minister Zoltán Balog, and a criminal proceeding was also brought about. The Minister learned of this from Anikó Farkas, the Chief of Staff, who was instructed by the Minister to show this document to Deputy State Secretary Tamás Köpeczi-Bócz - in the same Ministry. In the course of the proceedings, both of them made statements, which were mutually exclusive, Mr. Attorney General, because the Minister's Chief of Staff claimed to have shown this document, and the Deputy Secretary of State said that he had never seen this paper. If anyone could have made this whole thing clear, it would have been Minister Zoltán Balog; I think it would have been justified to listen to him in this criminal proceedings. In addition, it is very interesting, Mr Attorney General, that in such cases there is almost without exception a confrontation in the proceedings, and in two of these contradictory statements, two of the parties to the case who provided substantial information, did not attempt to confront and resolve this contradiction in the course of confrontation. [[14.00]] Instead, what did you do? In this case, the trial was terminated, of course, by the Central Detective Attorney General's Office, the Fidesz Fist. I don't understand why we had to cut the ministerial line or the ministry line. That is, I think it is clear, Mr. Attorney General, that someone in the Ministry has written out the application, as the suspects wanted. The suspects - and there are data on this in criminal proceedings - are talking about some kind of Tamás, I think, Tamás Köpeczi-Bócz, who had to be consulted. There's no such thing as not being responsible for such a case in the Ministry because of the [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] tender will be issued there. I would therefore like to ask why the procedure was terminated instead of acting on this matter and the Minister would have been heard. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-22-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. To answer, I give the floor to the Attorney General Peter Polt, whom I respectfully welcome. Here you go, Attorney General.
u2017-05-22-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, The Member was right to ask this question, which appeared in 168 hours anyway, here in Parliament, or to turn to me in writing. I think there's some misconceptions that can be disbanded. Of course, as you pointed out, the Central Investigator's Attorney General examined both the main proceedings and the possible leak. With regard to the basic case - one part of your question concerned this - the indictment in which Roland Mengyi and his six associates were accused, and the case is now in court, the indictment contains in detail the facts that could be established in connection with the opening of the tender. There is no doubt that Roland Mengyi contacted Tamás Köpeczi-Bócz, who passed this request on to his head of department, and then the tender was published. However, in addition to these facts, there was no criminal liability for persons acting on behalf of the Ministry. The other side's criminal liability can be detected, and, as I said, it's already in court. And as far as the leak is concerned, the Central Investigator's Attorney General has actually dealt with this in detail. It was found that the defendants might have been aware that there was a procedure, otherwise this was widely known during the operation of the NAV. However, the fact that there was secret information in this case could only be established by conclusion. There was no evidence that this had been leaked from the Ministry. As for the person named Thomas, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It is clear from the data of the proceedings that one of the first-name accused Thomas is the one about whom these telephone conversations are about. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-22-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Gergely Bárándy, please.
u2017-05-22-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Chief Prosecutor, I still haven't received an answer - but thank you, by the way, for at least what you said in your reply - why the confrontation didn't take place when it happened in all criminal proceedings. Why didn't the minister get interrogated when he was clearly involved in this case? I'm only asking because there's no such thing, Mr. Attorney General, that there's a criminal organization where they order applications, and there's people that are directed to a company. Then the Ministry suddenly received applications under these conditions, but no one in the Ministry knows about this - because if someone knows about it and writes it according to this, then its criminal liability can be clearly established. There are two sides to this crime, Mr. Attorney General, and I object to the fact that while one of them has to be investigated, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] until then, the ministry line that leads to the minister, and that's being negligated. I think I understand why, but it's just not acceptable. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-22-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Attorney General, please.
u2017-05-22-163	Thank you very much. Congressman's asking questions about investigation tactics. The investigating authority is questioning the person who is expected to give a worthy statement on the subject. Since I just pointed out that there was no evidence to support the leak of classified information, the Minister's actual information was not expected from me, to the best of my knowledge. In other words, I assure the Member that if any new information comes to the public's attention, he will also examine it in detail, in line with the legal framework and the material truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-22-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "Are you willing to take meaningful, effective steps, or are you going to let the country empty? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary for his response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask... [[Gergely Wolf nodds.]] I'm not going to tell you any more, because I can see that Congressman Gergely Farkas indicates that he accepts the person he is responding to. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor, please.
u2017-05-22-165	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Only today, we have talked about the issue of emigration on a number of occasions, which is not a problem at all, and it is important, because it shows the importance of the matter, and it also shows that, unfortunately, you must be aware of the big problem we are facing. Just because a few minutes ago, your fellow Secretary of State said that about as many young people are coming home as they are leaving. I believe that anyone with experience from his or her acquaintance or otherwise does not experience this, but that there are many more people leaving than are coming home, and you cannot support it with numbers. But you, too, when we last talked about this, said that those who thought about going abroad in large numbers did not make it true to the extent that they might have shown in connection with a survey. Well, Mr. Secretary, the facts are stubborn. The situation seems to be that they have not only fulfilled this promise in such a proportion, but also in a greater proportion, and even more alarmingly pictured the latest analysis of the KSH Institute for Population Research, which suggests that up to 370 thousand people can leave this country, of whom 48 percent want to go, and 52 percent have already applied for a foreign job. I think this shows what an alarming situation we are facing. It is not only that hundreds of thousands of young people have left the country in recent years, it is not only that the birth rate in Hungary is much lower than the number of deaths, so the population is running low, hundreds of thousands more can leave Hungary. My question is, first of all, when do you see the severity of the problem and what effective steps you want to take to change the situation? And please, Mr. Secretary, don't worry about the past. We can see very well that wasn't enough. Future statements, surveys show that it had nothing to do with it, young people still want to leave. What future plans do they have that can stop this? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-22-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I have already said, will be heard from Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-22-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, However, it would be good to put order in the timetables as to what time it uses, because it said that we should not talk about the future, let us not talk about the past, while it said that very, very many young people have left it, and then it refers back to a survey where the survey says that they can leave it. So the conditional way is to make statements, to confuse time, time bands, to try to prove their own truth to those who listen to you. But we need to talk about what we have been doing over the past period, and of course we need to talk about what is expected in the next period, so that as few people as possible leave the country, and as little as possible think about doing temporary work elsewhere, because of course there is a slight slippage in what you said. My colleague, State Secretary, was not talking about young people when he talked about balancing their outcome and their return, but was talking about people working abroad temporarily from Hungary, and those who came into the country talked about balancing them. This is a fact that in the last year about 32-33 thousand people have tried their luck abroad for a longer or shorter period, and about this many have entered the country, and in its dynamics, the magnitude of the comings has increased significantly. But the less people think about going abroad to work in Hungary, the more programs they have heard from me or representatives of other ministries in this Parliament many times. [[14.10]] For example, the Youth Guarantee programme should be mentioned, where the programmes help young people to get to work in the order of ten thousand, or the job protection action, which has also helped very significantly 140 to 150 thousand young people to get to work. I'll continue my answer the next minute.
u2017-05-22-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gergely Farkas Group Director is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-169	Thank you very much. I think everyone else here understands the problem, the gravity of it. I understand that, as always, you are there to deny this problem, but the sad thing is that you are not arguing with me, Mr. Secretary, but are giving another push to the hundreds of thousands of people who are flirting with emigration, thinking about it, because from your answer you perceive that you do not dare to admit this problem, you do not know such a meaningful, effective program, a complex package of programmes - because it would be necessary here - that would make young people feel that something is going to change and that they might change their minds. Allow me to ask you a few specific questions. Come home, young man. The program was terminated, the programme was a failure, and nothing else was launched afterwards. Jobbik has just tabled a budget amendment with billions of forints, which would aim to help these young people come home - will they support this? I am also asking whether you will support Jobbik's Wage Union initiative, which would also be a huge help. I trust that you will support this case, and you will support it. I look forward to your answers to these questions. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-22-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Péter Cseresnyés is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-171	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, We talk side by side because you don't want to understand what I'm saying, or you don't want to understand what I'm saying. The government is not only thinking about the future, and it is creating programmes for the future, so that as few people as possible think about leaving, taking up work abroad. There have been programmes for a long time, we have been providing help in this, and all employers and employees have been using it to stay at home, and you do not want to accept it or see it or, in worse cases, you are uninformed. In the framework of the job protection action, around 900,000 people are supported by the job protection action programme. The same is true of the Youth Guarantee programme, which specifically helps young people to find their jobs and to keep their jobs there. Of course, it does not explain that, with the help of these programmes, we can say that, by the way, when they are trying to find a significant degree of employment abroad, there are significantly fewer people in Hungary thinking about it and there are significantly fewer people going out. Look at the Hungarian data, compare it with Romanian, Polish or Slovak data for example, and then you will not ask such questions, try not to create a mood among those who might think about leaving. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, the leader of the LMP Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Public money does not disappear, it only turns into a poster? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Miklós Seszták to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask Mrs. Group Leader if she accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] She says she's okay with it. Mr Bernadett Wind is in charge. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Fifty decagrams of lentils, two tablespoons of coconut fat, three humped tablespoons of oatmeal, a piece of smoked meat cube, a teaspoon of salt - smacked - two teaspoons of mustard, bay leaves, spice peppers, and garlic. Last week, MVM commissioned CÖF to develop such recipes. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Can COF cook?]] And they received not too little money, they received virtually half a billion forints to develop recipes like this. I hope I'm not making a forbidden illustration if I'm so afraid to show it to you. [[He's showing me a printed card.]] That it can be downloaded from the Internet, and that a housewife with a relatively simple ability can cook them and even find them. These are so-called complete foods. As I learned after reviewing the recipes, our grandmothers were also complete when they made stew and stew, but they didn't receive half a billion forints from MVM. Dear Minister, What exactly does MVM have to do with complete food? I don't even dare ask you what exactly it has to do with civilization, but since you're under the supervision of this company, I'm sure you know. 'Cause here, the evidence is very clear to me. Paks II. the only point is to have what to finance the oligarchs behind the government even after EU money has worn out. It doesn't matter to you that we are indebted, it doesn't matter, Fidesz is struggling to survive, and it doesn't seem to matter that they are saying completely idiotic explanations to the entire Hungarian media when we ask where half a billion forints of public money have gone. The bad news is that this seems to be just the beginning, because Lőrinc Mészáros, Andy Vajna, Árpád Habony and the others are clearly lining up to get these money. Dear Minister, Please answer me very clearly. Did you order the MVM to give this half-billion forints to the CF? I'd like to know exactly what's in the grant agreement.
u2017-05-22-174	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. As I said, on behalf of Prime Minister Miklós Seszták, the answer will be given. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2017-05-22-175	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I don't want to blur the answer, but I'm gonna say three eggs, two pinches of delicacy and some oil. That's what I made scrambled eggs for breakfast yesterday. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: And did you get half a billion forints for it? Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties.]] So that's about the answer I can give you - everything is mixed up. [[Dr. István Apáti: A little plum!]] That's what I like. That's how I eat. He asked for the specific answer: no, the Ministry did not order MVM, and I can only tell you that the amount received last year - is 508 million forints... [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: There is no ministerial seat for that recipe! The president's ringing the bell.]] Not for the recipe, we're not planning on doing that, thank you. So the COF has to account for it by November 20th of this year. Obviously, like any such grant contract, it is contract-based, and it is specific what it was given and what it was given for. I think that on 20 November we will be in a position to properly monitor its use. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-176	Thank you very much, Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder for the woman in charge of the faction. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-177	Thank you very much. I don't know if your breakfast was complete or not, but I'm sure you didn't get half a billion forints for it. I think it's very wrong for someone to yell such things into the media, to invent a field of science and complete food, and then to believe and applaud that the state company that manages forints is throwing away taxpayers' money in this way. Because the formula is quite clear. You recapitalisation the MVM here on the government, MVM pushed half a billion CÖF, CÖF was surprised because you didn't say you got half a billion forints, but you pulled it out of it and then you started talking about everything instead of telling me exactly what the money was for. The only way he could have done that was to release the grant agreement immediately. I am surprised, Minister, that you are not concerned about what is in this treaty. Do you really think it's okay for this public money to be spent in this way at the state company, or do you support this, so that there will be a complete review immediately and that this practice will be put to an end once and for all? What's the department's position?
u2017-05-22-178	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. A one-minute rejoinder, Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-05-22-179	Thank you. The Ministry's position is clear: before 2010 and beyond, both MVM and a public company that participates in social engagement will be paid out according to a specific, firm order. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Non-social engagement, Fidesz...!]] I think that the Ministry will be in the position, as I said before, that if the settlement takes place on 20 November, we can tell from the accounts whether you spent the money on what the application... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett, November 20?]] November 20th. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What does the Ministry do in the meantime? The president's ringing the bell.]] We can't do anything until then... [[Noise, interruptions.]] Thank you very much.
u2017-05-22-180	Mrs. Freckles! I'm sorry, we're not having this private conversation. When I give you the floor, okay? [[Péter Cseresnyés: He doesn't mind!]] Dear Parliament, Péter Csizi, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Defence an immediate question:. May 21. The title of the Day of Hungarian Defence. Minister Tamás Vargha has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. [[For signal:]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman Péter Csizi has the floor. Here you go, Congressman. [[14.20]]
u2017-05-22-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Yesterday, the 21st of May was the day of Hungarian defence, so allow us, on this occasion, to express our appreciation to Hungarian soldiers in the framework of immediate questions in the Hungarian Parliament, because they are the ones who guarantee the security of our country, guard our borders and defend Europe in the face of modern migration and terrorist threats in Europe. In addition, in recent years, the Hungarian army has demonstrated its ability, whether to perform professional tasks or protect against natural disasters, on several occasions. As I said in last week's budget debate, security is one of the most important values today, so Fidesz is committed to recognising the efforts of our soldiers - whether they are NATO roles, international missions or their role in the performance of border protection tasks - not only in words but also in actions. For this reason, when our soldiers worldwide endure and defend our borders in the midst of migratory pressures, it is important to be able to outline a long-term career picture for them. To this end, the government's promise of raising salaries and developing the system of wage benefits is also unbroken. In fact, the government's intention is well demonstrated by the budget planning for 2018, as the budget for defence will increase by HUF 73.6 billion, which will mean a 21 percent increase. That is why, welcoming the Government's efforts and intention to develop the Hungarian Defence Service on a large scale, we support the wider development of the wallet and thank the Hungarian soldiers for their work and the dedication of the Hungarian soldiers. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-22-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Every year on 21 May, when we celebrate the day of Hungarian defence, we commemorate a glorious military act of 168 years ago: that is when the newly formed Hungarian military reclaimed Buda Castle within the framework of the spring campaign. The idealism of this heroic struggle, an example of which gives strength to the soldiers of today, but not only to the soldiers of today, but also to all of us and future generations. But the day of defence is not only a memorial, but also a celebration, a celebration of soldiers serving today, who perform excellently at their places of service. We thank them every time for this excellent work, and I thank them very much for the fact that my fellow Members, no matter which faction they sit in, thank the Hungarian soldiers every time, because they have been serving the protection of the Hungarian border for two years now, they have been serving as missionaries, and they are also involved in the prevention of natural disasters. It is very important that we have now reached the moment when we can not only estimate our soldiers in the process of raising wages and creating a career, but also through a technical development we can compete with the countries of the region and age, since the programme of defence and force development of Zrínyi 2026 is a development program that can make the Hungarian Defence Office a serious force of the region. We are about to do a great job, but there are significant improvements and excellent opportunities ahead of the Hungarian Defence Service, which, we cannot stress, is the result of the work of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. For a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Péter Csizi has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. I think it is a good objective for the Hungarian Defence Forces to become one of the most decisive forces in the region. The development program you have mentioned will enable us not only to respond with modern means to the challenges of the modern age, but also always to the humane, always to pay attention to the respect of our soldiers, and what is very important is that even though we are talking about fighting, we also pay attention to the protection of our soldiers, because they must serve the Hungarian border, they must serve Hungary in such a way that they are safest as possible. That is why it is important to remember them on occasion and to thank them for their work on good occasions. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-22-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The Day of Defence should remind all of us that defence is a national matter and that the country is not self-evident. The protection of the country is also necessary today, but not only for the protection of borders and soldiers for the protection of the border, but also for the protection of our national independence and national sovereignty, and we need the Hungarian people to stand up for this, because everyone can do that to protect the Hungarian country. Soldiers protect the country at the border, and the Hungarian people can defend Hungary from mass immigration and foreign powers by expressing their views. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Gőgös, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, Is it normal for the Prime Minister's childhood friend to produce almost exclusively the fastest increase in the world's wealth on government orders? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Miklós Seszták to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you if you accept the person who is responding. [[On the sign of Zoltán Grimlock:]] Congressman says he'll take it. Congressman Zoltán Haughty has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-22-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I suppose you've agreed with the Prime Minister and you're representing his position, because it's usually the right thing to do. I think that it is also unviable in itself to have a group of companies or groups of companies on top of which people make 10 million an hour. It is also unviable that someone hits his forehead and buys up the company operating the camping site in Balaton, and then the next day an invitation to tender appears that the state is planning 5 billion forints on camping renovation. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What a coincidence!]] It is also unviable, and I believe, and Minister, will tell me if he believes that it is, too, that someone will receive a huge loan in two minutes, buy a newspaper that has worked for 60 years, and then close it for a month. It is, of course, an opposition newspaper. We also believe that it is unviable that they will start the construction of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant on some level, where news is published that there are few companies in Hungary that will be able to get involved in this, so the same childhood friend, Lőrinc Mészáros, accidentally joins a Czech company whose main activity is the production of nuclear power plant equipment. I don't think it's very realistic for someone to buy a third of the main square of a big city just because they're close friends with the Prime Minister. Minister, have you considered, after all, how is it that someone in the tendering system always knows everything in advance? Or can they think ahead, for example, that it will be a great electrification program - so that I can not only ask about the friend but also about the son-in-law? You should do something about that, 'cause it's gonna blow people's minds, sooner or later. I'm just interested in your opinion, as Minister of Economy, whether this type of enormous enrichment is realistic, even if someone's father-in-law or best friend is the Prime Minister.
u2017-05-22-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Minister Miklós Seszták. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2017-05-22-191	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Member, I have an answer to that question. If you believe that there has been any irregularity here, then you should make the complaint in particular, clearly, as is stated in the criminal procedural legislation, and then, as appropriate, the competent authority will investigate it and the decision will be taken. I think it's the best solution. And I have to say, as long as they don't do this, or have specific information or nothing but cutting. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-192	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Zoltán Gőgös. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-193	Mr. Secretary, just because something's in the law doesn't mean theft's gonna be stealing, doesn't mean it's gonna be criminal. They can take it out of it, but from the moral and moral category, I don't think they can. To be specific, here's the Balaton case. There, for 880 million forints, a campsite was announced around December, now or for the third time, for which no one mysteriously applied twice, and then, for the third time, it was sold for 290 million HUF, for 10 percent of the current Balaton real estate prices. [[14.30]] He's got an interest in that company, too, it's said to be a good friend. I don't know if it's gonna be like that joke at Lake Balaton in the future, you know, Minister, when they ask the poor kid when he has branded sneakers on his feet, and he says when the rich kid steps on it. Now, it's about the same way to get down to Lake Balaton when the rich kid lets someone get down there. I don't accept the answer like that. There's something else to say, Minister.
u2017-05-22-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Minister.
u2017-05-22-195	My fellow Member! You told me the big truth, that it was a public tender, and no one applied for it. So, obviously, anyone would have had the opportunity to buy this property, but no one applied. I think that a meaningful answer could be given if someone had applied and did not win this tender. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-22-196	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "The Hungarian is losing weight! Are you doing everything you can to prevent population loss? It's an address. Minister Katalin Veresné Novák has appointed Secretary of State as a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[György Szilágyi: Yes.]] Thank you very much, Mr President, for expressing your acceptance of the response.
u2017-05-22-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We're in a demographic crisis, and the population is falling. Unfortunately, this is also the case under your government, because according to the data we have just published, the period between 2010 and 15 has not been free from this. At the moment, there are 5 out of 23 districts in Budapest and 175 rural districts where the number of births exceeds the number of deaths. I think it's very scary data. In addition, there is not even a huge wave of emigration that brings thousands, tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of young people abroad. We're talking about the age group that goes out, two thirds of them are under 40. Today, according to some statements, one in six children are born abroad. We should fight population loss, and this fight should stand on many feet. One of these legs is that unfortunately there is a problem that one in five Hungarian families is already affected by the issue of infertility. Unfortunately, there are Hungarian families in Hungary who want to have children, and I would also like to take on raising these children, but for some reason they cannot have children. For them, there is only one option: the IVF program, assisted reproduction, in Hungarian: the flask baby program, in which children could be brought into the world. For several years, we have always submitted to the budget to support these Hungarian families, as they should show hundreds of thousands of forints, and not everyone can produce this. We are submitting our amending proposals to the budget and you are constantly voting against them for five years. We submitted it again this year, and I'd like a $3 million budget where you can apply. My question is whether you now support Jobbik's proposal and support families who want children in Hungary today. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-22-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Katalin Veresné Novák. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2017-05-22-199	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think we share the view that the demographic crisis is a very serious problem that we have to face. I can also say that our government was the first to face this phenomenon, and our government is the first to do something about it, and it is trying to seize all the means at its disposal, as far as possible, to combat the demographic crisis and the loss of population. We didn't say or talk about the trends in 2016. I think it is worth adding that, since we are talking about the worrying phenomena that have, I might add, been going on for 35 years, since the population has been running out for 35 years. In 2016, there was no demographic indicator that did not change in a positive direction, i.e. each demographic indicator changed in a positive direction. The decline in the population decreased by 16 percent, increasing by 20 percent between 2010 and 2016, resulting in a 20 percent increase in childbearing, i.e. fertility, in six years. This is a very significant increase, it has not been as high in childbearing as in 2016, 20 years has not been as high in marriages as in 2016. Child mortality, infant mortality, and abortions were at an unprecedented low level. So I can say that every demographic indicator has shown unprecedented positive values in 2016 and in the past period, from 2010 onwards. I am not saying that we can sit back, I am not saying that we no longer have anything to do to stop the population loss, but perhaps it is our commitment that if you look at the budget for 2018, we have planned to support families twice as much as we had in 2010. So, yes, through every means available to us, through the tax system, through the work-family balance, through the home creation programme, we support families to have children, so that it is good to have children in Hungary.
u2017-05-22-200	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman György Szilágyi. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-201	Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, we cannot sit back, for in order to remain, more than two children should be born per family, and today this indicator is well below two, not even reaching half. By the way, that's not what my question was about. As far as I'm concerned, the IVF baby program, you didn't say a sentence about that, Madam Secretary. There are hundreds of thousands of families in Hungary today who would like to have children, but because of some medical problem, or because of changes in eating habits or climatic changes, they are unable to produce children naturally. For them, the flask baby program is the only option. An implant on each family accounts for nearly 300,000 forints. A lot of people can't afford that. We want there to be a system of applications, a framework for which these families can apply, and if they win the tender, they will get their share, and they can have children. Would you like to make it possible, like the Jobbik for Hungary Movement, for these difficult families, whose biggest problem is that they cannot have children and support Jobbik's proposal for a budget amendment, which we have also presented this year? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-22-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-203	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am very confident that Jobbik will support our budget allocation and the 2018 budget. I mean, we don't want to apply for people with fertility problems. I think it wouldn't be a solution to apply, it would be to give everyone access to the health-funded IVF baby supply, the flask program. But it won't be the only good solution. By the way, the government accepted a proposal, so this decision was made. The necessary resources are available in the 2018 budget. So if you vote for the 2018 budget, Congressman, and your faction, you will support couples who have a fertility problem. I'd like to add one more thought. Your question, didn't it sound like you were doing your best to prevent a population loss? Yes, with one exception: we will not invade people in Hungary in bulk. This is one solution that we do not consider appropriate in order to halt population loss. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-22-204	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, That concludes the hour of immediate questioning. Now, at the government's request, 10 minutes... [[For signal:]] Sorry, no. There's another presidential version coming up. I'll wait for Minister Lazarus to take his place. Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, There follows the political debate on the steps needed to raise the Hungarian countryside in economic and social terms, initiated by R. Benedek Sallai and his fellow Members. Opinion on the initiative of the political debate V/15303. All of you could have known him. I now ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to explain the course of the political debate. Here you go, notary.
u2017-05-22-205	Dear Parliament, Allow me to explain the course of the debate. First, a statement from the representative of the Government will be made for a total period of 40 minutes. The speakers of each political group will then be able to speak in 15-15 minutes, and then the first independent Member will be able to speak. Further speeches are then possible within the remaining timeframe. Finally, the representative of the Government will respond in 20 minutes to what has been said in the debate.
u2017-05-22-206	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the main rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate is expected to be in the time of the pro-government factions. In the meantime, two-minute speeches, with the exception of responding to personal concerns, should be included in the timeframe. [[14.40]] Point of order speeches are not included in the time frame. On the meeting room information board, interested parties can monitor the use of time frames. Before we begin the debate, I would like to ask Mr Dezső Reliable to explain the time frame. Here you go, notary.
u2017-05-22-207	Dear Parliament, I would like to announce that the Fidesz, MSZP, Jobbik and LMP groups have initiated a two-fold increase in the time frame, so the distribution of timeframes is as follows: 164 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 38 minutes for the KDNP Group, 90 minutes for the MSZP Group, 82 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 48 minutes for the LMP Group and 10 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2017-05-22-208	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, First, the government's debate will take place in a 40-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2017-05-22-209	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I must make a statement on behalf of the Government on the occasion that the LMP has today launched a parliamentary debate day on the steps needed to raise the Hungarian countryside in economic and social terms. First of all, I would like to stress that the Government supports the initiative and looks forward to the debate. As a sign of this, we supported the group's motion to have this debate over a double period, in contrast to the original plans. The declaration is made on behalf of the Government, not only as a Minister with a wallet for the allocation of rural development resources, but also as a Minister with a general representation of the Government, given that after 2010, rural development work took place in the Ministry of Agriculture until 2014, and now rural development, and in particular planning, settlement planning, planning and conceptual ideas related to the development of settlements under 10 thousand persons, belong to the Prime Minister's Office. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their initiative to talk about the current issues of rural development within the walls of this House, because it is obvious that today in the European Community, but in all the countries of the civilised world, there is a very serious debate, a very serious discussion about the possibility for smaller settlements to improve and ensure the ability to maintain and make a living, to keep the population and to provide a living for the citizens living there. Two things immediately conflict with each other: the challenges of national local aspects and, of course, of the global world. Hungary is also struggling with these, so the basis for this debate may well be to ask or assume how Hungary will respond to the global challenges that are particularly relevant within the European Union, where the free movement of people, the free movement of services and the free movement of capital were achieved, and where a large number of people supported it in 2004 so that Hungary could be a member of the European Union so that they could work freely as a guest worker or even as a guest resident in countries west of us. So local aspects and global aspects conflict. On the other hand, there are obviously internationalist processes in the world and there are patriotic aspects that we need to enforce. Here, new aspects arise, thirdly, which raise the issue of Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This is an important challenge of the 20th century, relating to the conservation of natural landscapes and ecological heritage, which serve as a priority objective for the LMP. In general, the political debate that deals with social, sociological differences and difficulties between the village and the city leads back for a long time in Hungary. Now I would not separate and warn the National Assembly that this has deep roots in our cultural life, in our public thinking and in our social thinking. We are after long ideological and principled debates, folk, urbanists, and I could refer to the villagers' movement and others who draw attention to the village's difficulties. This is important because today there are 3155 settlements in Hungary. The capital city, 23 county towns, 118 ten thousand people, 204 ten thousand towns and 2809 settlements, i.e. village or large village; 2809 settlements, which are a village, and some 40 percent of the Hungarian population lives in these settlements. Therefore, the inclusion of this issue on the agenda is particularly topical, regardless of whether a opposition party is clearly directly led by political intentions or whether it may be driven by political popularity. That is not what I am suggesting, but the intention of a discussion in principle and with great depth on the part of the opposition parties when this agenda is asked to be taken up. On the other hand, the most desperate liberal approaches that were formulated in the words of Péter Mihályi in 2006, who dared to say - as a decisive ideologist of the then government representing the SZDSZ - that in Hungary there is no longer any need for a village, because in thousands of years the village as a form of existence has transcended, so we have to count on the destruction of villages and the creation of a new form of life; there is no point in operating, operating, maintaining and organising Hungarian society in the village. This shows that the liberal side of politics has developed in recent decades completely hair-scaring approaches to Hungarian social reality. I hope that the LMP is not an heir to the SZDSZ and does not represent this approach, like the SZDSZ, as a liberal party, which does not count on the village. I regret that you are here alone, Member, in the case of a small group, it is obvious that this is not an easy thing, but it would have been nice to hear the attitude of all of you on this matter, what you think as a liberal party about the fact that many Hungarian liberals believe that the village is something beyond, and that it is no longer necessary. [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] In this House, I believe that the question of the village, the question of the countryside, the question of rural development and the question of the future of the countryside is not an agricultural issue in itself. Of course, in the context of today's debate and in the further reflection after the debate, we will talk about the fate of rural development resources, the aim of agricultural subsidies, the possibilities of economic incentives, but rural development, if I understand and look at the statements or programmes of the various political parties in this regard, or I have heard about the coming programmes, is much more than an agricultural issue in itself. How social this is, Gyula Illyés, László Németh, Dezső Szabó or Géza Féja drew attention to that political family on several occasions and with special thoroughness. The interesting thing is that, over the course of a hundred years, these questions do not seem to be resolved, as many of the modern-day thinkers draw attention to the fact that there are about a thousand settlements in Hungary of the size of the aforementioned 2809 settlements, which are at risk of extinction and lack of prospects. My constituency consists of 19 settlements, and among the 19 settlements there are settlements whose population is expected to be in my life - I'm not sure that during my mandate, but I hope in my life - there are difficulties and challenges that are difficult to deal with. There is also a risk that a small settlement of a few hundred will no longer exist in 30-40 years, since the settlement will be extinct. There are settlements in Hungary, and there are researchers who suggest that the number of these settlements can be measured in thousands, which are at risk of depopulation, emigration, extinction and elimination. Another alarming figure is that there are 350,000 vacant properties in Hungary today, which they do not live in. It is estimated that there are between 150 and 200 thousand of these properties that are otherwise habitable. Most of these are in rural areas, small settlements or small communities. While we are trying a number of economic and social development programs in the area of housing constructions and new housing constructions, I would note only in parentheses and suggest that it makes me wonder that there are 150 to 200 thousand empty, predominantly rural abandoned properties that can be inhabited, and there are about 150 thousand, which are already in uninhabitable condition. This is all a process and a result that I believe deserves all the attention and support in two respects: keeping the population and keeping the population; keeping it and supporting it. [[14.50]] Very talkative data - and I do not want to classify it as itself - that between 2002 and 2010 the population of Budapest received GDP, which means the GDP per capita in Budapest was 222 thousand forints, and the national average was 200 thousand forints. So from 2002 to 2010, we got to the point that the per capita share of the population in Budapest, taken from GDP, went up to 222 thousand, while the average was 200,000. Now, between 2010 and 17 this went back to 204 thousand, by the way. This does not mean that Budapest has become relatively less, but that GDP production capacity has not increased significantly in rural settlements. [[Zoltán Gőgös: Not in a village!]] So who governs the country, who receives trust from the electorate, can directly influence how the population's ability and ability to maintain it in a small settlement is in reality. We think that Fidesz and KDNP are usually characterised by the fact that the Hungarian state has the means to intervene in the life of a settlement. For example, it is a very big question, and if we do not look at this issue in a political or political debate, it could also merit a substantive discussion on how the tools available to the Hungarian state are distributed or redistributed in a small community. In January, I heard in the cold of minus 20-25 degrees, listening to the Kossuth radio, that there were settlements where people couldn't fire with what. I quickly looked at the location of the affected settlement, and I faced the fact that the settlement concerned lies in the middle of a vast state forest farm. I asked myself, "How can I hear on Kossuth Radio that people can't heat, while the state has thousands of acres of forest farming?" [[Noise in opposition benches. Zoltán Grimlock: One million!]] at the border of the settlement. Excuse me, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to finish what I have to say. So I'm just suggesting that the state's use of the tools in its hands, I believe and believe that it has a number of options for the future. After a serious parliamentary debate and several consensual points, the Parliament adopted the national rural strategy in 2012, which was by far not only about agriculture, the preservation of natural resources and ecological values, viable agricultural production, the production of safe food, the creation of economic foundations for rural existence, rural employment. I will not now be obliged to cancel the money, the amount of information that everyone in this House knows, that the Hungarian state took over a thousand billion forints of debt from small settlements in connection with the organisation of life after 2010. The minimum wage was 73 500 HUF in 2010, and now it will be 138 500 HUF in 2018. This is only important because there are between 800 and 900 thousand people who live on minimum wage, and most of them live on their daily lives not in Budapest, not in large cities, but in rural and small settlements. Unemployment in rural settlements was by far over 10 percent. Today, the national average is 4.5 percent, but if one separates from this 2800 settlements or smaller towns, then you can see that there is also a substantial and significant improvement. Unemployment in large cities is below 3 per cent, but this also means that we can expect unemployment in small settlements or in very small settlements of around 4-5 per cent. [[Proud Zoltán: Much more!]] In particular, it is intended to raise awareness that 470 thousand crimes were committed in Hungary in 2010, 272,000 crimes were committed last year, while in this house between 2006 and 2010, there were many, and even some, who were still organizing a guard in order to protect public security, in order to break up the state's violence monopoly, it was often said that the Hungarian state was not able to [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Don't be disgusting.]] The people... Now that reference is disgusting, I see it hurts you. But I remember the times when people were sitting here in vests. We've come a long way for that. But I'm just saying, I'm sorry... [[There's a lot of noise from Jobbik's benches. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen. I did not want to draw attention to the differences made by political means, but to the fact that the Hungarian state was unable to guarantee security in the countryside between 2006 and 2010, so that communities were organised in order to restore public security. Today, the Hungarian state is trying to guarantee public security everywhere with 5,000 police officers, with a personal presence, and as a result there are more and more settlements where the number of thefts has fallen radically. It is also a remarkable statistical record of how many settlements there are in Hungary where there was no robbery in 2015 and 2016, because living in the countryside, living on the farm, living in the small village, is also part of making people feel safe there and knowing their loved ones safe. I would also like to tell you that there are 2.9 million people in the village and large village today, and there are 5.2 million people in the city, so there are 3 million and 6 million people. Obviously, urban development and urbanisation are a very important issue. There is still a time when, like the Western European way of life, it could be said that quality life can only be lived in rural areas. Many people today believe that quality life can be basically lived in smaller or medium-sized cities. We need to get to the point where we can see this. Of course, there is a difference not only in the type of settlement, there are huge differences in the city with the right of Budapest-megye, the city with the right of the county, the city with the right of the county, the town with the right of the town. It is another thing to live in a village in Győr County, and it is another thing to live in a village in Szabolcs or East Békés. For example, in Győr-Moson County in 2015, GDP, which was produced there, amounted to HUF 2072 billion. In the same year, the GDP generated in Tolna County was 577 billion. The difference, I think, is well described. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Paks is in that.]] As regards rural investments, HUF 1265 billion was invested in Budapest in 2015 and HUF 404 billion in Győr-Moson-Sopron County and HUF 57 billion in Nógrád County. This highlights the differences that exist even within the country, obviously influencing the life prospects of people living there. I will not tell you in detail, I will spare my fellow Members this, but I would like to add to the minutes, Mr President, that I would recommend to my fellow Members the thoughts of Jenő Czettler, who was a pro-small farmer and who is a village researcher, the thoughts of historian István Weis, but István Győrffy's thoughts are the most talkative. In fact, all three claim that, from the perspective of national consciousness, national survival, cultural identity, folk thinking, folk culture and peasant culture, there are traditions in Hungary that have a national and national strategy interest in preserving. Budapest is the nation's capital, as they say, and the countryside is the living space of the nation, and they believe that it is necessary to stick to it, even if urbanization was a major challenge in the twenties and thirties and later on. So I'm not going to bore you now with the specific aspects and historical analogy of the village and the village question. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the important challenge of the next decade in the area of rural development. Firstly, during the spring elections in 1990, the democratic political parties at the time began to compete with the aim of promising a rural middle class. The question is whether the rural middle class has been established in the last 25 years, and whether the rural middle class represents cultural, social and economic strength. I think it is still relevant that we all in this House have an interest in being a strong, national, patriotic middle class in rural areas, and that there is a strong national interest in strengthening the middle layers of society. An important question is whether a small settlement, a rural settlement, provides young people with an opportunity to make a living, to make a living. Today, the greatest loss to these settlements - and it is obvious that there is a controversial impression of the state of the country - is that while the numbers seem to be good, a pensioner sees that he is barely young on the street, no children. It is a big question that in the settlement where ten children are born, what is the future of the community? If there is no class of 20-30 children who are born a year, this raises very serious questions about the future, the future of young people and the future of young people in rural areas. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I have just mentioned increasing the capacity to maintain and improve quality of life. I am talking about quality of life because in Hungary since 2004 the differences in earnings have not decreased compared to the European Union, so the same distance today separates the average salary of the western countries of the European Union from the average Hungarian salaries that separated it in 2004. This would be very difficult to compete with, and there is no reality that in the next few years the wage gap will decrease radically. It keeps correcting, but it doesn't decrease radically. Therefore, I believe that the government's policy to decentralize EU funds in terms of territorial development, rural development and urban development is not only providing HUF 1200 billion to 19 counties, but also plans to launch a special programme for settlements of less than 10 thousand people, I believe it is a good initiative because we can compete with the call for calls for investments in quality of life that the Western European economic market represents. [[15.00]] Western economic analysts rarely say that with the workforce that was taken from Poland, they took me from Slovakia, took me from the Czech Republic and took me away from Hungary, how much Western Europe gained. Let us admit that over the last five years, workers who left Hungary and the aforementioned countries of Central and Eastern Europe and went to work in the West have made a decisive contribution to competitiveness and economic growth on the basis of numbers, physical and intellectual performance, in a million-dollar scale. This is an economic advantage, and here it is a disadvantage, both socially and economically. One of the options to reverse this process is obviously to reduce wage differences and, on the other hand, to strengthen quality of life. So we do need to pursue a government policy that tries to guarantee the possibility of a good quality of life in every small settlement, in addition to the possibility of prosperity. Of course, there is also research in Hungary about how many people can work locally and how many people have to provide labour mobility. Therefore, for example, if asked by the LMP faction, what is one of the conditions of rural development, prosperity in the countryside and survival: for example, ensuring and guaranteeing the conditions for going to work on a practical micro level. Because if a young worker in the nearby settlement gets a job so that he doesn't have to move in there, obviously for the sake of his children and his own well-being, it can only be avoided if the village in question, which belongs to the area of a larger settlement, in the 197 district district, has partly good infrastructure, good services and work is solved. So we are convinced that there are clear, simple and practical things that can be solved, or that by helping and developing them, it can be avoided that larger settlements, like district centres - what is the government's policy? 197 district centers will be developed. They hear from the EMMI, there will be a swimming pool, there will be a gymnasium, a gymnasium, but this means that people living in the district, in the microregion, will move to the district centre first, then to the county centre or the regional center, and from there to Budapest or, as the case may be, to the border. In order for this process to be curbed, part of the offer must be made as regards quality of life and, on the other hand, the conditions for going to work must be ensured, which suggests that a review of the current performance of the entire transport sector is required. This means the fate and future of the Volán, the MÁV and the whole of community transport, how these public services ensure that people stay in the area, or how they actually push people towards giving up commuting and forcing them to move into at least one district centre or regional economic centre. Therefore, I think it is very important to enforce the principle of equal opportunities and equal access in Community services, which, I believe, significantly reduces the one-sided capitalistic focus of previous decades. I would also like to mention one other thing: this Friday the programme "Modern Cities" will be completed, which supports the economic development programme of 23 county-righted cities. Obviously, as this is over, the government must plan, regardless of next year's elections, it is the duty of the government at all times to open a programme of economic development for settlements of between 10 thousand and 50 thousand people, towns of urban rank, and to open an economic programme for municipalities of less than 10 thousand people. After 2010, the government made a very clear decision by focusing on municipal offices in municipalities under 2000 because it sets out the community sustainability frameworks that are important for the future. But it is not a decided question, and the question in this House is not even discussed: where and what health services and educational services should be provided by the Hungarian State, together with territorial differences. In 2010, we announced that, under the leadership of my fellow Member, Mr Sándor Lezsák, wherever parents require it, he must provide basic education to the Hungarian state. It is necessary to ask again what parents need: to move to the nearby district center and to have school development, or to have a high-quality primary education in the village of 600 people, regardless of how many children are born. Because if it is true that education is one of the most important items of competitiveness, then it is a big question whether 40 percent of the country, which lives in a small village in a small settlement, is affected by this question and how it affects it; whether small settlement schools or district center schools, with each consequence - with the result of the organisation of entry and transport - represent a competitive disadvantage or competitive advantage. When the Hungarian education system is said to have been the most enhanced differences between children and children, it meant not only children in a class, but also the difference between the opportunities of children in the capital, city, rural, small-town or rural areas, which, I think, is a very important and still undecided issue from the point of view of rural development or rural development. Péter Mihályi's words followed between 2002 and 2010: he said that he did not need a school in the village, he did not need a general doctor, everyone went to the nearby center, people had to be installed there, they had to be herded into the cities, and then all the problems would be solved. We have historical knowledge that this is completely contrary to Hungarian national interests, not only culturally, not only in a cultural or historical sense, but also in our national existence, there are certain forms of life; the eradication of the village is also a very serious liberal mistake, which I believe is the 21st. These processes need to be eliminated in the first century and not strengthened. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] I would also like to mention here that it would be worth returning again and again to the question of how to organise the country in Austria, which is an 8 million-dollar country with much worse territorial features, or more difficult transport, because of the mountain region, that small settlements are able to provide opportunities and livelihoods for the population there. So they're inevitable... (Dr. Gábor Staudt intervenes. There's no tax on the solar panel. I'm sorry. [[Defiance in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] I'm sorry. (Development in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik. ) There must be many reasons why this debate day is intended to be discussed, I assume. What we are sure of, and what if someone looks at the European benchmarkes, they can learn as a lesson: if the Hungarian state spent HUF 3500 billion between 2007 and 2013 on the road in Hungary, the country only spent HUF 3500 billion on the development of road infrastructure between 2007 and 2013, this does not mean that the secondary or third-class roads used for transport by the pulverised settlements have improved substantially. So, while Hungary is in the most advantageous position in Central Europe in the main transport network, there is the highest proportion of motorways among the former socialist Central European countries, it can be said in parallel that infrastructure development will surely be needed. So the question of what will be the survival power of the countryside and how to keep the population there, in addition to labour mobility and the restructuring of transport, I am sure that further infrastructure improvements are needed. The Hungarian state has now announced a 2400 billion-dollar road development programme, in which there are still motorway constructions, the number one main road modernisations and the number two main road modernisations. This HUF 2400 billion, which is already running from the domestic budget and is not EU money, was still not enough to allow the exploration and approach of lower roads or smaller settlements. This is very instructive for the whole country organisation and the organisation of the transport network. In the coming years, we will spend 1300 billion on domestic and EU money on rail development, but these are also main lines, which will obviously help the population to direct to Budapest, but the question is how they will help to stay in place. I just told you about the question of public services. I have opposed and am opposed to any idea that promotes any restructuring of health care that wants to centralize and centralize. I think that the music is always taken out by all the great health care organisers, which says that there are many hospitals in Hungary. This is stupid. If you look at countries of similar size, you can see and see an example of this. My view and my conviction is that both healthcare, education and public services should be brought as close as possible to voters through 197 districts. In addition, this is not impossible at a time of digitalization today, it is easier than it was ten or twenty years ago. I've already told you what I told you about public safety. I would like to say a few short thoughts about improving livelihoods. In 2015, the average gross earnings in Budapest were 319 thousand forints, with a national average of 243 thousand forints. So the average gross salary in Budapest was 319 thousand forints, and the national average was 243 thousand forints, and the unemployment figures, of course, would not be used here. This shows that rural sustainability, the potential for livelihoods are partly inseparably linked to sectors of the national economy where income generation is lower, profitability is lower and income opportunities are lower, such as agriculture. [[15.10]] It has been said many times in this Chamber, and I would just like to make one comment on agriculture, because the debate, I think, will also include, in part, the use of rural development resources, whether Hungary is exhausting its agricultural capacity today or not. In Hungary, 180,000 entities receive land-based support. It is said, said the socialists, that sometime between 500 and 600 thousand people, and even 700 thousand people, lived in agriculture. [[Zoltán Grimlock: A million and a half.]] A million and a half. Now, if we add the agricultural business, the food industry and everything that is attached to the agricultural sector, we add it to the 180,000 land-based supporters, I still don't think that more than 200 to 300 thousand people would be directly connected to the agriculture itself. There's far less potential for agriculture than you can take advantage of. It is an important question for the future, and it is not easy to answer it, in the context of EU agricultural trade or world agri-commerce and production conditions - or not to mention its info-technology tools - whether Hungarian agriculture has the capacity to keep up the workforce, to make the most of it, to organise it or to influence it positively. As a historical lesson, we can only conclude that the great estate has not helped in any way in the course of the 20th century. Based on the story of the century. That's all we know for sure. So the ambition, even if we argue about the means, is that Hungarian agriculture is based on large estates, it certainly did not help the development or survival of the Hungarian countryside, because it has led to concentration, high mechanization and low employment. Our interest is in high mechanization, but in addition to high employment, so it is obvious that cultural changes need to be considered, which takes us a long way to see how Hungarian agricultural support and agricultural development are linked, how they are linked to the development of the food industry. I would also like to mention here that, on the subject of work, I believe, there are 200,000 public workers on average in Hungary, and the public works programme certainly contributed to the well-being of these settlements. I, of course, know fellow Members who do not care, because they represent settlements such as the capital, where there is no public labour problem, because there is a shortage of labour and not a labour force. However, in the area represented by me, public work also had a sociological impact on the survival of the settlement, as there is a direct link between the reduction of crimes and public employment. But I also think that long-term public work also means a lot in terms of rural preservation and rural development. Today, the Hungarian state says, in parallel with the 2018 budget negotiations, that we will say no less than that next year everyone who wants to work will get a job from the market, from employers or from the Hungarian state. But if you want to work, you'll have a job in any way. I've already mentioned the allocation of resources here. I am aware that there are a number of debates on assets, but no one can doubt that in the last year and a half there have been 30 thousand farmers in Hungary who have been able to buy land in some form. Centrally leased state assets were transferred to 30,000 people. Instead of 100 tenants, 30,000 owners now use the former state property. I believe that this was a wise and good decision, and it shows that the redistribution of assets can influence the preservation of the countryside. Between 2007 and 2013, the Hungarian government and Parliament jointly distributed HUF 9200 billion, of which HUF 1518 billion was allocated to the development of the countryside. Of which 76 per cent had to be paid after 2010, because in the period 2004-2010 even the then governors were not able to organise the payments. So 76 percent of the resources at that time were paid now. Now, the available framework, which I assume is one of the subjects of today's debate, is a total of HUF 1300 billion, which was announced in 68 applications on 31 March 2017. 80% of this amount is dedicated to strengthening small and medium-sized economies and, of course, to local development, as in the framework of the above-mentioned "Modern Cities" programme, as well as within the framework of the regional operational programme, county development frameworks and individual development decisions for the development of smaller settlements. Access to public services, I believe, was substantially improved when we organized the handling of matters into walks. In the districts, we also organized the possibility of administration in settlements below 2 thousand people. The government, for symbolic purposes, has set the Hungarian internal relations, that government bodies should be established in the countryside. This idea was achieved by nuclear bomb attacks at the moment of the announcement, so it shows that as a result of our seven-year efforts, only the emigrated Kecskemét, the rest of the government, is stationed in Budapest. Despite the full sense of persuasion put in place by the Prime Minister, the government structure could not be mobilised, because even a ten million-year-old country, decentralisation, where appropriate, did not have the conditions for government executive power. We will present a programme to the National Assembly in the next period to address settlements of less than 10 thousand people. I have already quoted this, and I have just raised the question of labour mobility, that is, to get to the nearby workplace more quickly, to answer demographic questions, and to transform the system of support for families. The Prime Minister will report on this. In conjunction with the counties and smaller settlements, it is necessary to identify where other labour reserves are still available. For the Hungarian economy, there are reserves of growth and labour in certain counties, which have, by the way, been counties that have been lagging behind and poorly developing in recent years. Where can products with higher processing be provided? Where can the issues of economy and knowledge be linked by strengthening regional higher education centres? I would point out here that the very lesson of the last 27 years - this is some mystery, by the way, there has been no power or ability to really break through this - is that the development has always focused decisively on the same place. I pay attention now, so as not to mention anything else, because rural development would not only mean agriculture, not only crop production, livestock production, but also agricultural tourism or rural tourism; I am aware of where tourism resources have concentrated in the last 30-40-50 years. They always go to the same place. [[Zoltán Gőgös: Camping of the Butcher.]] There is no greenfield investment, there is no greenfield unexplored area and it is now discovered, for example, in the area of tourism, as there is less economic risk of investing in those - Lake Balaton, Hévíz, Lake Fertő and the others - or in any other settlements known elsewhere, as well as creating new tourist destinations, such as Szabolcs or South Peace, which are likely to produce new tourist destinations, which would require more advertising with less interest. I would also like to mention that the issue of infrastructure is not only about roads, but also about water supply, sewerage, sewage treatment and drinking water. We consider it very important to clarify in the next period that the legal fate of the land and parts of the territory of that municipality should be settled. So there are technical issues that need to be resolved, and as I have mentioned here the situation of vacant rural properties, I also mention the need to correct the family support system. The government will also consider in the next period how to provide the possibility of usable but empty properties for families who want to thrive in the countryside. Thanking for this initiative, I offer the government's partnership not only to Fidesz and KDNP, but also to all my opposition fellows of rural origin who are trying to help not only their constituency, but also to understand precisely that today there is a particular responsibility for all my fellow Members in Parliament, who represent the 3 million people who were born in the countryside and wish to thrive in the countryside. In this, the government would prefer not to be defined by differences in political or political positions, but rather by bringing together representatives who are interested in supporting the countryside. Thank you very much for your attention. We stand before the debate. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-210	Thank you, Minister Lazarus. I salute my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speakers will be held within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. The Fidesz Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Commission President Erik Bánki.
u2017-05-22-211	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The only way to Hungary's rise is through the rise of the countryside. That can't even be a question for us. Fidesz has always looked closely at the countryside, the people there, and their fate. [[15.20]] In recent years, in order to improve the situation of rural villages and cities, the central budget has, as Minister said, taken over the payment of the total debt of municipalities, thus creating a fiscal regulatory framework that ensures sustainable management. We have launched the public work programme, which, as has also been said in the Expo, is a major help to people living in rural areas and to people living in small towns. We raised the minimum wage and helped create thousands of jobs through the full use of the available EU funds. By re-establishing the district system, we have strengthened the focus role of rural cities. We have therefore taken a number of measures that have substantially improved the quality of life of rural people and restored their confidence in the future. Dear House, Under the socialists, people in the countryside could learn what it was like to have a government give them up. The roads of the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments were bordered by school closures, the elimination of railway wing lines, the abolition of postal services and hopelessness. This is the situation in which we took over the country's management and the management of most of the settlements in 2010. We've come a long way since then. Today, 97 percent of the population can use the services by mail in their locality. Between 2010 and 21017, 600 kilometres of new roads were built and 2,100 kilometres of roads were completed, and more than 1,100 kilometres of railway tracks were developed in these settlements. Not to mention the fact that in the meantime, 1250 km of new cycling routes have been built, which also helps to connect small settlements and, in addition to offering sports opportunities to people living on the ground, gives them access to work and can also be used as a tourist service. Within the framework of the gym building program, new gymnasiums will be built in 24 rural settlements, and thanks to the school development programme it has been established in 24 rural settlements and new educational facilities. Ladies and gentlemen, Employment has never been this high since the change in the system and the unemployment rate is so low. Today nearly 4 million 300 thousand people work in Hungary, and the unemployment rate has fallen to 4.5 percent. As a result of the public work programme and the investments from various development sources, employment in each county has increased at the fastest pace, otherwise, where labour activity has been low for many decades. On average, real wages increased by 18 percent and 22.8 percent over the last six years, without calculating the impact of the family discount. This means, fellow Members, that workers receive almost three months' extra wages in the case of families raising children. The county centers of economic development are the county seats themselves. The programme "Modern Cities" has provided a completely new framework for the development of cities for economic, social, cultural, sports and tourism purposes. The government signed a cooperation agreement with the mayors of local authorities on a development programme with a total value of nearly 245 HUF 3200 billion with the cooperation of 22 county-righted cities with so far an agreement. The development of the industrial park as a goal has been included in all previous agreements by local authorities, which also shows that this is the biggest problem. So far, these kinds of developments in 12 cities have received government support, amounting to more than HUF 40 billion. In the previous development cycle, only 16 percent of EU funds could be used for economic development and applied for, but now the government has undertaken in the new development cycle to spend 60 percent of the available EU funds on economic development investments, the largest winners of which will be rural settlements and rural farmers. Dear House, Within the framework of the Széchenyi 2020 funds, more than HUF 10.5 billion was developed from EU funds and domestic budget sources between 2010 and 17 years. We spent HUF 1800 billion on independent development in counties and cities with county rights, spending HUF 1230 billion solely on support for rural development programmes. The largest aid was granted to the counties of Csongrád, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, Somogy and Hajdú-Bihar. In the operational programme for territorial and urban development, nearly HUF 1200 billion of development funds contribute to the catching up of the least developed regions of the country at EU level, which is a priority and a shared responsibility for all of us. The budget for the operational programme for economic development and innovation is approximately HUF 2750 billion, of which nearly HUF 500 billion is available to improve the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, nearly HUF 70 billion to increase energy efficiency and more than HUF 530 billion to increase employment. In the 2020 cycle, more than HUF 500 billion of domestic and EU funds can be used to develop tourist attractions. The government decided in 2014 that, two years before the EU's 2020 deadline, by the end of 2018, all households, businesses and public institutions in Hungary, which require access to the Internet with a bandwidth of at least 30 megabit/seconds, would be available. [[Zoltán Grimlock: First we need electricity...]] With this, fellow Members, people living in the smallest villages can also be involved in the global process of digitalisation. [[Zoltán Grimlock: If there's electricity.]] Ladies and gentlemen, During the debate day ahead, everyone will be able to see how much the governments in office since 2010 have done for the development and rise of the Hungarian countryside. I think that all the measures taken by the government so far have shown that Fidesz, which it has promised in the campaign, has respected, not only in the area of economic development, not only in the area of tax reduction, but also in the area of rural development. The steps taken by the government, which are part of the programme for the allocation of resources for the next EU development period, are the issuing methodology, according to which, by the end of the summer, 100 percent of the resources available for EU funding will be available for tender, and thus the development programme for municipalities and businesses in the next period will be planned, I think that all of this will make a major contribution to a predictable development, sustainable development and development in the settlements of the Hungarian countryside, which will increase the retention power of small settlements, strengthen the competitiveness of businesses operating in these settlements and thus improve the quality of life of people living in the countryside. I ask your support for this. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]]
u2017-05-22-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Font Sándor, President of the Commission.
u2017-05-22-213	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I tell you frankly, when I saw the opposition's request to debate this topic, the economic and social uplifting of the Hungarian countryside, I felt a little ashamed; it would have been better for us, us on the government, to show what we have done so far, and perhaps to look at what our ancestors have done, who have ever steered at all, rather than trying to make proposals for rural development and for agriculture, without governance knowledge and technology. There was no question that, at the time of the change of government in 2010, the new government was the most exciting issue: we were very close to the end of the ten-year moratorium, i.e. when foreigners - European residents by which we mean foreigners - should theoretically open up the possibility of buying land. We have achieved what we have said by very significant legislation that we do not allow or want foreign soil to fall into the hands of foreigners. The other issue is that this legislation is currently being challenged by the European Union and is even in a judicial phase, but we claim that we are right on this issue. Let's hope that's the end result. But the intention that the Prime Minister has announced is that agriculture will be a strategic area for the government today. What does a decision like that mean? This means, for example, that agriculture has become one of the engines of Hungarian GDP in recent years. No one ever thought that Hungarian agriculture could be expected to make a significant contribution to growth. The figures show that the output of agriculture has been growing every year for six years, and every year it breaks the record of the previous year, which no one would have predicted, that Hungarian agriculture is capable of such performance. It does the same in the nominal value of agricultural exports, in the value of the external trade balance, and let us say that in six years the export and the foreign trade surplus increased by some 35-37 percent. As I said, no one dared to predict this about Hungarian agriculture, and it is no coincidence that the Minister's exposé still hints and makes him feel that there is an additional opportunity in agriculture, in our opinion. [[15.30]] To look back on 2016: here, agricultural products accounted for 29 percent of all our exports. This is a terrifying force, I hope you feel, however, how serious exporters and issuers have settled in Hungary in the field of service and production. At the same time, there has been a significant change. It is well known that we have created significant movements with the soil law and the Basic Law, especially in relation to the breakdown of the large estate system. This also means that in the near future, social enterprises will not be able to rent more than 1200 hectares, and no area payments will be granted in excess of 1200 hectares. As a result, in recent years, the proportion of economic areas over a thousand hectares has decreased by about one third. Rural development is another very large leg in addition to agriculture, where the quality of rural life can be influenced. There was a target here to lead development towards manual labour-intensive areas. By the way, more than 50 percent of the resources support investments and reflect this employment objective. 80 percent of these funds go to, or target small, medium-sized family farms, and the condition of the application is that they are subject to them. I note that until 31 March, all 68 existing applications were opened, which represents the total HUF 1300 billion tender fund. To look back on the same period in the 2007-2013 cycle: 31 out of 79 applications were opened, the payment was in ruins. It is well known that in 2010 the new government had to take very serious action so that EU funding would not be stuck inside and that we could draw all the money. This has been so successful that it has been able to draw all the tender money that was available on the EU's competition list, and it has been given great attention to Hungary's tremendous strength, but ultimately, it has been able to call it off. In addition, there has been a very significant change in the area of rural development in the current proposal, namely that it is possible to apply for an advance and that these applicants will receive serious support through a savings cooperative system. At agriculture, it was clear that we were trying to keep the two pillars that mean direct payments and support for rural development. I note that between 2007 and 13 EUR 10.4 billion was the source for Hungary, between 2014 and 20 EUR 12.3 billion, with an increase in the amount of money that could be used in this cycle by some EUR 2 billion. And let me add one more thing: we are very much in favour of agricultural production companies from the domestic budget. It is well known that there is no aid at all in pig and poultry areas; we provide partial and complementary national aid in the bovine, ovine, milk and tobacco sectors. In 2010, this subsidy amount was HUF 51 billion, HUF 95 billion in 2017. In the 2018 budget, which we are discussing, we have added another HUF 3 billion to support agricultural production, which can be paid at the expense of the Hungarian budget. We have introduced a new compensation system, and we would like to take this further with the hail relief system, with which we would like to achieve full coverage of Hungary. Let me mention a curiosity such as the farm development program, which is a real Hungarian specialty, and perhaps one of the great pride and characteristic shape of our agriculture, and in this we must also acknowledge the cooperation of opposition parties, this is the GMO-free Hungary, which is now, I say, the greatest power of agriculture. But here I will mention the specialty, the Hungaricum with which we discussed and introduced the Hungaricum Act, and thus directed the attention of consumers to special products. Agricultural education is a specific topic that I do not want to discuss in a few sentences, with specific details, but in any case we say that what we have promised is that we want to increase the competitiveness of the Hungarian countryside, increase job creation and improve the quality of life in rural areas, and we have certainly succeeded in doing so in these six years. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party also indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Varga.
u2017-05-22-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Minister, We have heard a very good expo, the goals of which can be identified, and we have heard many points about a country in which I think many people would like to live in Hungary, millions of people. However, we must ask ourselves, as Minister said, that we are interested in creating a strong patriot middle class in the countryside: whether we have come closer to this in the last seven years. Because if we interpret in itself what Minister said, obviously a picture of a very beautiful world, a very beautiful picture of Hungary would be drawn before us, but in fact our position is that in order to get closer to these goals, we need a change of government, we cannot keep what we have, and in fact for a number of reasons - I will divide things into six groups - we have moved away from being a stronger, wider patriot middle class in the countryside in Hungary. First of all, because Hungary's economy is growing, this is what the year 2016 showed, but it is quite amazing that Hungary's economy is growing less than all our regional competitors. It is not possible to say that GDP growth can be monitored on its own, obviously the state of the European economy, the surrounding countries and very much, and it is clear that Hungary has been lagging behind in this regional competition in recent years. In fact, Hungary is moving away from Western Europe, so the break-off of the Hungarian countryside continues. The issue of unemployment has also been raised, Minister. Obviously, the numbers look good, but I am not in a position to exclude the fact that more than half a million Hungarians have migrated from this country, and obviously many of them are included in the statistics by hundreds of thousands of our fellow countrymen working abroad, and obviously also by large public employment. However, what I see as a representative of the Parliament of Miskolc and as a man who walks not only Borsod, but also the counties of Eastern Hungary and the country is that the regions that I am speaking back and forth, parts of North Borsod, parts of Abaúj, where unemployment is huge, only public employment is a kind of perspective, but it is certainly not a long-term solution, poverty is getting deeper and deeper. That's why we used to say that the poor have obviously become poorer in recent years, which is what your seven-year-old government has brought, but only a very narrow circle has been enriched. Minimum wage, the question is mentioned many times. I would like to make it very clear in terms of the balance sheet for the last six years, to be more precise: for the six years preceding 2016. If we consider 2010 to be one hundred percent of purchasing value, then the purchasing value of the minimum wage reached the 2010 level only by 2016. You have taxed the minimum wage and have practically not increased it as much as inflation would have justified. This is why people living on minimum wages are in a worse situation, which is very important to say in connection with this debate, since about 70 percent of minimum wage earners live in small towns, small towns and villages, so the standard of living of the rural population is fundamentally defined by this issue. Public Security: Well, I don't consider it a success story, so I'm sorry about what's going on here. I can talk about my own district, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county district 2 I am an individual parliamentary representative, Miskolc's periphery is the Hollow Valley, where I do not see these improved data, but I can tell several points of the county, where I do not see these data actually improving. And what I can tell you is that with minor crimes, people no longer make announcements, they simply don't hope that the issue will be resolved, they don't hope for a solution from the state. This is a fundamental problem of public security, I think it is a huge problem, no wonder that the sense of relative public security has actually deteriorated significantly. [[15.40]] EU funds. We have heard many times from my fellow Members and from the expozee that there will be a call for funds of around 6.4 percent of GDP for next year. Now, that's what you're planning to do with 4.3 percent economic growth. Where? To give examples like this: for example, with the help of TOP resources in the countryside, the mechanism for the allocation of funds, which is otherwise at least doubtful, can be perceived by my fellow Members in the countryside. We have to say that Fidesz MEPs have been running around with lists, passing through the districts, and there is a minimum question mark as to what purpose these resources will actually serve. Many city leaders and settlements have been deceived, but in fact they will not be able to support many truly important goals from these sources. I claim that what has happened in these cases is bordering on Btk., and that the history of the allocation of TOP funds will need to be comprehensively investigated, and I declare this as a representative of the opposition rural individual parliament. So in a few weeks, I suggest that the National Assembly discuss what happened with the TOPs. As a sixth, I would like to bring it to you, in addition to stating that the public burden has also increased; about 37.5 percent of the public burden on GDP in 2010 was 39.2% today, but not only in this respect, but also in many other respects Hungary's competitiveness has deteriorated. I say statistics in 2016, the European Union published a list of competitiveness of development regions for 2016 and compared 263 EU regions by 2013: all seven Hungarian regions deteriorated according to the competitiveness indicator. Thus, the indicator has deteriorated all over the world, with a wide variety of parameters, some eleven. Its main pillars are to mention a few things: primary education, health and innovation, in which all the regions of Hungary have deteriorated, but where I come from, the region of Northern Hungary is in a falling flight, more than 5% of this deterioration. With regard to the health situation of the North-Hungarian region, the Romanian and Bulgarian regions leave the North-Hungary region in this parameter. So this cannot go on, my fellow Members, and we see the situation in the countryside differently than you do, and we look at it through other glasses. We claim that in order for Hungary to actually develop in the countryside, we need a change of government. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-05-22-216	Thank you, Congressman Varga. I give the floor to another lead speaker of the MSZP, next is Congressman Zoltán Gőgös.
u2017-05-22-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am sorry that the Minister has left, and I just wanted to say to him that this would not be the first debate we could have had intelligently, and his expozee would have given us a voice; less so did the two Fidesz lead speakers who read the texts of the propagandaists, which I am not surprised at with Erik Bánki, because he doesn't really go off the highway with the convertible, I suppose, but Sándor Font lives in that environment. Of course, it reminds me that at the time we had a poet, I don't know, he wrote in his poem, "He who flies over on a plane is a map of this landscape." It's not an easy question to see what's going on, but it's also true that there are only motorways, and no one gets down on the side roads, because these beautiful cars they use would be ruined. I suggest you all take a look around before you start a line like Erik Bánki or Sándor Font. Look around you once. Why don't you go over there and talk to them about what happened to these lands, whether you bought foreign land or not? Don't argue with me, fellow Members, but argue with the local people. There's only one problem: when they put little kings everywhere, not in the majority of mayors, but in the small kings, they don't dare to argue, they don't dare to come out of the house, they don't dare to come out of the house. This has become a huge development in rural areas, and I think they're on a very bad path, they're on a very, very bad path. It's not about the assessment of the situation, but this assessment could have been done at any time, in the past. Now I feel a message like this, that I wasn't responsible for what the Minister said here until the time of 14th, but the FM, so there will be order from here on out, in which he is so right that in 2010 the word "rural development" was also removed from the Minister of Agriculture's repertoire. In fact, when I ask him how they think this is going to happen, that months of payments are slipping, and a lot of applications have actually been put out, it's true that there were some proposals that have been modified fifteen times in the process to drive everyone crazy - how much is evaluated now, when I ask you this, you say that if I didn't know, this is not in his jurisdiction. Well, who the hell would have jurisdiction, let's say, what happens in the village, if not to the Ministry of Agriculture, even if it is true that rural life and simply agriculture cannot be confused? I think if we start on this track and see how we can re-form communities from the settlements where lonely people are now wrapped up in their lives, we might be doing a lot better. There are attempts to do this, and I would like to point out to everyone, for example, the Smart Village Programme, which has now been launched in the European Union, which is precisely the essence of what we were talking about, for example, how to keep young people in the village. I would like to say that it is very impressive what my fellow Member Bánki said, that they can connect the Internet everywhere next year, but they can only connect it where there is electricity, where there is no electricity, and there is no electricity, and there is, let's say, quite exciting to connect the Internet, and I do not think that it would help to improve the fate of rural people. By the way, I think everyone's got a lot of guts in this. I'm not saying there were no mistakes; I would add, the liberals said a lot of things, of course, but they couldn't say much about this area. I have also said it many times, and I will say it here, I have never agreed to close small schools and post offices; in this there were higher-level decisions that the market would solve various problems. But I would like to say this: seven years have passed, there is no crisis, we are building the stadiums in standard, but a single school has not been restarted. [[Alexander Font: That's not true!]] And what they've opened has been closed again since then, I'm just signaling, for example, the Pope-Csorna line, so it was just a parade. The other one. It came up in the Minister's speech as to why school is good now. If they could give the teachers more freedom and leave the children to, say, the small settlement, then they could create the same situation that I went to school, that where there were seven of us in one age class, and seven of us in the other, there were 1 and 3, 4 and 2, and the three of us graduated from that week. So it doesn't depend on how many kids there are in a school right now, it depends on whether they leave the teacher alone, let him work, but what you're doing today is pretty amazing. The other one. They made forced marriages with settlements: settlements that had not been in contact with each other for decades. Let's just say this came from an earlier problem, but you're still forcing this administration on them instead of taking the voluntary association system on some level and allowing them to solve certain problems within that framework. So, fellow Members, there is a lot of work to be done. It's an apartment. They're building an Ocsan residential park when he's here, the minister said there's hundreds of thousands of empty homes at the moment. Shouldn't we be thinking, let's say, and then I'll make a suggestion to create some kind of state housing fund from these properties, especially the unsold properties, and then solve a lot of rental problems, for example? There are attempts to do this, you have to ask how the socialist-led Hajdúdorogon does this, for example, it could be a national programme, which should be spent money on. The other one. The Secretary of State is also here, and I have already indicated in relation to the applications that if we are talking about a rural development concept, we should first assess the applications after a year. I know you're saying it's not his fault, but it's stuck somewhere in this big institutional system, and it doesn't make it any better to have them settled in Kecskemét. That's a problem for some people, because they have to commute, and a lot of people have given up, just don't have to go to places like this. I think that this debate day will be sensible and normal if we work together to think about which direction to turn the resources. Here Sándor Font mentioned that 60 percent is now economic development. That plan, Congressman, was 60 percent for us, but the crisis worked, and then we were glad it was 15 percent. Don't be proud, because one of your sayings isn't true: either it's not true that we spent all the money, or it's not true that you almost broke into it to pay the money. There was no mention of it, all sources were normally allocated, there was only one problem: when we fell into the middle of the crisis in economic development, we were also happy not to give back 90 percent of the applications because there was no bank funding, but you were very quiet about it. [[15.50]] It's not that world right now! You could have given it now, you could've given it 25 percent instead of 15 percent co-financing, you could've thought of doing this. I'm just saying once again, you have to get off the highway, you have to go out there with people, and you don't have to make a mechanical decision, because what they say about the operating structure - I don't want to go into this, but I'm happy to discuss it - it didn't get better because they took away the support over 1,200 hectares. Then why did you restore Mezőhegyes, Congressman? Why, if that sample is the one? No, we need to look at what is best for the development of a given region and not to target certain sectors. So I think we should stay on the course that the Minister has set up, because then we're better off than reading the demagogic texts of the propagandaists here. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-22-218	Thank you, Congressman Zoltán Gőgös. I now give the floor to Mr László Szászfalvi, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2017-05-22-219	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, For us, the Christian Democratic People's Party, the family is the foundation and future of our nation and society, we believe and know that the strengthening and support of families is for the rise of our nation. This is true in terms of strengthening the Hungarian countryside, because without strong families, without strong rural settlements - whether it be villages, small towns, county seats - Hungary cannot be strong. By 2010, Hungary, the Hungarian countryside, became indebted, the state was indebted between 2002 and 2010, public debt increased from 53 per cent to 83 per cent of GDP, the government's debt grew radically to 1400 billion forints, the family debt increased by five times between 2002 and 2010 and unemployment increased by two and a half times. The left-liberal governments at that time did nothing, even adding their inertia and inability to the problem, and the feeling of hopelessness became the dominant feeling. Dear House, The biggest challenge of the whole country, the Hungarian countryside, is the biggest, cycle-crossing task of the Hungarian politics to stop and reverse the negative demographic process. Since 2010, the civilian government has implemented a number of reforms, which have made the economy stronger and on the path to growth. Unemployment is constantly declining, and since the change of government, we have created 700 thousand new jobs. In order to protect families, we have introduced a reduction in overhead costs, we have launched an Erzsébet programme, we have expanded the free food and free textbook program in an extraordinary way, we have introduced a family tax system, we have launched a significant wage increase and tax reduction programme. These affected the majority of the Hungarian population living in the countryside in a positive way. The government is working on a new demographic family support programme, which, in its hope, will make the family support system even more effective. The government has dealt with and handled the situation in the Hungarian countryside. The national rural development strategy has been completed, which aims to renew rural Hungary. In addition, a number of domestic and EU funds have been set aside to raise and make rural Hungary more livable. Allow me, my fellow Members, to add to what has already been said on the government side in three areas. First of all, I would like to talk about catching up programmes. In the field of employment, we have transformed and expanded the social land programme, which is unique in European social policy. Over 7,800 families have started farming in this area in 32 settlements, compared to the 3500-4 000 sponsors of previous years. The woman who started to employ Roma women, 1012 Roma women in a field: kindergarten nanny, child carer, educator, child and youth supervisor, social career and nurse, social assistant. In order to halt and eradicate child poverty, the government has intervened in several areas with a number of programmes, mainly affecting the most disadvantaged small regions. These include children's welfare programmes to catch up with children, such as the "Secure start" children's homes and children's risk programs, and the broadening of children's meals. Integrated children's programmes have been launched to further reduce and prevent child poverty. In the field of education, support for Travel Scholarships, support for classrooms, gyms and educational programmes, the development of the Christian-Romanian professional college network, the expansion and significant increase of the school's operating programmes. Between 2012 and 2015, 178 schools supported the development of more than 5,000 disadvantaged students. Between 2016-18, a total of HUF 7.3 billion of EU funding takes place in more than 270 schools at least 5400, expected to compensate for the complex personality development and disadvantages of almost 7,000 students. With regard to Roma schools, the EFOP provides HUF 1.4 billion in support of the development of 11 Roma schools, then with the involvement of three hundred students. Secondly, I would like to mention the operational programme for environmental and energy efficiency, really just for a few sentences. The available budget is HUF 1161 billion, all of which has already been announced. In addition to calls for central resources, the calls for the CFP, building on local resources, are also important. These include the development of a local climate strategy, the development of a climate-conscious approach, calls for building energy calls, then calls for the development of district heating and local heat supply systems, as well as support for awareness-raising programmes. The third area on which I would like to give some thought is the area of tourism. Tourism is Hungary's strategic sector, and the government treats tourism as a strategic sector accordingly, and the government's support policy has been developed accordingly. Significant attraction and service-enhancing improvements have been made in the EU budget period 2007-13. A total of 1239 tourist projects won more than HUF 336 billion in funding. In the current EU cycle, tourism is also accompanied by an unprecedented level of domestic budgetary development resources in addition to EU funds. The destination approach is a new direction in tourism development as of 2017. This means that it is necessary to manage not a settlement but a unit that can be interpreted from a tourist point of view from a development point of view. The Hungarian Tourism Agency coordinates and determines the use of more than HUF 500 billion of domestic and EU funds in the period until 2020, which can be spent in the development of tourism in these destinations. The general strengthening and development of tourism is also hoped to mean the involvement and development of new areas, such as the development of tourism and ecotourism along the Drava as a priority tourist area in my constituency. [[In the notary seat, István Ikotity replaces Dezső, the believer.]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, as an individual Member of Parliament, to report in a few minutes on major developments in my own constituency. In my constituency, the Barcsi-based Somogy 2 constituency has two disadvantaged districts. Over the past two years, small and medium-sized enterprises have won more than HUF 3.5 billion from the GINOP tender for employment expansion, asset acquisition and other investments. Unemployment rates have decreased significantly both at district level and in towns and small towns. In recent years and in the few years ahead, applicants, in general local governments and private enterprises, can spend 1.4 billion for the development of tourism. In the area of transport development, road construction has been completed from 3.1 billion forints in the last two years and 845.8 million forints have been used for road renovations. [[16.00]] In 2017-18, approximately HUF 3 billion can be spent on road renovations in my constituency. In the area of cultural, health and sports development, HUF 6.7 billion has been used in recent years, and in the recent period, the municipalities concerned have won HUF 1.4 billion in cross-border development in Croatia and Hungary, which they can now begin to implement in the coming months. I would also like to mention that, although this may be a small source within the framework of such a great political debate day, I think it was very important that, in the 31 settlements of my constituency, during the Buda-Cash scandal period, the government provided some HUF 469 million in support to vulnerable municipalities that were in such a hopeless situation that they could have been unable to function. In the past four settlements around HUF 600 million has been used for energy efficiency renovation of municipal buildings and mayor's offices. In the last year alone, in my constituency, the Ministry of Interior supported the use and implementation of 720 million HUF. In this disadvantaged constituencies, a HUF 12.3 billion development is possible in terms of the current TOP developments, of which the decision has already been made for HUF 8 billion and these developments will be launched in the coming period. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Today, we will talk about the socio-economic convergence and development of the Hungarian countryside in a number of approaches, mostly from a financial, financial and economic point of view. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, allow me to mention one more important point. In our view and view, catching up and developing our rural settlements is not just an infrastructure issue. It is not just a matter of financial, financial and infrastructure catching up, it is at least so important that this development can also be made in the field of spiritual, intellectual, cultural and community development. In my experience that numerous initiatives, traditions and cultural programmes have been launched in this area too, community life has been stimulated. I'd like to share with you the little weekend experience that supports my statement. On Saturday, in one of Csurgo's 5500 enthusiastic small towns, we had a music academy-class, full-built choir concert, and on Sunday we had a small village of 283 people, a married, fantastic organ concert at the church of Porrogszentkirály. That was unthinkable a few years ago, decades ago. I am convinced that this organic, continuous spiritual, spiritual, cultural and community development is needed by the Hungarian countryside in parallel with material, infrastructural development, year by year, step by step. That's what we need in the countryside, not self-serving revolutionaries and nihilist anarchists. I take this opportunity to thank the thousands, tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands, municipalities, mayors, institutions and institutional leaders, civil society organisations, churches, entrepreneurs and farmers who make sacrifices for our communities in their daily efforts to raise the Hungarian countryside and our settlements. We Christian Democrats will continue to work on this, as we have done, in the past. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-22-220	Thank you, Congressman Szászfalvi. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group also indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Vona.
u2017-05-22-221	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Firstly, allow me to thank the LMP for its initiative. I am very happy that we can talk about this here, and I am very happy. But before I get to the point, allow me to make a comment at the very beginning. This debate between us today is about rural development, but let us not forget that our history has a tradition, an unfortunate tradition, which is the opposite between the capital and the countryside. Which I don't think is good. It's not good, because it's tuning the capital against each other with the people in the country. At the beginning of this debate, I ask myself, ourselves, not to live up to this contrast here, because the capital needs the countryside and the countryside needs the capital. I cannot imagine a successful Hungary where the capital is successful, but the countryside is unsuccessful, and I cannot imagine the other way around: Hungary cannot be successful even if the countryside is successful and the capital is unsuccessful. So we're dependent on each other, people in the capital, people in the countryside. I'm from the country, but I've been living in the capital for a long time. I think that there is a need to represent decent Hungarian people everywhere, to support decent Hungarian people everywhere, both in the capital and in the countryside. Turning to the countryside, since today's debate is about the countryside, it is a historical cliché that, when Hungarians were in trouble, the countryside was always the source of our survival. If the countryside is destroyed, the Hungarians will be destroyed, if the countryside is empty or disappears, then the Hungarians will be empty and disappear. So this topic, which we are discussing here today, is a very topical and very serious subject. My first statement is that the change of system may have been the biggest loser in the country. Countless data, countless numbers, I'm sure you know what I'd like to begin with. From time to time, there will be a ranking of competitiveness between regions in the European Union, between 263 EU regions. If we look at the seven Hungarian regions, we can see that the other six regions are in the order number 263 after the number 200, except for the Budapest region in Central Hungary. Central Transdanubia is 205, Western Transdanubia is 207, and these regions are even stronger in the Hungarian context. Then comes the very, very serious downfall, the South Great Plain of 224, the South Transdanubia of 227, North Hungary of 231, and the North Great Plain of 232 of these 263 EU regions. These are alarming numbers, honourable Members. But if we look, for example, at the location and number of public workers at national level, we see that the number of public works in these regions is higher than at the most fortunate points in the country, which shows that a permanent, permanent break from the competition sector in these areas has unfortunately become a career model. According to the latest survey in Budapest, the value of investments per capita can be measured at HUF 406 thousand. If you look at Baranya County, it's only 80 thousand forints, one fifth of the value of Budapest. In Szabolcs there are only 70,000, and in Nógrád there are only 57,000, i.e. one eighth of the value of Budapest. I'll give you another data. The construction production per capita in Budapest is 149 thousand forints, in Nógrád it is only 15 thousand forints, so it is only a tenth of the capital's data. Like I said, these data could continue. I will not do it, for this is what Minister János Lázár did for me, whose speech on the government's part was much more a desperate cry for help than government propaganda. He himself classified alarming data, numbers. He may have failed to consult with Antal Rogán, but the Minister of Propaganda did not help him out with a more positive speech. But to get back to the subject, we can safely say that there is a lack of basic conditions for a safe, viable life in the countryside. Access to school, health care, decent jobs that pay competitive wages, and in many cases even public utilities are the 21st. In the century, transport, infrastructure, postal services are not built upwards, but downwards. There is a very serious lack of institutions, the possibility of cultural life in the countryside is becoming more and more zero. Listening to some positive statements from the KDNP here, of course, but believe me, Congressman, unfortunately, rural cultural life is not about the frequency of organ competitions you mentioned, unfortunately. The issue of area payments would also be an EU development opportunity to keep people in place, to keep them at home, to keep them in the countryside, but unfortunately, instead of this task or purpose of the area payment scheme, it has helped the green barons to make undeserving wealth over the past period. [[16.10]] It is important to mention these difficult and serious data and these facts - because these are facts; this is not the Jobbik's opinion, these are the facts that I spoke about here - because the current governing coalition, the Fidesz-KDNP, was responsible for the country's election victory in 2010 and 2014, and I must say that you have not thanked for this. In the first cycle, a National Rural Strategy 2012-2020 was born, which could have been the constitution of the countryside. Let me tell you, there were a lot of points in that and a lot of thoughts that we would have liked to have supported ourselves, even the good guys. In fact, at the time, the name of József Ángyán was a kind of guarantee of change, a real strengthening of rural development, but then the years passed, and what happened? József Ángyán was banished from the government; the national rural strategy fell to the bottom of the branch, and rural development was lagging behind. In fact, in 2014, the Ministry of Rural Development also ceased, changed its name to the Ministry of Agriculture, and rural development rather than being an integrated part of their governance, was defocused and thrown around various points of the administration, which could, of course, be explained by some kind of structural reform, but unfortunately, the suspicion that this could only be intended to hide the funds that could be stolen during rural development as much as possible. This is how rural development has unfortunately become a hotbed for corruption, and rural development has become a rural destruction. It makes the situation particularly serious, however, that strong people in the government, the already mentioned Minister János Lázár, are fighting his battles regularly with Mayor István Tarlós and even with Antal Rogán's fellow minister, but I do not want to continue this line. What's the solution? The solutions will be described in detail by my fellow Members in the time frame available to us. Allow me to mention only two things that I have in the time frame. One: If Jobbik wins the elections in 2018, and it will, then it will create a country development map on the basis of its governance. And this map of country development would be about having a road sign, a map that will guide the long-term economic development strategy or even rural development strategy, taking into account the characteristics, conditions and opportunities of the smallest regions in the country. I must say that, unfortunately, you lack such a concept in your economic development strategy or even in your rural development strategy. What you're doing is a management of SPA: robbing the country as quickly as possible. The other thing I would like to propose, and I would ask for your support, is our wage union proposal, because in order for the countryside to remain, we need competitive European wages, whether for public sector workers, for small and medium-sized enterprises or for workers in multinational companies. I told you about that today. I ask you to be able to step out of your party political straitjackets; support the proposal of the Wages Union, and not only that Hungarian wages catch up to Western European wages, but also that the wage differences within the country, which are shown at the expense of the countryside, should be eliminated and rural wages should be able to catch up at least in terms of Hungarian cities, cities or Western wage levels. So I would ask you to try to find as much constructive points, common points and common issues as possible in this debate today. I would like to tell you that rural development is not a party political issue for Jobbik, but a national issue, so if anyone has any proposal, on the part of any party that we think is good and is saved from the point of view of the country, the nation, the people, then we will support it, because our philosophy has always been: we must not look at where the proposal comes from, but at whether it is good for Hungarians. That is how we stand in this debate, and I ask you to do the same. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-22-222	Thank you very much, Mr Party President Gábor Vona, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2017-05-22-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Listening to Minister Lázár's exposé, for a moment I was afraid that, when he was going to sit down, this speech would be deducted from Jobbik's time frame, because he often raised such tough and totally legitimate expectations for the government and expressed criticisms that cannot be bypassed when we discuss a debate day on the situation in the countryside. However, it is sad that we had to listen to all this from the minister who, by the way, has been the minister of the government for seven years and has been responsible for the resources that should play a decisive role in ensuring that this sad situation does not exist and that the Hungarian countryside can finally catch up. Unfortunately, rural life in Hungarian public thinking has become equal to the disadvantage. This is the real tragedy, and I think we have a lot to talk about today. After all, there will be a way to look at what has become of your earlier promises - and I can promise you that we will also talk about this - and to talk about how domestic and EU resources have improved or have not really improved the situation in the countryside. Just as an important question is how our rural communities lost their vision, how they often became a symbol of hopelessness. The vulnerability of the countryside is not just an agricultural situation, as many have already pointed out today. In many ways, this problem arises from it, but certainly not exclusively. And the responsibility of the Fidesz government in this is a good indication that they have the highest confidence in the countryside. In order to prevent 2010 it was you who promised to finish the past, to finish the liberal left-wing government policy built on the exploitation and neglect of the countryside. That is why they have been given this enormous trust and responsibility, and that is why the opposition to the countryside today is so repulsive and so brutal. A few hundred lucky little kings of the country, a lawyer near the government who had lost his life in Budapest, and an entrepreneur with an unsettling past who fled to the countryside - besides them, there is not much credit for living in the countryside today, for those who want to stay in the countryside. In this, you have a very serious failure, and often your intention, because in building a new landlord system, you didn't care about what would happen to the country's millions, all that mattered was what friends would get from this new landlord system. And I would like to turn a little to agriculture here, because if agriculture works well, then I believe that the countryside has its foundation, and from then on ascension is an easier process, because it is the earth that produces the opportunity for as many people as possible to live a quality life in the countryside today. In this regard, I must start by saying that there is complete conceptual confusion. In seven years this House has failed to clarify what the small means, what the medium family farmer means. We talk about each other all the time. The government refuses to define these concepts, so I have to say that I have to start from what we can see, which is the reality, which is the practice, in your opinion, that people who are dominant in some settlements, over 1-2 thousand hectares, are small and medium-sized family farmers, because they are highlighted in communication and the resources are added to them. The lack of these laws, so that we have not defined what is small, medium and family farmers, has led you to be able to lie here, to communicate here in Parliament without lying, because they have not told you what the beneficiary circle is in practice, how many hectares it means, what sectors it means, and what they expect of these people, what kind of refunds they can get for the people in the countryside. We need to talk about many applications, the sum of which is indeed significant, which can be estimated at hundreds of billions - depending on how narrowly we take rural development - but these are in no way satisfactory. Otherwise, we shouldn't have held this debate either. It was very interesting here in the series of pro-government speeches to maintain agricultural land as an important concept and an important goal - this is where they failed the ugliest. I believe that if we had held today's debate three years ago, even you pro-government representatives would not have thought that three years later we would have been able to get to the point where there was virtually no land left for the Hungarian nation outside the nature reserves; practically there would be no guarantee for the Hungarian people, our grandchildren, that would provide an opportunity for food security, would give us an opportunity to change the demographic and social situation in the countryside. This is a truly amazing situation, and all of this has been done and it has come to this because you have had an argument with a former entrepreneur, to whom significant production areas have been allocated, and since legislation cannot be made to take back the lease only from X.Y., you have been able to sell all the production areas. But the same is the case with regard to subsidies. [[Dr. István Nagy intervenes.]] And now I'm talking about last year, which can no longer be blamed on social-liberal governments. [[16.20]] The majority of rural development funding, about two thirds, was won by the narrowest, richest, most attractive 10-15 percent. Unprecedented, brutal disproportion! This will not lead to rural development, but to the further development of the landlord system. We will discuss these facts and these figures for the rest of the debate day. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-22-224	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Magyar. I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2017-05-22-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First and foremost, let me thank my fellow Members who helped and supported this debate. I think we are talking about a very important subject. Now, when there has been a construction proposal in the last few weeks, which has supported the licensing of apartments over 300 square meters, there has been national standardisation, official statistics on billing, civil law, CEU, transfer of state-owned property, so it could happen once in a while about things that directly affect the lives of Hungarian people. Once we can talk about the Hungarian countryside and the people living there and their fate, what the next decade or two will bring them. I would like to thank Minister János Lázár for his introduction, because he has provided very, very important data to the Parliament, which is important that they have been said here. At the same time, I'm a little sorry that your last sentence was that you were ready for the debate, because what do I think of a man who tells you to come out in front of the pub, and then when I get out, you'll run away and get out of there. [[Zoltán Grimlock: He assessed his chances!]] This is certainly instructive about how we can talk about the countryside, but I trust that my fellow Members and the State Secretary's Faculty will help me out with this. I would like to start by saying that the countryside, as a scene, is not only an economic and agricultural site, but it is always a decisive part of the Hungarians, the nation. It is not only a commodity area, but also a location for natural resources, biodiversity, where the economy that a country can achieve is based. I wanted to mention this on purpose because today there is no mention in Parliament of today's World Biodiversity Day. On World Biodiversity Day, we need to talk about natural resources on which a sustainable economy can be built in the long term. In the course of today, I trust that this will be the case, whether we look at the situation of the population of the Hungarian countryside and the Hungarian countryside historically, or if we look to the future. Allow some data, which are partly said, and partly it is good to sum it up. These will be simple facts, which are based on direct statistical research, and are now largely characteristic of the situation in the Hungarian countryside. Let's start with the wages. It has already been said that if a person is born in Hungary in a rural area, say Szabolcs, he will earn half as much as if he is looking for a job in the central region. He's gonna make half a buck just because he was born there and he's looking for a job there. 99 percent of the new jobs announced in Szabolcs are supported at the moment, which means that they are either closely linked to subsidies, agricultural subsidies, agricultural subsidies, EU subsidies or to a statistically significantly higher proportion of public work. Poverty: In terms of median wages since 2010, according to Eurostat data, Hungary produces the second worst, Greece is the only one behind us, and incomes have increased more everywhere else. The worst hourly rates are almost in Hungary, and we owe the fifth worst, Romania, Bulgaria, Latvia and Lithuania are behind us, and everyone else in the EU earns significantly more in an hour. President Vona has already spoken in detail about GDP per capita. It is simply a matter of fact that in the 263 European Union regions, North Hungary, North Great Plain, South Great Plain and South Transdanubia are among the worst. I trust that my better fellow Member will bring the problems of Somogy to Parliament today, because it is important to talk about them from time to time, how Hungarians live. But not only do we have such data on GDP per capita, the competitiveness index shows the same extent of the region's ability to be economically attractive, and Hungary produces the worst data and the third worst in the whole EU. It is also worth talking about emigration. There are different figures; so far, the Institute of Population Research has put the number of this number to 335 thousand, and György Matolcsy, as Minister, has placed it above 500,000. The latest communication in January 2016 was based on Eurostat, with a total of 410 000 people in the EU countries who legally took up work, and this does not include data from France and Spain, because they did not send data to Eurostat, and these are only legal workers. The Hungarian Central Statistical Office estimates that another 680 thousand people aged 18-40 are planning to leave the country, who have already thought about it, and 370 thousand would specifically leave the first option as soon as they receive data from Western Hungary. If we are talking about demographic data, then there is obviously also a need to talk about population ageing conditions, as experts from the Institute of Population Sciences predicted that, on average, Hungarians would fall to 7.9 million under optimal conditions in 2060, to 8.69 million at best and 6.7 million at worst. Here the Deputy Director of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office wrote that by 2050 Hungarians who lived in the Carpathian Basin could be halved. With regard to infrastructure, we have one of the worst rural infrastructure across Europe, which concerns access to public services, the road network. The property structure, I think, will still be debated today, but it has one of the worst data in the European Union, and here we are also the fifth worst, 64.44 percent of the estate over 100 hectares, and this is only 1.69 percent of the holders. Minister Lazarus referred to Austria as an example of how they would do it differently. There is the same number where they were allowed to grow above 100 hectares, 16,4 percent, so about a quarter of them are allowed in the Hungarian ownership structure. The poor agricultural structure is also a very important issue, since it has always had an impact on employment in the countryside. How we have increased our gardening sectors, how we have given space to small producers, how the irrigation infrastructure has changed in recent years, how much money we have made in the occupational sectors, how intensive animal farming has reduced jobs on traditional extensive animal farming opportunities, and how everything has had a bearing on food safety. Only in 2016 the elimination of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary broke the record three times in the case of disappearing small farms. In particular, if we look at agriculture alone, since 2010, nearly 10 percent of agricultural producers under five have disappeared from Hungary without a significant reduction in employment, which means that small owners have gone to large owners, so the world of employees has grown. Centralisation and centralization have increased in Hungary, with district systems they have to travel 20-30-40 kilometres from the smallest settlements to achieve basic care. In school education, it is not uncommon at all - even in January when they were the biggest minuses - that at dawn young children at age 6, 7 and 8 expect a bus at a bus stop to get into school 10 to 20 kilometers away. In the county of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, there are 36 settlements with a total of one home doctor, and some have gynaecological treatment once a month. All these trends constantly show us that whether we like it or not, and I apologize, I have not yet been there to blame anyone, I am only talking about processes in the country, that we have to talk about an ageing, depopulated, poorer Hungarian countryside, in which feudal relations will become increasingly characteristic, whoever created it, created it by any government, some large estates, some large businesses, some prominent people could have the opportunity to change their own fate, and this has created an inequality of opportunity that has created in Hungary that is not the origin, not the sex of persons, but the place of birth is the greatest inequality that is created. Today in Hungary, a man belonging to a majority community, born in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, has a much less chance than a woman in any minority, let's say, of being born in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén. or XII. in the district. Most people cannot overcome the disadvantage caused by regional differences and see only leaving as a solution. Obviously, we need to talk about these problems, and if we are here in Parliament now, we need to talk about everything about the current government and its responsibilities at some level. Twenty-seven years have passed since the change of regime, 11 of which were directly controlled by Fidesz in Hungary. If I add MDF years, because István Nagy, Secretary of State, my fellow Member, Mr Font Sándor, former MDFs are also here, then we can talk about 15 years, which means that more than half of them have been given by right-wing governments of this kind, and obviously the responsibility must be determined at some level. At the moment, the government has apparently given up on the villages. In small villages, it is not possible to campaign effectively, campaign, see the possibility of allocating resources, EU funds per capita, if you look at these settlements that apply to small settlements, here is the worst in the whole country. Obviously, if there are more than a thousand dwarf villages in Hungary, where the population is less than 500 people, and even 200 people in a further 309 villages, then we can see that there is obviously a difficult task ahead of us. The only question is that the kind of approach that Minister János Lázár attributed to former liberal politicians has affected the current government's approach, because, whatever we look at, responsibility appears. [[16.30]] The wage policy: Fidesz-KDNP has been the most important competitiveness in Hungary for seven years. It's a wage policy for the government. Does this have an effect on the need to leave the country? The misplaced estate policy continues to favour the greats, and today the conditions are worse than in feudal conditions in 1935, since clearly the proportion of large estates and holdings over 100 hectares has become significantly worse than in 35 ha. The fact that the Hungarian state has created the land grabbing of foreigners is simply a matter of fact: the fact that the greats have continued to grow is a matter of fact. The three- and four-digit routes have been almost completely excluded from the. Modern Cities programme in the past period, which is known from press statements, although according to the data of the National Road Databank, the road quality is poor in more than half and 51.2 percent of the Hungarian roads are poor in terms of road quality and 11.8 percent of the surface is inadequate, which can only be used with speed limits. More than 60 percent of these settlements are unattainable, while public transport is not developing in substance, and let's say - just last week we were discussing this with Secretary of State Fónagy - Szarvas and Mezőtúr or between Kisújszállás and Kisköre the same small diesel locomotive travels as when it was created. Obviously, if we do not improve public transport and road transport, it will be very, very difficult to make a meaningful change here. Minister Lazarus mentioned that there are 350 thousand properties for sale throughout the countryside, yet the CSOK specifically helps families to migrate from rural areas in current trends. Your support policy didn't help you with this family support, but helped you to sell your country property worth a few million dollars and go to Western Transdanubia or the central region. The question is obviously what results have been achieved by this benign or well-meaning family support system. It would be a mistake not to talk about the responsibility of EU funds, as you know that, since there has been EU support in Hungary, the intention of the governing parties at all, the inefficiencies of the subsidies, the fact that the support goes to where it is least needed, the people who have the power to advance these funds will have access. It was interesting, one of my fellow Members mentioned the farm programme as a domestic unicum or as a Hungarian specialty. Indeed, it is special that we maintain restaurants selling shark fins on the V. district market, as this is typically an example of these government measures that could be a symbol of this whole aid. Obviously, we still need to talk more about what Putin's puppet government promises Hungary, what Fidesz-KDNP promises the Hungarian countryside and how it will change. So far you have campaigned with one word, it is time to play openly, what the Hungarian countryside can expect, and what the fate of the people in the countryside will be. Minister János Lázár spoke about the challenges of the global world. This challenge is constantly increasing with each job creation when you are installing a capitalist from abroad, and with the exposure of the foreign economy, the chances of the Hungarian countryside are increasing. Minister Lazarus said that they voted for EU accession so that they could work. But why do you have to work abroad? Why can't you create conditions like that at home? Why must mobility be strengthened, why can't jobs be put in place? Why do we need a policy of support that does not strengthen this? I just wanted to say to Minister Lázár about the SZDSZ and his liberal thoughts that at the moment there are zero representatives in the LMP, who had something to do with the SZDSZ, which cannot be said about Fidesz, as one of their spokespersons is an ex-SZDSZ politician. So the ideology that is thinking about the fate of the Hungarian countryside and the Hungarian village must certainly be considered as having a better chance in your ranks or in ours. It's a very, very important thought in my last moments to point out one more thing. Specifically, Minister, he has very, very rightly mentioned the national rural strategy. Very fast: I printed the indicator table from the national rural strategy, which is one of my favorite publications [[He's showing it to me.]] and I have practically appointed to Minister the things in which the results are worse than those planned for 2020 and in which there is no result. 90 percent of the indicators are worse, and if we look at it from rural areas that achieve good ecological status through biodiversity, migration to education, then I have to say that your rural policy performance so far is unfortunately insufficient, because in the indicators of the goals that you have set yourself and not the opposition, you cannot achieve. Nevertheless, I would also like to talk, if possible, in a constructive professional debate about what we can do for all those who cannot do for themselves, and this in the lines of the Fidesz-KDNP, where most or almost exclusively the members of the rural parliament have been elected, what else we can do in the next year to ensure that these processes are not strengthened. In this, I ask for your mutual thought, your support in this. I ask you to think, as far as possible, of people who will never watch parliamentary mediation in rural villages, who are not interested in politics, who have not yet heard of political parties, who you do not reach, but who are all good Hungarians, and who just want to work where they were born. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] where their grandparents' grave is. I need your support on this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-05-22-226	Thank you, Congressman Sallai. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room, no one's applied for a two-minute speech. Dear Parliament, Statement by each of its representatives will now take place, as announced in writing by the factions. But before that, Honourable Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Mr Péter Harrach has informed me that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party has renounced its further timeframe in the political debate for the benefit of the Fidesz Group. I would ask the staff to modify the timeframes as announced. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Congressman Péter Csizi, Fidesz.
u2017-05-22-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear from the debate that when we talk about the situation, the problem and the future of the municipalities outside Budapest, we cannot go past the fact that we have been looking at what has been going on in the last 10 to 12 years. We need to look at how we got to 2010 and what we inherited from governments before 2010 in terms of the local government world and what happened from 2010 until now. Socialist government was practically closed by school, hospital and post office, and we started our rural programme in practically the same state in 2010, which is still running today, and the results of which I will present to my fellow Members from the examples of place in the coming period on the basis of concrete facts. Our basic principle, unlike the socialists, is that we do not want to say what is good for the municipalities outside Budapest, but that we decide their problems, their developments, their requests in consultation with them and in dialogue with them. This is what debt consolidation has been all about in recent years, and this is what the regional and local development operational programmes are all about, which we briefly call TOPs and local TOPs, and that is what it is about, which concerns big cities, as well as the "Modern Cities" programme, and I would like to briefly say a few words about these three areas myself. Let's start with the basics. The funds started with government debt consolidation, as the biggest mistake and the biggest sin of socialist governments was that they forced local governments and local municipalities to take out loans based on Swiss francs or euros in addition to families. They were forced to borrow in two areas and were indebted to two areas, if not all, but a significant part of the municipalities. One of them was underfunding: in the context of facts prepared at the time of socialist governments, everyone knows and remembers well that the mandatory public tasks that the municipalities have to carry out have not received the necessary support to carry out the basic task. So, at this time, the municipalities had to have a large number of operational loans in many places, and I cannot stress that they were to be taken on a Swiss franc or euro basis. The other major problem, which began at these times, is to be found in the EU funding system when local settlements had to carry out a very serious dilemma with them. [[16.40]] Mayors, bodies of representatives and the general public had to decide what to do: take advantage of the historical opportunity and try to solve their local problems through EU funding, but to do so, they must be able to provide considerable self-esteem, and they could only do so on expensive loans, or they do not take advantage of this historic opportunity. So the first and most important task was debt consolidation in ordering rural municipalities, and until December 2013, 2082 municipalities paid a debt of HUF 1369 billion. Then we could start with the upgrades. It is also important to note that the government had two goals in the context of the municipal debt consolidation: on the one hand, we wanted to maintain and maintain the burden-free state - that was what the Stability Act was about - and, on the other hand, it is important that, in the spirit of justice, the municipalities who had not had consolidation, who had managed well before, we launched a special development plan for them, which resulted in an additional subsidy of HUF 46 billion for the municipality of 2309 until 2017. Turning to development and development, improvements were made between 2010 and 17 for more than HUF 10.5 billion. Of this, the counties and county-righted cities received HUF 1,800 billion, and HUF 1230 billion for rural development. However, it is also important to note the territorial operational programmes, as territorial operational programmes are precisely what I have just mentioned as a criticism that we would like to spend our European Union resources in such a way that we specifically serve local affairs and solve specific problems that have appeared in that settlement for one, two or even three decades. During the period before the regional operational programmes, when the settlements started out in central tenders from Budapest, we found in many cases that they competed with each other, and what Congressman Gögös said in his speech as keynote speaker that the settlements no longer speak to each other, besides many other reasons, can be traced back to the time when hundreds or thousands of settlements tried to shoot, try to apply, in some cases, for a proposal in Budapest, and, in fact, with the previous EU application system, they achieved that in some cases, the opponents of the settlements were true to the Members, unfortunately they became enemies of each other. Nevertheless, we are now at a point where regional and operational development programmes have already been designed on the basis of the prepared development strategies, guarantees and concepts of county-righted cities and counties, and we already know that by 2020 we will spend 1185,7 billion forints to achieve the goals of the 18 counties and 22 county-righted cities. You can already see precisely the cities, including - I am a Member of the Parliament of Pécs - of course I will also highlight Pécs, and we can see exactly what schedule we can solve problems that our predecessors have promised for decades. And, of course, European Union funds are not sufficient for everything, but that is why the government has started the metropolitan area with the involvement of modern cities. The programme "Modern Cities" envisages virtually a development structure and objectives where there are no European Union constraints, and a number of settlements, like my city, Pécs, can also implement virtually programs for which previous governments have always had the reason that the European Union does not provide funds, the European Union does not give money. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, I find that 2 thousand schools and 22 universities have been renewed in Hungary, outside Budapest, and there have been more than 100 hospitals, there have been improvements, enlargements or modernizations, there have been 600 kilometers of new and renewed 2,100 kilometers of roads, and the Hungarian countryside has also been enriched with 1243 kilometers of cycling routes. The facts do not show what you have expressed as criticism; despite the fact that we can see where we are going, and we can see exactly what developments we would like to see outside Budapest. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-22-228	Thank you very much, Congressman Chizi. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor István Harangozó, MSZP.
u2017-05-22-229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I must also begin by responding to the words of John Lazarus. I must be honest, I was outraged by what you said, Minister. And that's because to me it was the message that he said that we've created addictions in the country over the last seven years, through which we can ensure that people go and vote for Fidesz, take them away because they depend on Fidesz in public work or in other situations, they're in a vulnerable position, their system has been built up, thank you very much, it works well, we can now also see what problems there are in the countryside and what should be done. From what Minister Lazarus said, he seemed to understand a lot of things, he could do a lot of things, but you didn't do it, you built the system I was talking about. Because, honourable Members, I think it is a difficult fact to argue that, as has already been said today, the region is a great loser of the regime change. Before the change of regime, the countryside was an extremely well-functioning system. The agriculture that operated the countryside was the world's leading edge, it was recorded among the first three world-wide, and in practice, after agriculture did not generate capital income but generated community income, they managed education, health, public lighting, roads, everything from this income and a well-organized system. This is basically how a functioning system was set up. When this fell apart after the change of regime, my fellow Members, the biggest problem is that it has not been figured out what will make the Hungarian countryside work. A million people lost their jobs, virtually without resources, the municipalities. They were given assignments, but somehow the system didn't work out. What I consider the biggest problem today is that to date, the system that could operate the Hungarian countryside has not come together. Since then, there have been developments, such as the huge withdrawal of funds from agriculture at the time of the change of regime, thanks to EU funds, which is why agriculture is constantly developing, but still far from its prime, while the villages have not yet been able to figure out what will happen, what will make it work. Therefore, my fellow Members, a very serious ghettoism, poverty is affecting the Hungarian countryside today. If we put in our imagination a map of where the outer and internal peripherals are in Hungary, so from a regional development point of view, the most backward areas, where the distance of cities, the state of roads, the availability of public services are considered a peripheral area, where the poorest settlements are, and on a third map we add where the Roma population is concentrated today, if we put these three maps together, they will be covered with each other. Therefore, dear fellow Members, if we see that these problems, such as rural poverty, the break-down of Roma and the disadvantage of these areas, if we want to change them, we must admit that we can only change them in a regional way, with regional development, if you will, with local economic development. If the problems are regional, we can only solve them in a regional approach. During the previous period, there were good and bad examples of a settlement to change the situation. The problem is that good examples can also be shown today and many failures, where even when good processes have started, these processes have generally failed. [[16.50]] And while there was an intention that the locals would somehow try to break out of it, there was also some state aid to it, there was no system solution. That is when we arrived at the accession of the European Union, and unfortunately I must say that, although accession to the European Union has contributed significantly to the modernisation of agriculture, it has not only reduced the fall of the countryside, but strengthened it, my fellow Members. The way it works today is that where there is better co-financing capacity, so there is money to get into the projects, there is adequate human capital, human resources to generate projects, money goes there. Going to the smallest villages is something, of course, beautiful villages and churches are renewed, but while the development centers are making a lot of money, they are developing quickly, in these less-favoured smaller areas and settlements much less money goes, much less development, so the difference is increasing. Today, Hungary is so divided that I am practically convinced that if we cannot stop this process, the country will not be able to operate democratically after a while. And the extremely cynicism, I think, is that Fidesz sees this clearly, but he doesn't do this by trying to catch up in a forced way, if necessary, on the break-up regions, but he is eliminating democracy. He's developing these addictions so he can control the countryside and preserve its power. So I think these things need to be changed. First of all, we need to finish spending catch-up money in a tender system. Today, virtually by putting out competitive tenders, complex improvements cannot be made. It is very possible that complex developments will take place. In Europe, they have moved on to a number of places, such as Poland's very clever way of funding programmes: for seven years they decide in advance what problems the region has, how these problems should be dealt with, what local economic development is envisaged for the given region, and they create a well-structured programme, and then they only need to be asked to take these steps on the ground. So, first of all, programme funding would make much more sense than these competing proposals, which we have in Hungary today. The next problem is that the lesson is that, despite any extra support or extra points, capital does not go into disadvantaged areas, it simply cannot be brought in there. If it does not work, we must not experiment with what other programmes we can advertise, but with the State to intervene, and where there is no market-based job creation, the state must create jobs. This is where the social economy plays an important role. No misunderstanding, I am convinced that the public work programme has an important role to play in building the social economy, a good zero step. But it is also necessary to create the possibility of moving forward from those who, say, in a social cooperative system, which can be supported by a hundred percent of EU money, to operate and pay in a degressive system, so that they can quickly become marketable over time, so that a social economic development is added to the public work programme in order to create sustainable jobs. But yes, what I was talking about is that the problem is that there are good examples of this today, but it will only work - if we put back the missing system, which today plagues the countryside terribly that it is not included in the system - if it doesn't depend on whether there is a good mayor or an entrepreneur in a given settlement who has a good idea and can create something good, but we need to create a system of institutions at district level that can support them, which can put them behind knowledge, put them behind logistics, help build a market, not only for the social economy, but also for local small and micro-enterprises, can create the right integration not only in agriculture, but also in other activities. So programmes, social economy and the missing system. Fourthly, it is important to think about local economic development, and local economic development can only work by strengthening local communities, so efforts and steps must also be taken to strengthen local communities, because if locals do not feel they have these programmes, they will not implement them on their own, they will never be implemented centrally. In addition, local economic development can work if there is local income production. Local energy production can also play an important role in this, so I think it is necessary to launch a social green economy development programme that provides local small settlements, especially disadvantaged areas, with a potential for energy generation, so that they can generate revenue from it. This can also be an important complement to local economic development and, above all, employment must also be increased through agriculture by linking regional development aid to employment. Dear fellow Members, territorial development aid is not for anyone who has income and can make a living on it to be richer, but for those who are able to help live on the ground in the countryside, to support local prosperity, and that is possible if we tell the actors in agriculture and encourage them to receive area support if they are employed, if they are not employed, then they are not. Of course, I am not naive either, besides the modernisation of agriculture, it is not necessarily possible to achieve additional employment in agriculture, but the agricultural operator who has many areas and assumes other employment, if you like the former branch system, but a new type of solution to this, which can be financed from EU funds, creates jobs from it... - you can receive as a bonus, if you like, the area payments as well. Finally, I would just like to say that Minister Lazarus said that we should look at the neighbouring Austria, how well it works. Yes, Austria has done its own cooperative system, Austria is well organized, and the whole thing in Austria is based on the local economy, on a level that if you go into, say, Burgenland the hairdresser will take off eggs with a Burgenland stamp, because you know that if you take it off, you will support the local farmer, and if the local farmer has an income, then you will also be able to get a hairdresser. If we can build the entire complex system of this local economic development from energy to eggs with the seal of the local product on it, then we will be able to revive the Hungarian countryside. That is all I wanted to add to today's debate, and I hope that we will still be able to debate such thoughts here today, thank you very much for listening.
u2017-05-22-230	Thank you, Congressman Bellozó. Mr Sándor Kovács Fideszes is next. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-22-231	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear members of the Government, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that has been said in the expozee, in several comments, rural development is not just agriculture; we need to talk about a complex rural development, which is a very united, very organic, very living natural community, with every individual, every community, which is the smallest community of the family. I think that this sanctity of the family is what we, pro-government politicians, think of as the foundation for a national identity that is capable of creating cohesion and unity in Hungary, primarily in rural Hungary, which can see complexly. Perhaps even with an old wise proverb that comes with us, let me say that a good neighbor is better than a distant bad relative, because I think that in these small communities, when we talk about village or countryside, helping each other, caring for each other and helping the other rests on a natural inner feeling, a complex vision that I think - and I apologize to the metropolitans - may have faded a little in the metropolitan people, because that community has become faceless. This is precisely what gives me the hope that if we look at rural development programmes by the Hungarian government, or even the dismemberment of the rural development programmes of European Union funds, or their development direction, then I think that this way will be illustrated in any way, because if I translate it, then the individual who is part of a community from those European Union funds will be able to agree with my fellow Member Harangozó's sentence, as he will produce a local product or service, which hopefully will be bought by local people, or if we talk about tourism, will be used by a guest from another region, but in any case the money will be spent there, the economy will be created there. [[17.00]] We can immediately come to the conclusion that this organic society is a unity that makes everything, the individual, the family, the community, a street or a village, or perhaps a constituency, my lord! includes all its infrastructures. After all, children have to go to kindergartens, social meals or all the other social... - in the budgetary debate we are slowly in it or are still in it, paying attention, I think that we should watch those social movements if I want to express them very simply, it is true that everything is connected to everything. After all, I believe that these infrastructure investments are part of the social movements, mobility, conditions for living, or, as we have set out to improve the quality of life of the rural people, what environmental resources we can mobilise to improve the quality of life for these people. The TOP is a good example of this, and let me take an example from my own constituency. Szabolcs 0.5 is the encoded constituency. Szabolcs 0.5 is also called the municipal regional development association, which, on my initiative, was composed of 44 mayors, from all mayors, regardless of political orientation or political position; where we met and discussed the investments needed by the constituency, whether in the form of economic, municipal or individual enterprises, how the municipal system can contribute to the economic development from which we can create a more livable, sustainable region. Let me tell you that the settlements have agreed not to step on each other's toes, not to take advantage of each other, and practically based on the feedback, 44 applications have already been returned from 139. The joint efforts of the mayors are happy that we are not against each other, but that we exist side by side and try to coordinate the development directions that are characteristic of those regions, since Szatmár, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County is a very disadvantaged region in Szatmár. But let me give you some numbers. In the 2007-13 cycle 82 billion were spent in that programme. There's an EAOP program coming out of this, which meant 21 billion in the county. But we also need to list a 38 billion-dollar number of KEOP, the environment and energy operational programme, and the amount of TÁMOP programmes that are about 9.3 billion to catch up on the marginal break-downs. Let us say that there is a very high proportion of Roma society, but it is also apparent that applications have been well used either in applications or in the employment and financing of target groups, disabled people, disadvantaged people who have actually been involved in them. But I would also mention the Tiop worth 5.4 billion forints. By 2014-20, a number of available figures should be allowed. 142 projects from my constituency were received in the EFOP programme. The number of projects currently supported is 23 and the grant granted is 2.4 billion. From GINOP, how part of this organic unit is the economic and innovative operational programme or the enterprise sector, let me highlight two. Since it is very large and very famous, the poultry-Coop Kft., which wants to produce or build the largest feed mixer in Eastern Europe with an investment of 8.5 billion, contributes to the economic operators, with the added value of the products produced here, the processing value of which we can develop the poultry sector or the agricultural sector. But let me add value, let me say another, BIO-VITAL 2017 Kft., which wants to make Hungary's first pectin plant worth 4.2 billion HUF, which has already received HIPA support, the source is available to promote employment and to increase the added value of the processing of apples to Szatmár's gold in the area of Csenger. But I could also list those economic operators, the optomechanical cluster in Mátészalka, Hoya, Zeiss and other large lens companies that are world-famous and promote employment. But I could talk about the Dot, which is also related to Matthew Salka, with the mention of FrieslandCampina, with which we are trying, in very close cooperation, to stimulate local economies that can contribute to the viability of this region. I think that I have been able to shed light on all that I want to sum up, a kind of national identity, which flows from us - I'm sorry to say so - that the national identity of the Satmarian person may be a little overindulgent, because once again, I think it gives the kind of cohesion of the local community, or even the community of the country, on which one can rely, which I mentioned with the example of a good neighbour. After all, this identity is both an emotional, psychic, willing being from within, but also a physical attitude. If we look at the rural peasants who used to be able to work day long in white shirts, black lairs or coats, which in the days of socialists or socialism were followed by the term kulas; I think they were the tiny seeds of these productive communities, or the cohesion of these communities, and they were proud of the stand that we try to express as a national identity or as a national identity. But it includes a kind of spiritual stand that can be defined either by the resurgence of the roots of faith, the Christian faith. After all, these rural people are still proud to go to the church, to pray, or to stand up for the community we call rural Hungary. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Ladies and gentlemen. I think that the living Hungary and the government who want to do everything for rural development are doing their best, and all the resources available in the 2014-20 cycle are at the disposal of the rural people who want to do it, whether they are local governments, businesses or people who want to do it individually. I trust we can make good use of it, and the quality of life of the people living there will be improved. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-232	Thank you very much. Welcome, good afternoon. On behalf of the government, István Nagy, State Secretary asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to answer my fellow Member, Gábor Bellozó, in a few words. You've raised questions I don't want to leave in the air. Special thanks for the recognition that Minister has made a correct picture of the state of the countryside. I think that exposé was a very honest, very valuable analysis. It is precisely so that the debate can go on an honest, profound professional level, and we are really trying to find out from its point of view how to do something for the development of the Hungarian countryside, for the viability of the Hungarian countryside. He says that he especially thanked him for mentioning the role of public work as a positive example when he spoke about disadvantaged areas. Yeah. And I would very much like to point out that you can't solve everything in one fell swoop. Only processes can be conducted. First, I have to teach, I have to be honest, to force people to make a living only if someone works and does creative work. Indeed, in many regions, there was a situation where the third and fourth generation no longer saw their predecessor go to work. So, first, the culture of going to work had to be developed to work. However, let me also say that the 2018 budget, which clearly shows that we would like to take at least 50,000 people out of public work and move them to the economy to push them out into the competitive sphere. After all, there is a shortage of labour in Hungary, the work of working hands is essential. It's very important, and I think you can see in the government's intentions where you're going. And it is necessary to say a very great truth that there are successful settlements, regions, different from the other settlements in the other region, where there is a good mayor, or there is a good teacher who builds a community, who brings them together, who sets a good example. There are also settlements in the most advanced Győr-Moson-Sopron county districts where they give up. And there is a settlement next to it, so there is the same economic potential, practically everything next door, they just want and do and struggle with their own difficulties in how they can break out. [[17.10]] Wonderful examples can be given, if you look at the site of the project, even in Hajdúnánás, it started from public work. They are now growing into market players in that region and virtually nationwide. This should be carried on, this needs to be driven to improve the situation. There was talk of area payments. I have to say, they hurt us a lot for it. But remember, that degression was introduced precisely by us. We lost a lot of money for it back in the day, right from the socialists, we maximized it in 1,200 acres. [[Zoltán Grumpy: Because you didn't watch anything, Pista, just the size!]] But we needed a way to break down the entire estate. They always bring up the estate. I have to say, we win every month, every year, because we're now from 50-50 to 60-40 for family farming. After all, as long-term leases expire, the land itself is increasingly divided and divided into size. Austria is brought up, it has appeared several times today as an example. But then let's figure out what is happening in Austria and what is the difference between Austria and Hungary! The fact is, my fellow Members, that Hungary had to switch from forced to socialist agriculture. All the value of private property, peasant farming, had to be given up. The peasantry has become an employee, and the peasant lifestyle has ceased. We dare not say it, but there is a very important sentence for today: is the village operating as a traditional one today? Does the village play its role? Try to fatten up 50 masts next door, any of my fellow Members. What will they say in the village? Is that what we want? Is that the solution? Whether it's an integration or a private enterprise, any way to get the cattle back in the settlement? Let's give it a try. It's so hard. That's a mast yelling at everyone. In fact, I am a disgrace to the world when I say that rabbits should be produced and that rabbit meat should be taken into account in poor settlements or at least in the eradication of poverty. If there's cheap meat, I'd say it's the rabbit. [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: Audi!]] And I'm on a newspaper cover as a moron who wants to eat rabbits and feed rabbits to society. So we're having some mind-blowing difficulties. I would like to ask everyone that when we talk about the role of the village, we also take into account today's realities. What is the difference between Austria and Hungary? The difference is, please, is that the economy is passed on from father to son. Agriculture and farming have a way of life. This life form has disappeared from the Hungarian countryside, not all of it, but most of it. That's what we're looking for. We want this to happen again. But I don't have it, this life form is missing. And they don't want to take on this life form that the cattle have to be fed on Christmas or Easter. It's a lot easier to leave for an employee, and then I'm on vacation, eight hours of work, thank you very much, and I'll come home. It's not working today, it's one of the biggest problems in the country. The village doesn't work as a village, but as an ugly word, it's the city man's bedwalk. He also sees it as a small cottage for mowing grass and planting a pine tree in the yard instead of being a fruit tree or a vegetable or fruit. But it's not! He prefers a pool, and he's very angry when the flies come from next door. It was an honest introduction, so let's keep it straight. So the problems we are talking about are much deeper, and we are also talking about the life - style issue. We must give these help so that the rural way of life that can lift up the countryside, which pushes the Hungarian economy forward, can be found. Because, by the way, our numbers are changing: agricultural production has increased by 55.6 percent, and our export emissions have increased by 37.5 percent. So we're on the path we can take. The results of the Rural Development Secretary's applications are coming to light. There are huge modernisations in the food industry, processing plants, cold stores that all help us not to be raw materials producers, but to produce products. It helps with sabolcs apples, any other grocery store, not take them into the market at the same time in dumping, but we can pull off the season, and we can achieve a 20% increase in the price. These subsidies, which show up, are all for the development of the countryside and help those who take on the way of life today, take on farming today, to increase its profitability, that is to say, to find a good example next door, to find a good example for young people who watch what they can do in life to make this career attractive. If we can make him attractive as a life form, then I think we'll be on our feet and we can make progress. But I have to tell you that it's not a correct diagnosis to say that it's nothing and it's all wrong. There are difficulties. I also have to say that we will only be able to resolve this together, otherwise we will not have a chance to solve it, because the problem that we have at the moment is much deeper than we can say that we could resolve this whole issue by handing out such a form of support. That's what I need your help with. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-22-234	Thank you very much. We will return to the speakers that have been announced. Mr. Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of Parliament, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-235	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, let me say that I am pleased with this debate today, and I am also pleased with its tone, the truly, it seems, very constructive tone that has now emerged in Parliament. If it were always so, I would come here with much greater joy if we could talk about such good and important things in such a tone! I would just like to put a very short reflection on the words of the Secretary of State, because you have also told a lot of the truth. But since Austria was an example, I would just add that in Austria's small villages you can find the livestock farms in the middle of the village with no smell, because they can solve it technologically. Obviously, if you could adapt it here, that would be a less important thing. But another important thing is that there is also a second income for peasant society, let us think of the many ski slopes that they can earn extra income either from their rent or from their work there. But it was just a small addition. Such examples will need to be taken over the coming period. [[Dr. István Nagy: You're absolutely right!]] I myself come from 700 enthusiastic settlements in the middle of Heves County, so I can add my own experience to what I have to say now, when I want to talk about the opportunities I see and see Jobbik, especially for job creation in the countryside. Many things have been said, mostly about agriculture, and I would like to say a few words about this too, of course, but I would also like to include one or two areas of thought that have not yet been discussed. Creating jobs in rural areas can obviously affect many professions, many areas and economic activities, not just tourism and agriculture, which they say in the first place. Allow me to add as an idea - and this is not only Jobbik's idea, but also a programme point - that it would be very important in Hungary if an older home building program were to be launched again if the capacity expansion were to increase in Hungary. Perhaps everyone knows, at least I hope, that there are at least 25,000 people waiting to be placed in an elderly home right now. The need for this would be greater than that, by the way. Obviously, if a government were to take the trouble and this growing need, which is now emerging in the past, would try to deal with it - and otherwise be managed at some level - then such an elderly home-building programme could be created in rural areas, in a healthy environment, mainly or in larger quantities. Taking care of 25,000 people now would mean 10,000 jobs in rural settlements. 10,000 jobs, that's 10,000 families; it's not a small number of jobs, if you think about this rural environment. It may be a little small, but it is not an irrelevant number, and it would all be a conservation force in rural settlements, small villages, and indeed in a good environment, under pleasant circumstances, the elderly who, for some reason, have chosen this form of supply could spend their time. But I'd like to mention another unspoken idea. Austria may be seen as an example, but also many other Western European countries. Decentralisation has been discussed many times, and the fact that government decentralisation has not really succeeded is what we see well, but many other decentralisations are also possible, for example in the area of education. We can see that high schools are run in many smaller settlements in Western Europe. In-house high schools are set up because they are good schools, parents are happy to give their children such an environment, and they can live their lives in a protected, relatively more closed community, and parents can be more relaxed about where the children are placed during the week. [[17.20]] Hungary would also have this opportunity, of course it is necessary to create high-quality schools in rural environments, even in small villages, where high schools, secondary schools and vocational schools could be set up. This is, of course, a completely standard in Western Europe, and I do not have to say what additional job opportunities would be for teachers and other care staff in the region at a minimum level of education, but a shift or such supplement. I'm just saying quietly that Jobbik has had its own program for boarding-houses a long time ago. Otherwise, several versions of this can be envisaged in Hungary, and once again it would be a serious opportunity, or at least a good addition to job creation in rural areas. The diagnosis has already been made very nicely. Everyone really sees it well, you know, and I think everyone feels that rural villages are dying amazingly fast, and practically there is already a farming process taking place in many settlements. Minister, he said that there are a thousand settlements - a huge number - which are at some level threatened with extinction in the coming decades. In my opinion, this must not be allowed, it is quite clear. I think that no one in this House would like this to happen in Hungary - there are no liberals here. If we can agree with that, then we really need to look at the problems that arise here. The problem in Hungary is not only that peripheral districts have been established on the border, but also that there are peripheral areas in central areas, in the internal part of the country, as well as in the literature and all other studies. I would just like to highlight one huge one of the many, which is not far from Budapest: South Heves, North Szolnok, is in no better position than the region of North-East Hungary on the uppermost border. A county area is literally officially considered a peripheral area. My constituency is halfway around here. And it must be said that in the last thirty years, in the last years of socialism, there has been no job creation in the region of South Heves. Thirty years! Technically, that's the balance. Well, it's a disaster to think about a situation like this. Obviously, the most important goal is to have jobs locally, preferably in that settlement or in nearby settlements, but not very far away. A lot of people from the South-Heves region are moving to the Jászság region, because there are more jobs there. It is true that the actions are very low, but they travel hours just to make a living, without having any free time. Obviously, it is not possible to give children the example that I have a job for 80 or 100 thousand forints a hundred kilometers away, but we never see each other, and even if the wife is working, even the family doesn't see her very much. Thus, a child will not stay in these areas if he sees that he must live such a life, for everyone really knows that this is not a proper life. Returning to what practical opportunities there are for maintaining the countryside and keeping rural people in place, I would, of course, also like to move on to tourism. And speaking of Austria, I like to give an example, too, because good things can be taken over or looked away, even if they cannot be done in a matter of moments. But bear in mind that Austria clearly understands that its economic and geographical potential is that tourism, winter, but even summer tourism, is a very demanding sector. Today, one third of Austria lives on tourism. That's an amazing song. We probably won't be able to reach this huge number. But if they've set foot on almost one area, then we need to assess what our gift is. And we have the gift, the gift that is the only option in the world that is nothing but medicinal tourism, our waters, which are exemplary, which is nowhere else in Europe, but not in Europe, in the whole world. Since there are ministers of state here and the rest, I would like to suggest to you that it is not a problem that there is no thermal water anywhere. We have a bath already relatively enough, although I have to add that there could be a lot more if Hungary had a genuine country marketing to build on one important thing. Because that's the point! We do not need to scatter the money that we use to attract tourists, but we need to give a very, very determined main direction, and that cannot be different for us. Of course, Hungarian food, Hungaricums are all very good things, but this is exactly what you will be able to build on. We won't be able to bring tourists here with the bean goulash, but we will be able to do so with medicinal tourism, its development and its propacy in the world. And believe us that we are very behind in this, and I am very angry at so-called professionals in this regard. So more money should be given to this, because there is much, much, much more opportunity, and this is a major break-out in terms of maintaining the countryside and increasing tourism. I, too, will briefly turn to agriculture. It is quite clear to us that an advanced and even very advanced small-scale plant and livestock production is needed in Hungary. This means that this must be done with the most advanced technology. This would also require a huge transfer of knowledge, but at present even a large mass of the Hungarian economy is not ready to do so. But what Mr. Secretary of State said, and I know that rabbits are a great admirer, and I agree with it, because there are thousands of jobs that could be created in that sector: we have almost all the crop and all the livestock characteristics, but we cannot live with it. In my opinion, this is the most important issue and it gives the most jobs. Let us look at the Netherlands, Denmark and the rest, where this has a huge tradition, where there are great opportunities. And we can see that in Austria - we are going there again - it is also worth dealing with ten or twenty cows, because the farmer makes a living. Of course, it adds to other things because you sell your own cheese in your own territory. But that's what we don't have at all. I would certainly direct the policy, the thinking in agriculture, to this end, which must be implemented. But how can it be realized? By giving serious knowledge to people who are not yet many, but there are a few tens of thousands of young people, families who are engaged in agriculture in Hungary, or someone who would like to work on agriculture, who would be able to realise these opportunities. They need to be forced into a cooperative form, not by chance, as in communism, but by encouraging them to set up cooperatives voluntarily. They're fit for it. There are not many, but there are so many that they can set an example for others. Here's how we need another cooperative system. If the social cooperative system works on a moaning level, but it's important not to confuse the two. One must be fully market-based, and the other, as has been said, socially based, although development must also be given to those workers who are then removed from it, or the cooperative is becoming increasingly market-based. It is very important that this will not happen without a genuine cooperative system. Now they're heading for the integrator system. It's usually running a company, running a person, and if that person thinks otherwise, that system could collapse. We need a cooperative where members of the same economic strength will preferably appear, as they will be able to operate democratically and well - because otherwise this is the essence of the cooperative system - such systems. And it should be added that agricultural production itself does not give the great profit, but sales and the rest, which are the key and the basis for the operation of these cooperatives. I'd just like to say a few things very briefly, which really only concerns my own district, but it's typical. Right in front of Parliament, there was a chateau about Grassalkovich's 60th Castle, that he wanted to give it to the government free of charge, and even the socialists then, but they withdrew from it. [[17 .30]] We spent 3 billion forints on this castle in Hatvan, which alone would not be a problem, but you can see that it is 250-300 million forints. And it shows exactly how we spend money in Hungary. We don't think about the maintenance costs after that. And I'm moving on. Not far from him will be another castle renovation for 2 billion forints, if all is true. In a settlement that has one third of the population of Gypsies, one third of the population is retired, and where 200 people could build an elderly home out of those 2 billion forints, 80 people would have jobs. The castle won't give you so much jobs, no matter what intarsia furniture, please. Or, since there is a gardening culture in this area, a greenhouse should have been created. So here I just wanted to give you an example of what needs to be removed in Hungary. Yes, they are renovating the castle from a few million forints to prevent it from collapsing for the time being, but it is necessary to create jobs in exactly such settlements. And I've only given two examples, which, if I could have done, I would have obviously managed these funds like this. We will ask the government to try to take economic policy in this direction. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-22-236	Thank you very much. The speech also proves that such a debate is useful. In my life, I didn't think Mr. Vice President was a big fan of rabbits. So, in the further speeches, we look forward to the details. To whom you worship, Congressman Hadházy, we can find out now. The Fidesz representative is next. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, On the subject of rural development, it has been said today that the municipalities do not speak to each other, and there have been hostile relations. Perhaps my fellow Member Zoltán Gőgös spoke about this. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's what happens.]] If that were the case, it would be a very big problem. I think, at least in my constituency, that's far from the case. In fact, I can provide a good example of the micro-regional cooperation that is organised, motorised by the local government of Tahiti as a micro-centre, and of which seven municipalities are members: Visegrad. Dunabogdány, Tahitótfalu, Kisorosi, Pócsmegyer, Szigetmonostor and Girl Village. In fact, they came together because in the central region the abundance of resources is unknown. We have to fight very hard for each state or EU resource, thanks to the fact that some political forces once invented the central region to include Pest County, the capital. As a result, the capital's funds to the central region were almost one-on-one, and the funds were taken away by such very important investments, such as metro 4 and similar issues. For us, Pest county settlements, Pest county entrepreneurs, the Pest county forces have actually only the crumbs. If we reduce everything in the period 2007-2013, with a deadline for use and settlement until 31 December 2015, if we combine these resources, we can talk about about HUF 16 billion, the vast majority of which was taken away by waste water investments. By the way, these were indeed necessary investments. But in fact, I couldn't afford any serious improvements from this source. Therefore, the municipalities, the municipalities, have recognised that there are great opportunities for cooperation, and as a result, although small results have been achieved in this national context, important steps have been taken in my constituency. After all, the cooperation of the seven settlements was based on the fact that the settlements on Szentendre Island are located in a protected natural area. I am talking about four settlements located in the area of the water base in the capital city. This is linked to other very sensitive, exciting areas, such as the Visegrád nature conservation and landscape protection areas, which significantly reduce development opportunities. These settlements, thanks to their cooperation, are trying to turn the disadvantage into an advantage, and they are trying to implement resources, improvements that can be nicely integrated into this system. The protection of existing values is extremely important to us, and we are therefore very pleased that although it is not from European Union resources, but from domestic sources, in the near future, there will be a programme that is very important for local tourism. This is the castle program, thanks to which the Visegrád citadel, the lower castle and the royal palace can begin to be renewed. This is very important because it is one of our most important attractions. If you have been to and around Visegrad, you can see that there is, in fact, a great deal to be done in this area. A very nice, professionally clear program was created, which involved a large number of local professionals. This is also important, because if the local forces can participate in the preparation, they can take this program into their own, and they can do so much better, and they can appreciate the elements implemented much better. This is also important for us because, as is the case, a limes programme can be developed in the region, where not only Visegrád, but also Dunabogdány, Leányfalu, Szentendre and other settlements can participate. All these elements will be very well completed by the EuroVelo 6 bicycle route, the section of which will be built from Visegrád to Budapest in the next period. It is extremely important that we have managed to accept and establish a trail that will open up further opportunities for the region, which will lead us through the island of Szentendre, and as a result, we have to go to the island once, and once we have to get off the island, we need to build two bridges. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the region is part of the agglomeration. As a result, we can enjoy a lot of advantages, as we are close to the capital and close to the various services of the capital. However, this is also the result of our disadvantage that we have to go to Budapest for these services, especially in the workplace. But health care is equally important to us, and education is equally important to us, which is a capital city. This, as a matter of fact, also results in a migration to the capital and then back in the morning and afternoon hours. It appears to be narrow, along route 11, as well as the northern bridge of M0, as well as the associated road network. The capacity of rail transport is also tight, despite the fact that there has been a very nice development in connection with Esztergom.Budapest, in which Pilisvörösvár and Üröm are involved thanks to suburban transport. But the same development should also be made with regard to Szentendre HÉV. It would be good not to be forced to go to Budapest for these important things, for the workplace, for health care, for education, using entertainment opportunities, but to create them locally. Not only in my constituency, but also in the agglomeration of Budapest in settlements with similar problems, it would be very good to achieve such a comprehensive development, which would create jobs and open up opportunities for health and educational care. [[17.40]] We are working on this, and we are confident that, if we look at the economic part and look at it, it would be more beneficial to create such a situation at the overall national economic level than to achieve the desired state, which is neither really desirable nor beneficial to the capital, by achieving new road network development or transport network development. So, ladies and gentlemen, our problem is of a very different nature than the problems of other settlements in the country. Obviously, our problem hurts us, and the problems in other areas hurt where they are. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-238	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, please.
u2017-05-22-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Today, the most important factor in a man's life prospects is where he is born, in which part of the country. Distances from capital cities have a decisive impact on life chances. It is now commonplace that rural Hungary is characterised by deserting, deserting villages, depopulated public services, and this is largely due to the governance of the past few years. It is no wonder that only the population of Central Hungary is growing today among the seven regions of Hungary, with the exception of the Western Transdanubia, the population is constantly decreasing. In addition to natural weight loss, this is due to the accelerated domestic and international migration in recent years. The detachment regions began to empty, many headed for the capital or abroad. Between 2016 and the beginning of 2017, the country's population decreased by 31,200, representing the fourth largest loss of population in the last 20 years. From a geographical point of view, 27,000 of this 31,000 weight loss was measured in East Hungary. Of which 14,000 are due to natural weight loss, 13,000 are due to emigration. Domestic migration is obviously directed towards regions with higher earnings, more job opportunities, more infrastructure. The development differences in the regions are enormous: the richest central region including the capital can compete only in Western and Central Transdanubia, and the other four regions regularly compete among the 20 poorest EU regions. The migration of young people has increased the average age, the population is getting older, more and more pensioners are getting older for a working age. In the oldest southern lowland Békés county there are 31 elderly people of 100 working age. In the counties of Heves and Nógrád, there is a 30 percent dependency rate in old age. In 2016, this averaged 27 percent, i.e. 3-4 older people in these counties had more than 100 working-age residents than the average. This process is reinforced not only by domestic migration but also by migration abroad. According to KSH's latest survey, 680 thousand of the 18-40s, one in three people have thought about emigration. 370 thousand of them are serious about moving abroad. A city the size of Szeged will be able to travel abroad in a reasonable time. The most worrying situation among 18-24-year-olds, of whom nearly half of them said they'd leave. So far, as we know, more than half a million Hungarians have gone abroad. Depopulated rural areas are becoming more and more depopulated: job opportunities, wages and incomes are scarce. According to the KSH household data, the country is breaking up more and more, the incomes of the more developed regions are growing at a much higher rate than in the eastern parts of the country. According to the 2015 income figures in Budapest, the net income per capita was HUF 1 million 539 thousand, which exceeded the national average by a third. On the other hand, the income of the people living in the villages was 16.5 percent lower than the national average. The county average earnings figures show a more accurate picture of the pay gap. The fact that the national average is reached only in Budapest and in Győr-Moson-Sopron county is significant in itself. More than a third of the employees in the competition sector work in Budapest, so the payments in the capital significantly push the average wage up. As a result, if you look at the average wage in the country, you get a much lower figure than national. Without Budapest, Hungary's 19 counties had a net income of HUF 157 thousand. The difference between wages in the capital and rural areas has increased in recent years and is now the highest since 2008. In Budapest, the average salary was HUF 226 thousand net in 2016, compared to the lowest in Szabolcs with more than HUF 100,000 less than HUF 118 thousand. Since 2010, Szabolcs' wages have increased by 12 percent, while Budapest's earnings have increased by 39 percent, i.e. three times. The break in szabolcs wages has continued, and the public work programmes of the last few years have preserved this condition. Today, 36 percent of public workers work here and in Borsod. Beyond depopulation, ageing and poverty, it is a huge problem that public services are also being dismantled in the countryside. Health care is in ruins. 10-12 percent of Hungarian doctors work abroad. In recent years, there has been a drastic increase in the number of GP practices that have been unfilled for more than six months. There are 281 permanently unfilled GP practices. In northern Hungary, in the area of Encs, almost all villages are affected in one of the most disadvantaged small regions of the country. The worst situation in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county is already the case, and substitute doctors have to visit 77 other settlements per week outside their own area. In small regions where GPs have been vacant for years, the probability of premature death is double. The time bomb is also a time bomb due to the age of general doctors. The GP is growing old from more and more districts without anyone applying for his place. Neighbors will have to take care of the area, and then if they leave, they'll have to take care of two empty districts from the third or fourth precincts. One third of Hungarian general practitioners are over the retirement age, and another third are close to it. In 20 years, half the districts will be out of the GP. In addition to the lack of a doctor, medical access is made more difficult by poor transport infrastructure. Due to lost wing lines, bad roads, incomplete traffic connections, bus schedules, you can't get from a lot of settlements even 10 kilometers if you don't have a car. I thought it was important to tell these figures so that at least the pro-government representatives in Parliament would face reality if they didn't meet it anywhere else. The country's division under Fidesz governance continued to grow: the distance in wages, incomes, job opportunities, access to public services increased, and instead of changing that, the government made the situation worse. The single-key tax, the freezing of civil servants' wages, the lowering of public wages below the minimum wage, and the fact that people were forced to choose between the public labor paid by hunger and the assembly work with minimum wage have led to the fact that crowds today choose to work abroad. According to the LMP, we need a complete change of course. We need a complete economic policy paradigm shift: instead of creating jobs based on multi-annual support, domestic small and medium-sized enterprises need to be supported and competitive. Multi-key tax and tax-free minimum wage are required to close income scissors. The public sector's wages must be settled, the wage bill must be tied to a minimum wage. We have to give back the resources that have been withdrawn from education and health care. We need a new vocational training system and training for public workers. A family and housing policy aimed at raising poor families must be pursued and the family allowance increased. [[17.50]] Closing up rural areas requires jobs for the low-skilled, green economy development, energy efficiency investments, social housing, social land programmes. Perhaps all of this together can change the situation in the countryside and help to stop the continuous slip and tear. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2017-05-22-240	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has applied for a statement. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-241	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You have spoken a lot about the situation in rural health care here, honourable Member. In fact, there was a time when 16,000 beds were cancelled when 6,000 medical workers were laid off and hundreds of billions of forints reduced the health management framework, while trying to introduce a visitation fee and hospital daily allowance to avoid the general practitioner and hospital, but this was the pre-2010 period. What's happened since then? We spent 322 billion forints on the development of rural hospitals and 104 billion forints on the development of instruments in rural hospitals. If you go around the countryside, you can hardly see a hospital that would not have been renewed from the outside, precisely in the KEOP programmes, energy saving and energy efficiency programmes, there has been an external exchange, precisely to reduce territorial inequalities and to provide better health care for rural people. On the contrary, people complain, as you said, that the infrastructure conditions of health care in the countryside are better, the building of hospitals, the instrumentality of hospitals in Budapest, and that is why Fidesz-KDNP accepted that we spend 40 billion forints on budget money this year, and tens of billions forints on hospital development in Budapest next year, in order to bring Budapest back from the development of a rural hospital in the last 5-6-7 years. When another member of the LMP comes in - I see that you do not listen to each other - he says that Budapest is lagging behind in the development of health care. I suggest that you pay attention to each other's speeches. You said that public employment pay is less than the minimum wage. Madam President, it is no coincidence that this system has developed, as public employment wages are much more than aid to make it worth entering public employment from the world of aid, but less than the minimum wage, so that anyone who is in public employment should continue to be motivated to hold a job in the market and should have a noticeable rise in living standards if he can then work under market conditions.13 billion forints in the last few years to improve basic care, i.e. the infrastructure of general doctors and dentists, so to renovate clinics, health homes and similar programmes. 30 percent of this total has been spent in 33 most disadvantaged small regions, precisely so that we can reduce health area differences in basic care. We have developed 40 new outpatient clinics, 23 new outpatient clinics in the small region have been established, 90 hospitals converting active care have been developed out of a total of HUF 50 billion. These exactly helped people living in rural areas to access better health care and public services. In emergency care, we have made a HUF 13.3 billion development, and in the convergence regions we have been able to make tangible improvements for 16 institutions, so this has also occurred in the less-favoured regions. There are 496 new vehicles at the emergency services, and now there are ambulances or ambulances in every county in Hungary that can help patients. It was also in the interest of the inhabitants of the small settlements, those far away from the hospitals, that 30 completely new rescue stations were set up, so that the ambulance would not only go out quickly in the big cities, but also to the small settlements, the settlements that were more difficult to reach in the countryside, and that is why we built 30 completely new rescue stations, where there was no rescue capacity before, and we also renewed the 97 that were not in a satisfactory state, and this program must, of course, be continued, the renovations, as there are still rescue stations that need to be renovated. And we will also use 84 billion forints to improve the quality of care in the 14-20 development cycle, so we hope that this will also help the people in the countryside, the sick people there. For the general medical care system as a whole, you know that every year, almost every year, we have increased the framework for care by HUF 10 billion in recent years. This also makes the income of the general practitioner more predictable in a small settlement, increases income, careers, opportunities and prospects for someone, so that if they were born in a small settlement, where there is a health home, there is a general medical practice, there is a general medical practice. This meant a 53 percent increase in GP practices in total. In the TOPs, forints 22,3 billion are available for the renovation of the various GPs, and we trust that this will enable the renovation of old, slightly populated, abandoned GPs, health clinics and clinics in many areas. Both the practice purchase program and the establishment proposal are trying to stop exactly the ageing problem you said you said was that the general practitioners are getting older, and in rural small practices there are often no people to sign up and fill it, which is why we started it. In the 16th budget, this meant 750 million forints in total for the purchase of a practice; as a non-refundable grant, we give the practice fee if someone wants to fill a practice that has not been filled for a year, primarily in the countryside, and we give them up to 6-10 million forints of settlement support. This year's tender will be subject to even more favourable conditions, but in recent years we have done it precisely so that there will be a general practitioner in the small town. He spends 10 million forints on what he wants, if he needs it, on his housing, if he needs it, on his car, location, setting up, and besides, the practice costs zero forints, as he receives non-refundable funding for it. The majority of the 61 health development offices have also been set up in districts that are most likely to be improved from the point of view of health development, in order to prevent the development of future diseases. We also had modeling programmes that developed for the community of practice, which we also tried to do in disadvantaged regions and districts. I think these just show that the health improvements in recent years have been designed to compensate for the problems of previous access and differences in care, so that wherever a person is born in Hungary, the more we can say that there are equal conditions, there are equal opportunities if he is sick and wants to heal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-242	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It's a two-minute lap. First, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP, in two minutes.
u2017-05-22-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, although it is a little strange that I am responding to what was said an hour ago. First, Minister János Lázár mentioned - I was just shaking my head at the time - then Erik Bánki as lead speaker, and then our fellow Member Péter Csizi said what a step it was to achieve local government consolidation in the region and how much it helped small settlements. All three of them emphasized that. Since then, I have looked at 277 cases of consolidation, 610 billion forints, and 1710 forints for 5 000 inhabitants. This was a small part, 11 percent of the total budget. The inhabitants of this area did not receive any form of benefit, it was indebted settlements, trying to hide the sins of irresponsible settlements, including Hódmezővásárhely, which did not help the rural people to their lives. So the settlements under five thousand had 77 billion forints, 11 percent of the total budget, and the rest went to the majority of the cities with county rights - just to make that clear. In the second part, I would like to thank Mr Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, for his speech, and then I would like to ask him to share it and put an advertisement on it, so that as many people can hear the level of uninformed information about what is going on in the country. You have to look at what's in a Kazincbarcika hospital or a field-tour hospital, see what it's like to have people standing around to push a deceased to get their bed. So you have to look at how security of supply is, what settlements in Borsod are like when there is virtually no gynaecological care throughout the months when there is a single GP for 30 settlements. It is obvious that numbers can be said, that we have grouped so many billions, that the vast majority of these results do not appear or appear in rural areas. It is worth looking around the country before such speeches are written by your colleagues. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2017-05-22-244	Thank you very much. Congressman Tamás Bellozó, MSZP!
u2017-05-22-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I, too, would like to respond first to Mr Rétvári, because I think that even if someone listened carefully to his billions, it is still very clear what we are talking about. Minister of State said that 13 billion HUF was spent on the development of emergency care and that some 84 billion HUF will be spent on the development of health care in the 14-20 or seven-year development cycle. Yes, Mr. Secretary, and 220 billion for Viktor Orbán to move to the Castle. It's all in these two numbers, which is why this country is under tension, and that's why we're saying this can't go on. Minister Lazarus said here that the forestry are there, yet the people are in a terrible situation, and he doesn't understand why we can't do anything about it. I'm sure we won't know what to do until a voter comes to my office and tells me when I'm eighty years old that this winter he's cut the land out of his tiny little territory. [[Interviews in the ranks of Fidesz: The tree!]] Because his grandson was almost frozen - this is the village of Fight, and I'm happy to tell you the name - which, by the way, led to a police procedure against him, which gave this man a fine of 300,000 forints, who may not have left the village of Harc in his life, and did not know what the point of the procedure was. Well, if we're chasing these criminals, then we understand why the country's keeping us here. Secondly, it is a pity to joke about police statistics, because they started by raising the threshold of HUF 50,000, and all the crimes that have been done so far, and annoying people in small towns daily, it is not, and it simply does not appear in the statistics, and the police are not involved in these matters. They know that, but the latency has increased, not the crime has been reduced. [[18.00]] And if it is a crime, their biggest crime is that the social cooperative system, which could indeed be an outburst in the Hungarian countryside, was humiliated by Mengyi Rolandok, Voldemortok, Simonka and even their other Fidesz fellow Members still in the room by committing or assisting in criminal activities. You know, the problem is that the social cooperative appears today in criminal information, and not there, how the Hungarian countryside could break out of this problem. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-22-246	Congressman Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik!
u2017-05-22-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to Secretary of State István Nagy. I have agreed with almost everything you have said, and I believe that one of the major problems and starting points of this topic is that we need to redefine and redefine the way in which we live in rural areas, and I just want to ask you that if the government is so aware of the problems, then what has it done in order to achieve this. Let's look at the law. Cooperative law: I think that would be the basis for this peasant lifestyle XXI. It can be recreated in its 100th capacity. Every six months, they call it in, they promise it's not in front of us. Legislation on family farms: We have been waiting for it since 2010 and have not been brought in since then. Now we know why they're not bringing him in, so we can't talk honestly about what it means to you and what it means to us, let's say, the small and medium-sized family farmer. Plant regulation law: this is also promised since 2010, which would give us the opportunity to rethink, even within EU frameworks and standards, the size of the plants we want to think about in the Hungarian countryside and what we want to support. But there's also been talk of state land. Do you think, Mr. Secretary, the re-creation of the peasant lifestyle will be given by selling the state land in 600-700 million forints? Is this the new Hungarian peasantry? Instead of providing them with a decent lease, we would have given them state property, so that they could develop a viable estate size, so that we could launch a demographic or social land programme in the Hungarian countryside. Or would it mean helping this way of life by building and supporting the Stroman system in Hungary? A minimum wage tractor can buy land in Tolna for between HUF 200 and 300 million, and no one asks him how that is possible? But there has been much talk about support policy, and it does not point to the fact that this way of life would be helped by the state. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-22-248	Congressman Gábor Riz, Fidesz.
u2017-05-22-249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to respond to the communication of two of my fellow Members. One of the Schmuck Elizabeths, whom I would also like to welcome on the occasion of considering one of our small villages half home in that uninhabitable county in that uninhabitable area. This is a pleasure for me, because it is indeed a beautiful area, a settlement. The other is my colleague Varga, who mentioned Borsod County from the aspect of the end-of-the-world atmosphere, where nothing is happening anymore and where to come from. I would like to say that, with the partial expiry of the metallurgical and mining of the basic material, the structure has been partially transformed and, in part, new plants have been installed in the region that are only in the Ozd and region of which I am an elected representative, calling for more than 1500-1800 people on the labour market at the moment. In this county, which, once again, has been said with quite a lot of negative bells today, one of the highest aid intensities will be allocated in the near future mainly to municipalities, but also to related enterprises. 60 percent, we know that Hungary's small and medium-sized enterprises need to be strengthened with these resources, so I would be proud to say that local tourism will also be significantly strengthened, as well as local infrastructure that will serve the everyday lives of those living there. I would like to draw your attention to a strange phenomenon. We know that according to the rules of procedure, county authorities and county assemblies decide on the local assessment of regional operational programme development resources, and one has reason to expect that mayors who decide to do so will at least support their own applications. Well, Ozd's better representative did not support his own applications, so he lost almost 1.5 billion forints, so that if the county government of Fidesz-KDNP does not vote, then today this source will not be sent to Ozd; this is only interesting. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-250	Thank you very much. Excuse and understanding Mr Pócs and Mr Tasó Fideszes, according to the rules of the house, I can speak in the second and third round, since they have applied for two minutes; unlike Mr Rétvári, he can speak on behalf of the government now. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-251	Thank you very much for the floor. I am sorry that Congressman Bellozó is not here; perhaps he is watching the meeting, and then he can hear my answer, my reaction to what he has said. If we have to put two numbers together as he said, how much we spend, how much more we spend on health care, and how much less the socialist government spent, they managed to subtract 600 billion forints from health care during the last period of their government, a large part of it from the Health Insurance Fund, the rest from the health and other chapters of the budget, while the budget of Fidesz-KDNP voted for this year contains 171 billion forints for health. So I would stress that under the MSZP government 600 billion minus, only this year Fidesz-KDNP 171 billion HUF plus, because some governments have more access to education, more access to health care and more access to sport. There is, of course, an example of sports development here, but in other governments, there is no such thing as money for what OLAF described in its report on metro 4. I think it is very disdainful for people who work here to talk about rural development, who talk about general practitioners who, with their application for establishment or other applications in the countryside, even in smaller settlements, look down on those who have succeeded in renovating one half of a hospital. The failure of the second half will now succeed in the current EFOPs, but I think it is a great success that we have achieved one half in the past. There are 2200 state-owned schools operating at 6050 jobs, 407 of which we managed to complete the full renovation in education, in 1996 we managed to complete some renovations, in 22 universities. And we hope that soon there will be a school in every district, and we will give 700,000 students the opportunity to learn to swim in a swimming pool, to enjoy water sports and to live a healthier life. The first phase takes place in 24 settlements from nearly HUF 9 billion in the country. We hope that this will also help all young people who want to play sports, want to learn, want to go to school, under decent conditions, on the spot, not in the big city. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-252	Dear Parliament, In order to raise the legitimate awareness of several Members, I would like to say the following to you and the Protocol: when Mr Rétvári State Secretary, who is a member of the Christian Democratic Group, speaks as State Secretary, he is seen on the board as being deducted from KDNP's time, but KDNP does not have time because he has given it to Fidesz. This is purely a technical maneuver, not some political error, but as this speech ends, then the technicians will write and credit it from Fidesz time. This has happened in the previous six minutes for 25 seconds and in the current speech for 2 minutes 16 seconds, so this will be deducted from Fidesz's time. Thank you very much for your attention and for letting me tell you this. We now return to the list of speakers that have been announced. First up in this line is Congressman Robert Simon, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-253	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps in a few sentences it is worth looking back at the period since 2010, first perhaps at national level, then at the county and at the county town of which I am a representative. If we look at how we stood on the labour market in 2010 and where we are now in 2017, then we have to say that there are some 700 thousand more people working, so this is definitely a huge step forward. At the same time, unemployment has fallen by more than half, as while this figure was about 494,000 in 2010, it has fallen to 206 thousand people today. It is worth seeing the county of Győr-Moson-Sopron, because it has been said here several times that Győr-Moson-Sopron County is probably the strongest in the country next to the capital and Pest County. While in 2010 the unemployment rate in Győr-Moson-Sopron County was 14 per cent, it decreased to 4.5 per cent by early 2016 and is today around 2 per cent. [[18.10]] There are months when it falls below 2 percent, which means that we can talk about practically full employment. By the way, in a town of Győr County, of which I am the Member of Parliament, the data are also similar, so we can talk about full employment here as well. It is also worth mentioning that the government paid some HUF 1,400 billion of government debt between 2011 and 2013, and I do not agree with the LMP claim that small settlements would not be included in this. In my constituency there are three small settlements, two settlements with a population of between 900 and 1000 people, one being called Kisbajcs, the other Nagybajcs, and another small settlement where there are 178 inhabitants, this settlement is called the Venes, and of course this debt consolidation has taken place in all three settlements. Obviously, it couldn't have happened to the same extent as in the county-righted city, since the county-righted town, Győr, has a population of about 130 thousand people, and the debt consolidation there, according to my memory, was somewhere around HUF 8-8,5 billion. Then it is worth mentioning that between 2010 and 2017 various developments worth more than HUF 10.5 billion were made from EU funds, and just last week we held a press conference on how the last EU cycle of 2007-2013 was established in Győr-Moson-Sopron County. In Győr-Moson-Sopron County, more than HUF 640 billion was received from EU funds in this cycle. By the way, the county has 183 municipalities, including two county towns, Győr and Sopron, and there were no settlements to which EU funds would not have come through one of the operational programmes or through one of the programmes, both to 183 municipalities. Many people say that Győr is a rich city, here in Parliament several of my fellow Members say that it was only difficult to be born in Győr, but nevertheless I would like to highlight external resources. Indeed, the city manages from more than HUF 50 billion, and about 50 percent of this HUF 50 billion is called its own revenue - this basically means business tax and construction tax, less, say, tourism tax, but these two provide significant revenue for the city - however, the so-called external resources are significant. Here I would like to mention the TOP, the regional and local development operational programme, because Győr and Sopron have a separate framework in this period: in the case of Győr it is HUF 21.6 billion, and in the case of Sopron it has HUF 10.8 billion, but in the case of Sopron the other 181 settlements have an independent framework, HUF 23.4 billion, and just in the beginning of May there was an announcement, according to which more than 62 settlements - now in the first round medium and smaller settlements - have already received funding worth HUF 9.4 billion. So these investments and developments will obviously start here in the municipalities of the county after the completion of the public procurement procedure. I would also like to say a few thoughts on the programme of modern cities. There are 23 cities with county rights in Hungary, and the last time, on 28 April, in Győr, the announcement was made for the programme "Modern Cities" and various developments. This programme, by the way, is for the next 10-15 years, and sets a clear direction for the development in which the city is now. The biggest and most important challenge will now be the summer event of the European Youth Olympic Festival, but we also need to think about the next period, which is represented primarily by tourism, the development of cultural life and the development of infrastructure. From this I would like to highlight some improvements without the need for completeness. It is extremely important, and it has been included in this program of modern cities, building an internal bypass ring with the construction of a new Mosoni-Duna bridge, otherwise between Industry Street and New Bácsai Road. This will be a short-term transport investment, which will significantly reduce the existing internal traffic in the downtown at the moment, which, by the way, causes serious problems during peak periods. Then another transport development is the design of the ring. From one direction, the M1 motorway avoids the city, and from the other direction, it is currently being built, and by the middle of next year the eastern bypass road will be completed, but the ring will also have to be closed, and the plans have started. This is what we want to achieve in the next five to ten years. Among the cultural developments, I would like to highlight the complex renovation of the National Theatre of Győr. The Győri National Theatre offers the opportunity for two companies: the theatre, of course, and the Győri Ballet, the internationally known Győri Ballet, but in addition to the theatre, the surrounding ballet II. The rehabilitation of János Pál tér and a new parking infrastructure will also be established. Then the next thing I'd like to mention is the construction of a new concert hall and a conference center. If you look at the fact that there are significant international companies in Győr, such as Audi Hungaria Motor Kft., which alone contributes about 2 percent to the performance of the Hungarian national economy, then it is necessary to set up a conference centre there, because at the moment, if this company or other smaller company organises larger conferences, it is usually obliged to organise it in Budapest or Vienna. Then the development of the beach bath and the water park is also on the agenda, and here the first thing you need to do is build a flood protection charge or a flood protection wall. And to be competitive with larger zoos and zoos - the Xantus János Zoo is smaller than, say, a significantly smaller zoo in Veszprém or Nyíregyháza or in the capital, which is the scene of cultural or community programmes - the renovation, more precisely the development and expansion of the zoo is also on the agenda. Then the center of the Western Hungarian region is the Széchenyi István University, where the goal is clearly to become a university of Széchenyi István University in Hungary within the next five to ten years. Here a so-called digital competence centre can be built in the next eight to ten years. Then I'll mention two more. The construction of a sports hotel in the area of the Olympic Sports Park, which is also a short-term investment, because there is a need for improvements in the area of accommodation in Győr. Finally, this is the creation of a new urban active recreation centre in the so-called Bishop's Forest. If you look at the 1st constituency in Győr-Moson-Sopron county and look back for the period 2007-2013, you will see the amount of support from EU funds in this constituency under the various operational programmes, then you can see that improvements were made for HUF 94.7 billion. This includes, for example, the reconstruction of the main square, or the construction of an interactive centre next to Széchenyi István University, this is either the Mobilis, or an expansion of the zoo, the use of the Füles Bastion, or the renovation of the streets of the downtown city in the framework of the so-called "Luke Downtown" project, which are also the streets leading to Széchenyi Square, the main square. Thus, a lot of improvements have been made from EU funds. If we look at the last cycle, i.e. the current 2014-20 cycle, then we can see that so far the amount of grants awarded exceeds HUF 35.2 billion, and the payments are at HUF 23.6 billion, but we are in the middle of the cycle. I hope that the EU funding of HUF 640 billion, mentioned at the beginning of my speech, for the 2007-13 cycle, will achieve 12,000 projects in the county, that we will get a higher figure if we can look back on this current EU cycle, say, in 2020 or 2021. Finally, a few more thoughts, since if it is Győr, it is worth saying a few words about GINOP. This is the operational programme for economic development and innovation, with a national envelope of HUF 2733 billion with national co-financing. [[18.20]] According to the latest figures of 2 May, the number of grants awarded in Győr-Moson-Sopron County is 291, the aid granted so far is HUF 30.9 billion; 142 payments were made, worth some HUF 21.1 billion. I was trying to point out that, although the county is strong and, of course, in Hungary, the cities with county rights can be considered stable and financially strong, the external resources, whether from the EU budget or from the Hungarian budget, are decisive, for the moment, even in recent years and, of course, in the next 10-15 years and in the future, in terms of the city and the county. If I can make a final thought of small settlements: indeed, even in the area of Győr as 130 thousand large cities, there are several settlements with a population of less than 3 thousand or even a thousand people, and they are absolutely right to say whether they will receive support there in the shadow of the big city. As I mentioned, it is and will be possible to do so at the TOP, within the operational programme for the development of settlements, and the aid already granted shows that these grants, whether in terms of tourism, economic development or local markets, or in terms of nursery or kindergarten development, have been well placed for these small settlements. Moreover, it was stated in the notice itself that an important element of the decision-making mechanism was that the decision itself was made not in the capital, but at lower levels, and that the programmes themselves were drawn up there. I definitely think that's a good thing. So I trust that the course of development, which is characteristic of Győr-Moson-Sopron County and the city of Győr, will, of course, characterize the country in the next period. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-22-254	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP. Here.
u2017-05-22-255	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I generally do not like such political debates, because what I find, at least in recent years, has been my experience that everyone talks to each other, and there is not really a constructive motion, nor is there really a reflection that makes sense, but if it has already been initiated, let us check out this political debate day. I would not like to repeat the statistics that many of you have drawn here, but I still have to say some, and it was good for me that a fellow Member from Győr-Moson-Sopron County spoke before me, because I wanted to talk primarily about income and the income of the rural population. You know, in a country, no matter where this country is located, there are always territorial differences. That's what's in England, there's Germany, there's Switzerland, there's North America, practically everywhere. The other issue is that politics, seeing these differences, where it intervenes. Does the intervention go in the direction that the differences even increase, whether this is a territorial difference, income difference, infrastructure difference, including human infrastructure, fixed infrastructure, that they are increased by government policy, or that they are trying to reduce? I see in the voices that almost all governments are trying to reduce these differences, but the practice is completely different. There can be beautiful figures about the developments and where they went, what we built; there are already so many bridges in this country that they don't have any number; there are so many refurbished hospitals that we can't even keep track of. It's just that, you know, there's no reason for a hospital to be built or renovated if there's no doctor in it to heal. They spent and booked 5-10 billion forints for each renovation, if there is no specialist to feed the patients. And even if the people who should be using these services don't even get to the service facility. From the income side, it seems that four fifths of the population in Hungary are unable to save anything. That means, technically, he lives overnight. It is clear in Hungary that the state spends much, much more on itself than, say, the average of the European Union or the neighbouring countries. Unnecessary luxuries, unnecessary investments, excess benefits for government policy. If we look at the public procurement market, we see that every year some HUF 2000 billion is administered only in public procurements, and this shows who in the public procurement markets are the ones who are pushing and who are getting orders. Well, fashionably, they say it's the oligarchs, but it's not just them. I checked it out, but I'm still going to get a stats report. Fifteen years ago, the hundred richest Hungarian assets were 632 billion forints, and in 2017 this property grew to 3380 billion forints. The wealthiest in this period increased their wealth by five times, while the average Hungarian wealth barely increased or did not grow at all. Last week there was a survey carried out by a civil society organization, because the government statistical office - I call it - hasn't been doing minimums in two years. This NGO found that 29 percent and roughly one third of the Hungarian population live below the minimum living standards. If we continue to dissect these statistics, it can also be seen that where they do not have children, when we look at households where there are no children, there is 23 percent of this life below the minimum living standards, and in households with children, it is more than 51 percent. It's an incredible risk to have a family with a child. Dear fellow Members, If you look at the income tithes, in addition to the income tithes, households can be divided into decylis, because this minimum of living is interesting to me because they measure household types in it. This shows that 100 percent of the households in the lower decylis live below the minimum living, 99 percent of the second-tenth households, 64 percent of the third-tenth households, and 17 percent of the fourth-tenth households live below the minimum living. Where do these households concentrate? Among other things, North-Hungary, including North-East Hungary. The North Hungarian region is in deep-flying, and several people have referred to it here. I said that I was even happy that my fellow Member from Győr spoke before me, because it clearly shows that this is not only about the large income differences between the different regions of the country, but also about the systematic fragmentation of this country. Minister Lazarus boasted that the average wage in Budapest was 319 thousand forints. Yeah. But in Győr, which we would think would lead, the average wage is HUF 151,000, and in Szabolcs County it is HUF 88,000. I looked at it in detail, and I was curious about health care. In my county, Heves County, the average wage is 126 thousand forints, but the average wage of the people doing the physical work is 59,793 forints. The same average wage in Zala County, which was 126 thousand in Heves County, is only 108 thousand forints, and the physicals earn 68 500 forints. The question of what to buy from a net wage of 59 thousand forints is inevitable. The question is that the person doing physical work in health care, be the patient's keeper, be it a boiler heater, has a net income of HUF 59 thousand. They ask the question that this cannot be done, because the law requires that at least the minimum wage be employed and the minimum wage has a higher net than this. It is not so, my fellow Members, but it is so that these people are employed for 6 hours and 4 hours, and that is why the net income of these people is coming out to 59 thousand forints! [[Constant noise from the benches of the governing parties. Gábor Bányai: You've been watching the wrong year, Louis! Dr. Zoltán Kovács' intervention.]] In these areas, it is obvious, not only in health care, education, adult education, social care systems, that the Hungarian state spends significantly less than the countries with similar development in terms of GDP, it spends a lot less in scale. [[18.30]] In rural settlements, rural districts, or at least in our area, you can only find a developer teacher, you can find a physical therapist in an indicator, and early development is forgotten in most places, only the concept is known, because there is no specialist in the area. The labour market's narrowed down. As a result, it is obvious that there is a lack of prospects, and inequalities are increasing. There are walks in the region of North-East Hungary, and I can also say the North Great Plain and North Hungary, where within settlement the inequality indicator is 35 times the income of people with the lowest income and the two with the highest income, within a village there is 35 times the income inequality. Old age is obvious. In settlements, especially small settlements, the population is replaced, because the trend is that the urban poor move to the village buying up cheap property, and those people with mobility, with some skills or convertable knowledge, go to the cities, or go out of the country, and as a result, the population is replaced. As a result, these micro-regions or micro-regions are being segmented. My colleague from Ozd was here, and he spoke two years ago. There was a conference in Ozd recently, and there I was doing a tutorial myself. Just Ozdon, think about it, there are 16 segregations, 29 in the Ozd district, and the settlement program is dead, virtually nothing the government is doing to at least reduce these segregations, even if it cannot be eradicated overnight. Of course, this will have sociological consequences for this policy to continue, because there is a clear lack of jobs in micro-regions and micro-regions. If there are fewer jobs, then it is clear that the intellectuals in the region will be lost, if the intellectuals are lost, then obviously the mobiles will leave that area and the elderly will remain. If only the elderly remain in these villages or micro-regions, the infrastructure will be decommissioned. If the infrastructure is down and the intellectuals are gone, then the education will be ruined. If all this has gone down, then there is a democratic deficit, and then the local kings rule in a village or a small region or a microregion. Consequently, the ability to assert interest will be reduced. After that, as there will be no ability to assert interest, the infrastructure will be further reduced, the migration will be even higher, and the quality of the services will be below the bottom of the frog. Of course, this will result in fewer people remaining in these small regions, in these microregions, in these villages, and even less work will go there, and the service will be even lower, and therefore the income will be even lower. What's the problem? I think that the channels of mobility should be opened - one. Two: inequalities must be reduced, government policies should be pursued where inequalities are reduced. Job creation needs to be rethinked, and even public intervention must be undertaken, because these settlements will be depopulated and the countryside will die. Housing conditions need to be improved and segregations should be eliminated. Community transport needs to be developed, with much more resources involved. Adult training and retraining should be extended. Social services should be developed in rural areas and basic health care should be strengthened. I will listen to Bence Rétvári until the morning about the miracles he has done in health care, but you know, fellow Members, there is no longer a general doctor in the Abaúj region, there is no general doctor in the Upper Jasha region, every general doctor in the Abaúj region is retired in primary care, and more than 70 percent of retired general practitioners are over 70 years old. In five years, there will be no care there as the whole area ages. We believe that, in proportion to GDP, there should be at least 2 percent more funding for education, 3-4 percent more resources for health care, at least 2 percent more for re-training, at least 8 percent more money for social protection, and at least 2 percent more for community transport. Of course, people with basic economics skills can ask where all this money comes from. Well, among other things, what my fellow Member has said is that Viktor Orbán does not need to move to the Castle, he does not need to build nearly 200 shooting grounds, he does not need to spend tens of billions on the small train, because no one travels on it, and we can list until morning what the government should not spend on and where these resources should be. This money belongs to the rural population. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-22-256	Thank you. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Miklós Kis asked for the floor. Here.
u2017-05-22-257	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you very much for the initiative of opposition parties to address our economic and social challenges so important to rural life on such a day of debate. As the Minister has pointed out, it is felt, and I ask you to look at this in a slightly more global context, what challenges Hungary is facing, what opportunities it has, what goals we want to put before ourselves, and let us look at this in a way that is very difficult to be free from and independent from global processes. There has been a lot of talk here today about goals such as job creation, infrastructure development, education, health care. Let us not forget, for example, when we talk about the inequality of social differences, and I have mentioned that we are facing global challenges, these two go hand in hand, and, indeed, Hungary is not the only one meeting these challenges. If we look at developed countries or countries with much more advanced or even greater economic power than we do, the same social differences are coming up, and there the gap between the poorer and the richer is growing, so this is not a Hungarian feature. I ask you not to try to suggest that this is the result of the past year, because this is not the result of the work of the Hungarian government, but a part of the global process that is being suffered not only in Hungary, but in many countries in the world, I could even list Germany from the United States of America, but I do not have the time frame available to explain this further. If we have defined at least the goals that the Hungarian government, the current Hungarian government, must set before itself, which I have already spoken about, then we also need to look at the tools available for this. There's a lot in the government's hands. If we are talking about rural development, I would like to talk about them in more detail, such as land policy, aid policy, but this includes tax policy, employment policy, and so much is available as an instrument. Part of the support policy currently provides the largest resources, namely, thanks to our membership of the European Union, the possibility of a cohesion or structural or rural development programme coming from the European Union. My State Secretary belongs to the latter, and I expressly resent it when the president of a party describes the rural development programme as rural destruction. So I hope that you will also read my rural development programme, which the government has written together, and then change your opinion. I don't think you have to live in the House building with such demagogic terms. That rural development programme seeks to address precisely those objectives and to provide the opportunity to increase the quality of life of people living in agriculture, to improve quality of life, to increase their competitiveness, to create more jobs. I think it is an illusion that everything will be solved in agriculture, but I have heard unemployment a lot today. Interestingly, when we ask people in agriculture, there is a constant complaint that there are not enough skilled workers; therefore, we are talking about skilled workers. We think, at least, that if the education policy continues in this area in the coming years on the basis of the results of recent years, then, especially thanks to dual training, there will also be a skilled workforce available for those living in agriculture, but not only for agricultural enterprises, but also for businesses living in rural areas, which are also very lacking. There's a huge shortage of professionals. We must be very focused on making better use of the possibility of dual training, even as we are doing now, and strengthening these skilled jobs in agriculture and other rural businesses. Indeed, if these improvements are implemented, and will be implemented, which has been published in recent months and in recent years as a call for proposals, and the beneficiaries will do so, then there will be a direct consequence of job creation; not only because we require applicants in many cases, but they themselves will try to create a mass of jobs thanks to capacity expansion. Of course, this requires a skilled workforce, and there is still room for that. [[18.40]] About property policy. I do not want to get into it, because we have discussed the government goals of property policy and opposition arguments many times, even for debate in Parliament, here in Parliament. Of course, it is always interesting to listen when, say, opposition representatives miss helping medium-sized enterprises and come up with an Austrian example. Yes, indeed, there is a completely different system in Austria, with priority support for small and medium-sized economies. Let us not forget, however, that there was no cluttering there, and there were no small Hungarian peasant families like what was in Hungary, and there was no 40 years of socialism, which resulted in the complete liquidation of Hungarian family farms. However, it is very difficult to reduce such a competitive advantage in a few years or even in a few decades. And it is important to take an example of the means used by either an Austrian or a Polish or an agricultural government in our region. It is no secret that we have also examined these instruments, because we believe that if these countries can strengthen in the surrounding regions, then if Hungary uses these tools - and that is what we have done in this programme - then there is a good chance that we will be able to meet these goals. It was therefore necessary to look for good instruments for the objectives, and I think that the rural development programme reflects this well. But, of course, a lot of other measures are needed, and there are a lot of instruments available to a government that can help people living in rural areas to live and develop rural businesses and rural settlements. It is therefore very important to avoid demagogic wording as much as possible. With regard to the common agricultural policy, I often encounter such ideas, especially when we hear the support of the great estates and the oligarchs. Interestingly, if someone were to examine how the European common agricultural policy works, it was only Hungary that took advantage of the possibility of withdrawing subsidies from large farms above a certain limit. And the phama no longer talks about it, and those who criticize it have an interesting way of forgetting that, at the same time, larger farms with very serious livestock farming are helped by subsidies linked to production from the national budget that can even compensate for the loss of these resources. [[Zoltán Gőgös: You have to pay for it, Mr. Secretary of State.]] So we must finally see what is one of the main lessons learned from the 2007-13 period. [[Zoltán Pride: It's not paid!]] , and this is not said by us, but by the professional studies that have carried out the end result of the seven-year cycle as an ex post evaluation, that the type of competitiveness increase or the type of investment aid that marked these seven years is quite simply a dead end in many cases. Field crop production: despite the previous government's allocation of hundreds of billions to field crop producers during the previous cycle, they did not participate in job creation at all, the large economies did not participate in job creation at all. They work for a lot of people, but they didn't create any additional jobs at all. Small and medium-sized agricultural enterprises are the ones that can and should be given the opportunity to do so, especially in sectors such as livestock farming, gardening, because these are sectors [[Zoltán Grimlock: They don't do any of them.]] where jobs can really still be created. Illusion is that arable crops, if we continue to support them, then jobs will be created there. This is why we have broken up in this programme, and we are trying to develop other, more labour-intensive sectors, and we have not yet talked about added value: these businesses will be successful if we revive the Hungarian food industry. One of the biggest lessons learned from the 1990s is that the Hungarian food industry was first privatized, and then these companies were mostly closed by foreigners or equalized to nothing. So we must rebuild the Hungarian food industry. Moreover, as you can see, the rural development programme is not the only source of funding for this, in addition to the large investment support of the Ministry of National Economy through export subsidies from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - and I have not even mentioned GINOP - there is a very wide range of support for the Hungarian food industry in medium and large enterprises. We provide resources from the rural development programme for smaller and medium-sized enterprises. We believe that if we put the food industry on the right track, and we need very serious investment and investment, because we are very behind, but if we do that, then the food industry will also drag agriculture along and we can finally achieve what would be of particular importance to agricultural enterprises, for example, to increase their income per hectare. We believe that the common agricultural policy can bring about changes in the short, medium and long term, in any way that will force people living in Hungarian agriculture and, above all, people from arable crops to think. Plants with added value and need to be produced in the next period that are much less dependent on aid policy and will be able to help create additional income. What do I mean? If a food business makes the necessary investments in the countryside, it is likely that it will buy out plants, vegetable products or even fruit products that can generate much more income per hectare for smaller businesses. Thus, areas for living can be provided even if they are owned by a smaller economy. In addition, we think that the rural development programme is very colourful, because it must not only serve the agricultural objectives, but also help the settlements, we are talking about settlements in rural areas of less than ten thousand inhabitants, and also the external areas belonging to the metropolitan areas in which a significant part of the country still lives. Yes, it has been said, for example, that IT developments are needed that are planned by the government, but why develop such ones if there is no electricity in some parts of the settlement. This is exactly what one of our programmes is about, the rural development programme has put significant resources on the continuation of the farm development programme, and we are placing serious attention on the construction of the electricity grid, for example, thus also ensuring that the quality of life of people living in farms who currently have to live on unelectric farms and that their children may go to school from there. I come from such a settlement, so I know exactly what problems we face in the sandback. The farm development programme provided by the national budget was an excellent instrument for this, and we will continue to do so from the rural development programme. We therefore believe that the available instruments that we have incorporated in the rural development programme must do so. It is necessary to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises. There was also a serious debate about the fact that large companies do not really want to see this, that they can only have access to 20% of investment aid, and we believe that in order for the rural quality of life to improve significantly, it is essential to strengthen agriculture, and that can only be done substantially through small and medium-sized family farms. What we consider to be a small and medium-sized family economy is often also a provocation to make a statement on figures. I come from a settlement where we can provide a family with plenty of living with a five-hare estate size, even though it's on the sandback. So it is not always important to know how many hundred acres you have or how many ten acres you have or how many tens of thousands of acres you have. Of course, from an ownership policy perspective, it is very important that these rates are more normal and not the type of large economy that has been developed in recent decades, because if the rural area, the municipality, is managed by only 5 or 10 larger agricultural enterprises, then there is very little chance for those living in that village to create jobs or provide work. We are therefore convinced that this programme will bring its results. We are also a little lucky, because economic processes are such that income is becoming increasingly visible in agriculture. This, of course, is partly due to the aid policy and to the changes that we have introduced, using the possibilities of the common agricultural policy. But we also believe that the lessons that the previous government has learned in the previous seven-year cycle should be learned, at least we believe that it has made a serious mistake. Accordingly, this rural development programme has been planned, and applications have been issued accordingly, and, accordingly, most investment aid will be able to be assessed by the end of the summer in 2017, and investments will be able to start, at least those that have not yet been started, as many are fortunately, even at their own risk, but they have started these investments. There will be results, and I am convinced that the work that has been done will also have results. This does not mean, of course, that the government can sit back, because we are still facing a huge challenge. It is enough for me to mention the idea of undivided commons in property policy; it is enough to mention in the aid policy the new challenges of the common agricultural policy. [[18.50]] So we have a lot of other tasks ahead of us that, I think, are waiting for a solution, but I am sure that if, in addition to substantive professional debates, we can conduct these debates with the opposition, then I am convinced that this will also have a positive and beneficial impact on rural development and on rural life. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-05-22-258	Thank you. Here comes Congressman László Pósán, Fidesz.
u2017-05-22-259	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. First, allow me to respond to some of the suggestions made earlier. The first: Lajos Korózs mentioned that in Heves County, where he comes from, there are not enough physiotherapists, development educators, medical educators. This is probably the case, so I have no intention of debating it, and let us even say that in many places similar problems have to be dealt with. However, it is good to record that this did not happen overnight. It's a very old problem. And let's add that this kind of training to the east of the Danube was virtually non-existent. To tell you the truth, I really don't know why the former governments didn't pay attention to this and the profession didn't pick this up. In essence, a breakthrough has now been achieved, with two training courses in Nyíregyháza and Debrecen starting in September. I think that the problem that Mr Korózs raised, which is real, on the other hand, shows that this government has reacted to this problem and is trying to promote the solution. But we also need to know that a course has some exits, so you can't hope for a miracle from one moment to the next. Erzsébet Schmuck said that the country split in two, Budapest and Western Hungary on one side and all the others on the other. I think that such an approach reflects a lack of knowledge of reality. I come from Debrecen, I am a Member of Debrecen, and allow me to say that this is not at all correct for Debrecen, its narrower and wider regions, i.e. the Schmuck Erzsébet statement. There must be a role in this, too, in the fact that there has been civilian leadership at the head of the city since 98 and that we approach the whole region on the basis of this approach. And if you look at what kind of headphones you've often had to deal with, it can be a teller again. Between 1990-98, when MSZP-SZDSZ governed the city, for example, they wanted to privatize the airport, which, I note, was done nationwide. In 1998, when there was a change in local governance, this was prevented. Since then, I report that the airport in Debrecen is operating well, developing dynamically, operating international air traffic and can be classified nicely. The sectors that were privatised during the MSZP-SZDSZ governments must be honestly said that their owners in Debrecen have wound up nicely. The most common example is Hajdú Bet. We know Bajnai Gordon's ignominious role in this matter. He's destroyed a lot of jobs, suppliers, which not one of them has even claimed human lives. But the canning factory was also closed, and the Reemtsma, the tobacco factory, could still be classified. The city obviously had no effect on such things. What the city's leadership had, however, had an impact and could promote development, serious things happened there, even when there was a national political counterwind. A swimming pool was built, an adventure bath, which, of course, significantly increased the tourist attraction, the same applies to the Kölcsey Center, the Modern Art Gallery and, of course, to the airport. But the development of the airport, which is determined on one side, and to this day it is the city, in addition to being an important economic development catalyst, let's be honest with the fact that it worked with incredible anomalies. During the period of the Gyurcsány government, the airport in Debrecen became international with the city having to pay for border control costs, which is simply nonsense. The administration of international border crossings was essentially shaken by the state. Debrecen did, however, because he knew that this made sense and had significance for the future; time proved this, by the way. The city of Debrecen has applied under the integrated regional development programme and has already paid out of the county-righted cities. According to the May 2017 data, it is HUF 24.9 billion, i.e. almost HUF 25 billion. 63 out of 66 aid applications were awarded a total of HUF 27.2 billion, and the amount paid so far was HUF 24.9 billion. So we're in pretty good shape. And then I hadn't talked about what we call the "Modern Cities" program. It is the main task of which, after all, is that the country's single-centricity, which has developed over long and long decades - this obviously has a history going all the way back to before the war, so make no mistake, I do not wish to focus responsibility here on a certain point of time, but it is a fact that there is a very strong Budapest-centricity - well, the modern-city programme is trying to resolve this, and I think it is very right, and it is trying to strengthen the kind of local conservation force without which rural development is unimaginable. The city of Debrecen, in its programme of modern cities, was able to outline a resource requirement of HUF 75.8 billion in a sense that includes useful and forward-looking developments. Of course, this does not mean decorating the main square, but it is specifically about improvements, innovative interventions that will continue to generate economic development. Namely, this includes the development of the industrial park. Debrecen is in the lucky position that she has practically outgrown her current industrial park and we want to create a new one. This has certain cost implications, mostly of an infrastructure nature. But it is necessary, because from the other side, there is a great deal of interest, from the investor side to the city, towards the city. Industrial investment has increased incredibly over recent years. Airport development continues to be included, which is included in the programme of modern cities. In essence, technical conditions - and this is what the proposal and the programme for this is about - have to be established, which will represent the most modern standards for air transport. Transport development is also included. During this, a large-scale integrated, so-called intermodal transport hub is established. This, too, has long been waiting for you, and it is specifically designed to strengthen the role of the regional centre in Debrecen and to provide an adequate transport opportunity for both employers and workers on all sides. This programme specifically includes the establishment of an educational project relating to investment promotion, an international primary and secondary school in English. This is essentially intended to promote the introduction of external investors' management and family members, their more permanent presence in Debrecen, and essentially to create or facilitate the emergence of high value-added jobs and investments in the city. Of course, the investment and development of private companies are also closely linked to the programme of modern cities. They are partly related to the local government, partly to the things and development ideas of the University of Debrecen. If I may, I would like to highlight a few that are important in this regard. The Pharma-flight International Science and Service Centre is supported by a budget of 3.4 billion. This is interesting and novel from the point of view of the university's participation, and the university specifically deals with small-scale production of medicinal products, and it is an English language pilot training; it is not small aircraft, plant protection and other small machinery, but pilots and simulators of large passenger machinery, as appropriate. This is a very serious investment that is linked to the start of an international pilot training course at the University of Debrecen as of September. These are also significant steps for the development of the city. [[19.00]] This private company received HUF 2 billion for the establishment of NI Hungary Science Park, also linked to the high value added corporate culture and related educational needs provided by the university. In this respect, the University of Debrecen is one of the very important drivers of economic development in the region. In addition to the fact that the University of Debrecen has received significant grants to increase the quality of higher education activities, research and development, innovation, education development, various regional and sectoral cooperations and so on, together with them amounting to approximately 40 billion, it has developed a circle of cooperation and will develop even more in the future with industry, which has essentially created a ring of industrial companies around the university in the form of clusters. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] This is also a significant revenue for the university, and on the other hand, the university can significantly support the labour needs or other investment needs of that company with its own knowledge. For example, Richter and the University of Debrecen jointly set up a small series of vaccine factories. Or the University of Debrecen, for example, produces isotopes for medical applications, which are basically important in diagnostics and simply sells them on the market. So in this sense, the university itself appears as a market player, as a place of education and research. And thanks to this, in 2016 the total balance sheet of the University of Debrecen was HUF 123 billion. This means that if universities take advantage of the opportunities they have and can link them to the different economic needs in this regard, at least as an example of Debrecen's case, that this will lead to very serious cooperation that will benefit everyone, with concrete benefits that can be expressed in money and benefits from other aspects. I think this is certainly forward-looking in this regard. It is not by chance that a significant part of the development in Debrecen in the programme of modern cities is in this sense more than municipal, more than corporate and more than university, but they appear together, combined, and can be a significant pull together in the future. I hope that this will be a success and that similar developments can be made in many other cities. Because then we can really say that these county-righted cities can become alternative, significant economic regional centres, which are not in one case and quite rightly, no matter how strange it sounds, but it must be said that Budapest can become worthy competitors. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-22-260	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs.
u2017-05-22-261	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, When I heard the words of János Lázár Bülbülsól, indeed, I drank the words of the mad-spoken Minister with awe. It was a great pleasure to hear him say such things. He also referred to his great villager predecessors. I would also refer to the great ancestors, such as Sándor Csoóri, who said that this country, this nation, has been held for a thousand years by the Hungarian village, the Hungarian countryside. In such cases, the question must be asked: if you are aware of this on the government side, then why is it that we often see that they are not doing so. Here Minister said his critical thoughts about, say, Péter Mihályi's devastating, village-destroying activities. Yes, the flagbearer of the crazy idea of SZDSZ, delegated to the State Reform Committee, continued the communist village-destroying idea of 1971 when most of our settlements were declared non-participated. The same logic followed then, unfortunately, from 2002 in Hungary. I would like to add so much, Mr Little Secretary of State here spoke about global processes and challenges. We are obviously aware of these global challenges here in the opposition benches, and we also know that, let us say, the countryside is affected by just as difficult problems, I do that, in Italy, as well as in Italy, and similar processes work there, so let us just think about depopulation. And if we are to ask some questions here and highlight certain problems, it is not because such evil demagogues are sitting in opposition, and we have nothing better to do, but because we believe that there are such strange things that there are brakes and counterweights, and as opposition representatives, let us say, we should also have the task of enlightening and presenting to you that other side of the coin. For example, the lead speaker of the KDNP, my colleague László Szászfalvi, has unfortunately left this debate. By the way, he's from South Somogy. He's the single-elected parliamentary representative of the Somogy 2nd Constituencies. I wasn't elected personally, I came here from a list to Parliament, but believe me, I feel that I own that area as much as he does, the fate of the villages belonging to the Churgo, the Barchi or the district of Nagyatád. In fact, it would be nice if he had stayed, but he must have been busy. He told me what wonderful improvements were made there, and I would like to show by example that everything is not as shiny as government statistics show, because indeed, the reality in the Hungarian reality in the countryside often does not look like it is being exposed to the population of the countryside from propaganda posters. For example, our fellow Member Font said that serious steps have been taken to dismantle the large estate system. Let me give you some examples of South Somogy. If you look at Somogy County, they were freed from 10,000 acres of land here at the state auction, about 12 billion forints of this was released into the budget. One third of this was combined by ten major interests, including the Claessens family, which dominated a major region of South Somogy, whose members bought almost a thousand hectares of land at this auction, in total worth HUF 1 billion. Then how is that? Allow me to draw attention to these outstanding examples from the opposition, from here, from the benches of Jobbik. Or my fellow Member said that there has been a serious shift towards hand-to-hand labour-intensive sectors. How it is in the country, how it is not, and then, in the great complexity of my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar, he is criticizing it here. You're watching the debate, Mr. Secretary. I'd like to set a local example. For example, there is the other large interest, the Benetton family's estate in the vicinity of Scroogeg and Rinyaszent Király, with its own 6-7-8 or 10,000 hectares of land and land estate. Even the mayors in the area don't really know exactly what a great estate they've got for you. You have to see how many people are employed on these 8,000 or 10,000 acres. The mayors would be talking about 20 or a few people if we questioned them. But they're talking about 20 or a few people. And here's the next question. Why can't this oligarch, the richest man in the world or the fashion magnate, the mogul of the world, how do I put it, so that I don't insult him, force him to provide jobs for the people of South Somogy? And if Mr. Big Secretary is right, because he's right a lot, and in the countryside, let's say, they don't want to work with pigs, they don't want to work in agriculture, then why can't the Benettons be forced, say, to open a sewing shop for hundreds of people here, as they did in Serbia, to do, in Kadarku, which is hit by unemployment? These questions should also be answered in such a debate. As well as the fact that my fellow Member of Szászfalvi is talking about the spiritual development of the countryside and the strengthening of the communities, how the hell could it happen, I am sorry that the upper school of the school of Vízvár, founded in 1742, was executed with a noble simplicity this year; and last year, because it was no longer possible to start a new upper school. I know, by law, 56 children were needed for high school, and instead there was 42. A single ministerial pen stroke would have sufficed for this school, for which the community stood up and worked well, to live at least as long as there were so many children. I know your demographics are a tragic picture. [[19.10]] But when it comes to a Christian-conservative government, the euthanasia of the village should not have been achieved in this way, because a school closure, the closure of a well-functioning school of such a small settlement, is nothing more than the destruction of the village, the execution of the village. I would like to quote their hopes to my fellow Member of Szászfalvi, if he were here, Sándor Hopenik:.. Don't leave the church, / The church and the school. Then how does this work in real life? This was indeed a huge mistake, and I feel it is my duty to draw this attention to it, and to ask if Mr Rétvári is here, what about, for example, a petition from disgruntled parents who have been sent to the ministry and have not yet received an answer to this. In Hungary in 2016-17, how can more parents sign a petition for the preservation of their school in the village than many people, say, went to vote in 2014, and voted for all kinds of parties, including the governing parties, including us, so the villagers felt better about this school rescue case than, say, participating in the elections, and they do not get an answer? That can't happen in a normal country. And one more thing: I'm not saying it, but let's say it's the pro-government congressman or mayor of Barcs. It seems that the county has been cut in half, and no development is being made south of Kaposvár. I'm not saying it. I'm saying it's a pro-government mayor. Or another mayor also pro-government - I would not name him because his statement was not public - he said that major politics can only think in the language of mathematics, because what matters to him is how many people live in the countryside. And we also know that, let's say, in small settlements of less than a thousand people, 7.5 percent of the population live overall, so they don't deal with their problems. They don't think it's worth it. There won't be a lot of votes. Or there is the other mayor, or the third mayor, who, due to the sociocultural and economic degradation, which is observed in, say, the southern part of our county, said that the reservation begins south of Kaposvár. And if a person goes not only to fancy village days, where, say, he can parade around with his local potentates, but also really take the trouble to walk around and see in depth what kind of processes are taking place in the countryside, then he should give the truth to this mayor, who, by the way, is not a better mayor. Indeed, we become a reservation, and that decaying slope seems unstoppable at present.77 settlements belong to the Somogy 2nd constituency. In the 77 settlements, 1200 people die each year, and about 300 people migrate from here, which is 1500 people. On the other hand, the number of births barely exceeds 700. Twice as many people die more than twice as many as are born. What about these settlements? What about those little villages, that little settlement under 33, 500 people, that small village and that other settlement between 22, 500 and 1,000 souls, where there are only 22,000 people living, so mathematics and, where appropriate, electoral mathematics also applies here? 55 settlements with a total of 22,000 people, as many souls as live in Nagyatad and Barcson - 55 problems. These people who live there often feel like they've been wiped off the map. Or I told you here: He was Jenő Hidden's contemporary, he wrote similar novels. In his novel Fort forgotten, there is a scene where Field Marshal Florion's cigar ash drops on the map and disappears Fort 103. Everyone forgets about that. In many cases, this is how these people feel in South Somogy. They have been forgotten about the major policy and to be true to Mr Great Secretary of State when he said that not only major politics depends on many things: indeed, not only on big politics, but also on local leaders. For example, there may have been such madness in the 90 percent population of Gypsies, over 600 enthusiastic Istvándi, that the previous mayor thought that more than 100 million forints of business tax income from oil and natural gas researchers in the area should be spent on decorative covering. Now they can stand on the facade, squatting, instead of investing in the future, and helping those talented children, say, with scholarships who could have done something, who had some kind of vision in their heads, who would have stayed there as a model tax model in their village to boost that community, because it is a question of integration that I should have attached this to it, too, in the 21st century. 1st century will be one of Hungary's most important questions. And if I do not want to go too far away from South Somogy, then it should be said that the issue of Hungarian-Gypsy coexistence is similar to that of the north-eastern parts of the country, here, in South Transdanubia, very, very relevant fellow Members. And if they don't do something about it, or even if a social cooperative is established, then all sorts of Voldemorts will handle it themselves nicely or refuse to let go of the hand of a gypsy who, in many cases, has disposed of huge funds under very, very suspicious circumstances, which would otherwise have been intended for integration by the taxpayers of the country, even more beautiful futures and perspectives in these rural regions will not be so much. Otherwise, we should not only support agriculture in the countryside, because then let me stress once again: Mr Secretary of State may indeed be right, there are people who do not want to work on the tracks of grandparents, say, livestock or crop production, they say that they should have some plant they go into and work nicely from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. That is why, let's say, small and medium-sized enterprises should be better supported, with a total of 36 percent of employees working. However, we can find a GINOP call where it is announced, for example, for micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, but under the conditions there is a net HUF 3 billion turnover and 100 employees. Another uncoherence, because despite the nominal term, a small enterprise cannot use it, is certain. Institutional care is terrible. Moreover, it should also be appreciated that professionals who have remained in the countryside and who, as heroes of everyday life, perform the tasks that still retain these rural regions and ensure the presence of the state there. However, we must see that in my constituency there are 18,000 residents who do not have a general practitioner in their own settlement. 51,000 people live in settlements where there are no permanent pediatricians present, 29 000 live in settlements in the constituency where there are no pharmacy, 28 thousand where there are no permanent policemen, not even in the form of a district commissioner. These are statistical data from my own constituency, from which I came here not individually, but this fact, this reality, and if this goes on, we can safely say that the Hungarian state is about to give up these areas, and these areas are going to be mine. Here I have said many times, the forested bush will grow in the same way as these villages, these depopulated villages, which, by the way, are 40 percent in Somogy County as the picture before the traveler, let's say, the XVIII. At the beginning of the century, after the Turkish tour, if he came to Somogy County, his journey would have taken me this way. What we need to see, Mr. Secretary of State, is that long-term extreme poverty is concentrated here, in these small settlements, on these tiny villages. It would also be a good question, however, how the paper-based national development that you have announced in 2030 and the programme points set out therein have been implemented. For example, did the assessment of that property and the development of some kind of draft take place to see how it should be used? Only in this constituency, where I came from, there are about 30,000 residential properties. Of these 30,000 residential properties, 6,000 are empty. What will be the fate of this indestructible fortune? As the population, as the demographic indicators indicate, is slipping down in these districts, so does the built wealth, and dust with fallen walls, with fallen fences, with even fallen buildings, and very sadly indicate the fate of these areas, if there is no very urgent and very decisive public attention and state aid for such regions, such as small regions. Thank you for listening. [[19.20]]
u2017-05-22-262	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman János Bencsik.
u2017-05-22-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! At the beginning of the debate day, my colleague Gábor Harangozó concluded that a programme-based development policy was needed. You are absolutely right, I agree with this, from a practical side, from an experience-based side, but it is also necessary that the community of people living in the region should also form an alliance of values and interests. It is therefore very important that the development of a given region begins with precisely defined objectives, but it is at least as important to have an alliance of values and interests behind it and to have the necessary knowledge of the community that wants to achieve those goals. In 1990, when I was first elected for community service and became mayor of Tatabánya, the one-sided socialist major industry collapsed in Tatabánya and its region, in neighbouring cities, we could say Russian girl and Dorogo. Only 12,000 jobs were lost in Tatabánya, so 12,000 people and their families lost their livelihood in full or in part. And what was left behind after the one-sidedly developed, rather polluting industry was a ragged, damaged, recultivated area to heal landscape wounds. This includes the pollution of surface water, groundwater, pollution of air and soil by this large industry. So when we had to rethink where, what resources we had, how we wanted to set up the future, we had to face the fact that the resources of the countryside had been destroyed to such an extent that if we didn't deal with their restoration very soon, first of all, even though we were thinking about replacing the jobs, even though we were thinking about creating a homely environment where people would enjoy themselves, and maybe the residents who had migrated will come back to this area, to work and live in the Tatai Basin. All we had to do was talk to each other, and not only the mayors, not just the municipalities, but also the mayors had to talk to representatives of the companies, also those who were in the process of failing, and those who were just thinking about creating a business themselves, ensuring the livelihood of their families and the rest of the community. And we had to talk to civil society organisations, NGOs who, in their immediate environment, thought it was important to have some sort of movement, some kind of outburst, because they said they wanted to live there, and they wanted their children and grandchildren to live there. And then there was an alliance, the Által-Vér Association - which is the largest river across the landscape, after all, a vessel that carries the water of the water catchment area all the way to the Danube - and in this alliance we have formulated the most important goals and acquired the necessary knowledge. There were some ancestors who were born or lived there and worked there, who were worth paying attention to. In the field of public administration Zoltán Magyary, in the field of innovation, Ottó Bláthy, Titus or Öveges professor, then in the field of sustainable water management and agriculture Samuel Mikoviny, who is also known for Stiavnica, who has spent several years in the Esterházy lordship of Tatán, and has contributed to the development of the region with a beautiful, planned pond system, to the development of the estate, to the development of irrigable orchards. So when you have the natural resource, you have the goal, you have the knowledge and you have the alliance of values and interests, you can start and you can look at what external resources can be obtained to complement the internal existing revenue. There weren't always such sources available! The thing is, I've been doing this kind of community work since 1990, and after 2010 the development resources that could be inserted into the mosaic little loops from which the development, the service, the infrastructure element, be it physical, be it intellectual infrastructure, was missing. In addition to the development of the industrial park, which was most important to us, we also had to pay attention to the rehabilitation of the environment. But while we are at the industrial park, there are three industrial parks in the Tata Basin: Russian girl - otherwise a socialist-led city, can be co-operated with her, with the city's management - Tatabánya and Tata, three industrial parks. Today we have made up for the lost jobs we suffered in the early 1990s, and we have put in place high added value activities that, I say, are now competing with either the Debrecen or even the Győr industrial culture. Who the hell would think Tatabánya is the flagship of the health industry in Hungary? Well, that's true. It was necessary to include research and development where biologists were employed, to hire 100 qualified biologists in recent years in order to be a well-prepared workforce for the production of medical reagents. And a part of them came from the region, another part from Budapest, the third part from different parts of the country, and a lot of people came back from adventure to Hungary because they said it made sense to work and work in such an innovative environment. But that doesn't make the fence a sausage. And if you think that you were able to get a step ahead and basically ensure the livelihoods of the people there, that's wrong, because that's not enough. It is true that it is not appropriate that my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, brought accurate figures, should only have said that in a debate two years ago, because he was talking about average incomes in 2015, so we looked at it, and he was talking about average incomes in 2015 and not gross, but net. But by the way, he was telling the truth, but he didn't add that we had to interpret it from a different time band and count differently. But in addition, I say that it is factual, and it can also be debated. But one thing is certain that today's average income is not enough to ensure in every respect the replacement of lost physical strength, the restoration of ill health, the cost of continuous learning, the education of children or grandchildren. Of course, you can't do that. So it took us two and a half decades to get to the basic level of safety. So what else did you have to do about it? We've taken advantage of the tender, if any. We have put waste management in order at regional level, with 85 settlements, because it makes no sense that either a city or two or three smaller cities should start themselves and make such improvements. Or the modernisation of regional sewage treatment. It has also been implemented in recent years with a billion-dollar investment. We're in a position to get water from a mine. So it's only the North Transdanubian Regional Waterworks that get water from two mines, from karst mines, by mining technology. These water mines had to be repaired, and technology had to be secured in order to provide healthy drinking water to 300 000 people. And then we got to what we basically created the Association of Altal-Vért itself, and we fixed it up, and we shook the Átal-Verre, the water catchment area of the Által-Verr. We've already minimized entry pollution sources, then we've fixed the Által blood vessel, and we're trying to get the resources needed to recuperate the Old Lake in Tata. And we continued to develop the service infrastructure. Yes, what you were talking about here, Secretary of State Rétvári, we have made a 10 billion-dollar development at St. Borbála Hospital in Tatabánya. [[Zoltán Haughty: But when?]] [[19.30]] And you can say it doesn't make sense because there's not enough doctors and few nurses. Of course, it must also be addressed, but the development policy side must also be seen that a local community, a political leadership or a municipal administration, has a fundamental obligation to replace hospital care in barracks built 60-70 years ago. If the same happens at three and four sites, it is not possible to organize the sick roads well, to be installed in one place, to be built in one place. If energy efficiency sources are available? Then put it next to development policy resources, and the existing buildings that are worth keeping should be renovated, because there will be less overhead, but the value of use will also be restored. It can be said that the position of the government and the governing parties is wrong that we are not primarily providing energy efficiency resources to the general public. When I was a State Secretary, I said that we would be able to use these funds most effectively if we were to renovate public institutions that are required by the state and the municipalities. In the stinking life - sorry for the word, for the expression - we will not get to the end of institution renovations and modernisation if energy resources are not involved. Thank God that this is also the priority of our hospitals, schools, government offices, police, district courts and everything. It can be said that these are not so spectacular investments, because you go there because you need to, not have fun. However, I beg you, basic public and municipal services should only be used under conditions that are as cheap as possible sustainable, modern, secure and even look like settlements. There's a lot to talk about. There's only one thing I want to talk about. Here it was said that people do not like to deal with land, and it is difficult to talk them into it. They must be loved; they must also be loved; the landscape in which we are also living people who are potentially going to be engaged in farming at the end. Who on earth thought that the church fair could grow from Naszály, a two-thousand-dollar small settlement, so that a rolling basket shopping community could be organized in the neighbouring big city, and after a few months of organizing work, this community has 500 stable customers, and every week it is necessary to hold a delivery day for 10-15 producers who are constantly there, even though they have to put together the packages and bring them together. Today, half a million traffic is being made on a handover day. But it also took dedicated people, local heroes, people who knew something, they could make a move. Well, they have to be supported, found, supported, helped, often not with money, but with a good word, with a love turn. Then you see that the woman who left the three shifts, the sure existence, bought a cow and started making cheese, and she started to take it, she started to market, and she couldn't make a full living of it, but we're gonna give her the opportunity, we're gonna help her market, she's gonna buy the second and third cows, and she's gonna go through the village, and she's gonna say, "People, that backyard, that 600-800 square feet, you're not gonna use it for anything, give it to me." With red testicles, with this, I'm gonna use this nicely, and the area's fine, we have the product, we can go to the market. [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] What do you need for that? I'd like to talk to the secretary of state about what else we need to do. We should also, say, also have the resources for the development of the Neszmély wine region that farmers are waiting for, and then you can put together the resources of the countryside with competence, knowledge, culture, local identity, and create market opportunities in cities that can restore cooperation between the city and the countryside, the towns and villages around it, if not as well as it was 70-80 years ago, before the war, the co-ordinating, but surely for many village young people the idea of staying there can be awakened and held there. Thank you very much for your attention. For us, rural development means treating the city and its countryside together and trying to make friends with the elements, the people and communities that were systematically separated 40-50 years ago. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-264	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó.
u2017-05-22-265	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In the past period, the debate day is similar to the previous one, and in general everyone says that today is going to be a professional debate day, and we will only make professional arguments. Obviously, everyone is trying to articulate their own political message in the first place. There's no problem with that and there's no problem, it's a routine choreography. However, there is a need to respond to the comments that have been made, and some things are absolutely important. If I may, I would like to start with this, but first of all, the last comment from the opposition side is from Ander Balázs, and I would like to respond to the suggestions made by Ander Balázs. Because there have been valuable points, and he has also mentioned issues that will in any case be an important element of the next period. I don't know anything about Benetton family, but I'm pretty sure they didn't just buy land. [[Interventions from the opposition side, including Zoltán Gőgös: But now! A lot. Lots of them.]] But certainly not to that extent, because I've never heard so much from anyone, so much, I'm absolutely sure. [[Interviews from Jobbik and MSZP.]] [[Interviews from Jobbik and MSZP.]] This is probably back to the period before 2010. Let's put it in its place, that's for sure. (Interjections from the lines of Jobbik and MSZP. ) What is important is that in his expo, János Lázár pointed out that it would be extremely important to consider and examine how the proportion of people employed in agriculture can be increased. I'm sure this will be an important topic for the coming months. My fellow Member spoke of the execution of the village when a school ceased. János Lázár spoke about this in his expo, saying that it is necessary to examine the situation of the settlements where the school ceases, and to ask the residents what to do with their school. So you mentioned two issues that the Minister pointed out in his exposé that we need to deal with separately. Speaking of Somogy: Indeed, South Somogy lives, lives and exists in a difficult situation, but North Somogy is in a good position. [[István Gábor Bellozó: Sure, because there is the Balaton.]] And the connecting road 67 is about to be completed, since its renovation has begun, to be more precise. It is true and true, even if it is not in the position of South Somogy, but it is in the position of the settlements in northern Hungary as well, as you said, that they have problems in South Somogy as well as in Northern Hungary in Nógrád County, Borsod County, Szabolcs-Szatmár or even Hajdú-Bihar County. I would refer back to a sentence of Gábor Harangozó, in which he mentioned the map of ghettoism. The ghetto map does not exactly match the proportion of the Roma population in the region, but it is approaching, by the way. He referred to the fact that the disadvantage is almost coincident with the presence of the Roma population. It is very important that the county of Somogy, one of the largest settlements, is also given an opportunity that is intended for the rural settlements of Hungary. For what we would like to achieve in the coming months and years, Minister János Lázár also said, on several occasions he stressed the things to be done, those which I can already make a clear reference to, and I dare say that in the next period we can take steps to alleviate something about the problem that we are discussing today on the debate day. One thing is certain that the problems did not just arise, the problems mainly arise in Somogy County because something happened to Hungary in 1920, in a situation in South Somogy that we cannot remedy in the next few years. God knows when we'll be able to do this or how we'll be able to solve it, but one thing's for sure, it's a conservation situation. On the other hand, it is our responsibility to be able to line up instruments that seem to improve prospects, which are actually worse now and then than expected. [[19.40]] But one thing is certain: when we do an autopsy on a debate day and look at what we can do next, we also need to remember what happened before. In order to examine the potential use of EU funds - and this has been mentioned by several people - it should be noted that for example, for municipalities under 10,000 people, where the world of transport is the most difficult and the weakest, 29 percent of the resources were used in the period between 7 and 13. From an area point of view, 82 percent of settlements over 10 thousand live in the territory of the country, i.e. 82 percent of Hungary lives in settlements and communities under 10 thousand people. So in this respect, in 2006, when the transport programme was drawn up, perhaps it was a serious mistake to leave the municipalities out of it and not to allow EU funds to catch up. Several people have mentioned the problems of transport, and if I can refer back, I have to say about the last two years, in which serious steps have been taken, in addition to the one- and two-digit roads, to renovate the lower roads. I can mention up to HUF 33 billion in 2014 or the next 64 billion programme, which was completed in 16 years. Or I dare say the following program, which will start in the summer, will be spent about HUF 100 billion by the next half of the year and used more accurately to refurbish the lower roads. In addition, it must be added that the development of the main roads helps the countryside. So when we talk about why we don't use more resources on the lower roads, let's not be unfair, because we know that exactly the connections between motorways and motorways provide good transport everywhere else, because that's what the lower roads carry traffic on. So I think that if we are trying to improve the inferior roads, then it is clear that we should start with the higher roads in the first place. In this respect, Hungary has been able to achieve an unprecedented opportunity through the performance of the economy, as we can now add domestic resources to the development of transport that did not exist before in our dreams. It is of the utmost importance that when critics are formulated, we should also pay attention to the intentions of their drafting. If I look back at the comments of the lead speakers, I must tell my friend Sallai R. Benedek, my fellow Member, that it was unfair when you said that during the municipal debt consolidation the municipalities used the resources they received from the Hungarian government irresponsiblely. This suggested that the consolidation amount went to the wrong place. The reason why this must be addressed is that I must reject it, because I remember exactly what the situation of the local authorities was as of 2002 and how they were bled out, almost completely ceased to function in 2006 and 7 respectively. So they had to help 2082 settlements, and that was because they had to carry out their mandatory duties. So in this respect, all the municipalities that received the opportunity from the Hungarian government used it well, and if they had not received it, I do not know what we would be talking about today. It is extremely important that Minister of State Miklós Kis also mentioned how much more people work in the world of agriculture. I think my fellow Member Haughty must have written it down if he didn't know that there was a significant change there, and the employment rate increased. István Nagy also talks about these issues, I do not want to mention them. But we need to know what we want. We would certainly like to achieve that, indeed, housing conditions, which are currently the biggest problem in rural Hungary, should be improved and a system should be set up that makes it clear that it can be beneficial to choose a place of residence in the countryside or not want to move. It is also certain that the greatest competitive disadvantage of rural settlements in Hungary is the distance in transport itself, since at the moment the settlements reach their locality headquarters between 11 and 40 minutes, the county seats are available between 20 and 45 minutes. So if there's a good way, if there's no right way, the distance is distance. And if the Hungarian government can help in this matter, so that it can compensate for this competitive disadvantage in some way, then it can best help that workers do not leave the settlements and do not become forced to move into the district seat, a county seat or an area where there is employment. Thus, when we consider the elements and means of catching up, it is clear that further improvements to the transport conditionalities will be highlighted, help to get to work and clearly improve housing conditions. In many cases, we can and should be able to help with investments made by municipalities in previous years, but they did not have enough resources for road rehabilitation in the construction of the utility network, for example. We can experience it in several municipalities, who are also in the countryside... I'd like to tell Erzsébet Schmuck that we're also in the country, and we don't yet have hay shovels, like they used to shovel in the LMP. [[Sallai R. Benedict: That's another party!]] Was it another party? It was pretty close, in a bush, just for the record. So the point is that we are also in the countryside, we are people living in the countryside, we know the problems well, but we also thanked Elizabeth for her contribution, and I just wanted to make sure that this was noted. What is important, however, is that the development of the Hungarian countryside is a question of Hungary as a whole, and it is a bad taste if someone tries to put today's debate day in the opposite direction. This is what happened when President Vona started saying that there should be no debate between the countryside and the capital. It's not like that. I think it is safe to say that rural people respect people in the capital as much as they do in Hungary. Maybe occasionally someone wants to direct the speech in this direction, but I don't think that's typical of today at all. It is of the utmost importance that in Hungary, in the world of rural development, the resources that are coming and coming should be spent as the decision maker wanted and intends. The current allocations and the current system guarantee this. I think there is an explanation for the delay to which several people have referred. In any case, the explanation is that we want to transfer funds to the municipalities on the basis of a clear and transparent system that we cannot complain about later. I do not agree with the disturbance of public development and church renovations in recent years, as they are also important in the life of a Hungarian rural settlement. I am sure that the development of the countryside in Hungary will be an important topic for the next period. In Hungary, we must make a clear effort to add as much resources as possible from home, since we can no longer count on EU funds. So I trust that the performance of the economy, which, as you can see, has been moving strongly in a rising direction in recent years, will continue to improve. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-22-266	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity.
u2017-05-22-267	Thank you very much for the floor. The idea was to ask how many representatives of Budapest there are here, but you don't even have to ask them to raise their hands, because it's easy to count. Two. Secretary of State, allow me to respond briefly to your last suggestion. It was just Mr Rétvári, State Secretary, who, in his last speech, described a division of the capital region and to whom he referred earlier, it was not my place to protect them, but their intention was to bring up common solutions rather than this division. I said, I listened to the whole debate, and it was Mr Retvári, Secretary of State, who spoke out and who showed opposition. What I am talking about is, most of all, educational and cultural issues leading to the rise of society and the economy in the countryside, because I believe that the path of individual and social ascension leads both through education and culture. This would require a completely different education policy than that pursued by the Fidesz-KDNP government. This is a complex issue, but from the point of view of rural Hungary, I would definitely like to mark some of the cornerstones of education policy. After 2010, nationalisation of schools was largely justified by greater attention to less disadvantaged areas, schools and students in a top-run system. First of all, they will have a better understanding of inequalities. Because the Fidesz-KDNP government has also admitted that rural institutions are in a worse position than the capitals. A student living in a small settlement has a much harder situation than a young person in the capital, because of many disadvantages, but one of them is the quality of education. [[19.50]] And it's not the teachers' fault, it's mostly the circumstances, the lack of material conditions, considering that there's much less supply to these institutions, the library is poorer, there's no language lab, there's less gymnasium, and we could list more of the things that led to these disadvantages. However, the constant reconciliation promised by Rose Hoffmann did not occur with the nationalisation. What happened was that the operating conditions of schools in a better position deteriorated, and those in worse situations remained where they were, or even got worse. But there really was a balance. But this did not happen by catching up with the higher levels of the lower ones, but by moving right down; the whole system went down. Different transfers have been made within the system, instead of switching resources, knowledge, expertise, help from outside the system. It's not the good ones that should be pulled down, it's the less good ones that should be raised to the right level. This could be the only decent way to balance. The May Other Politics says that 15-20 forints out of every hundred budget forints should be spent on education. The current budget before us shows that the government is currently spending HUF 10 forints for 40 for the previous year, and now this is falling to HUF 10 for 30 forints, i.e. 100 forints for the budget. In the debate on the budget, the Secretary of State, Peter Banai, could not say anything. These are facts, these numbers. This will not create a level playing field, a level playing field, if they try to redeploy within, and use withdrawals. Nationalisation thus did not have a positive impact, but only had negative consequences. In addition to the failure of the system and the collapse of the KLIK, everyone suffers from the mazes of centralised bureaucracy, nationalization was also an anti-democracy move. There is no democracy without institutions. Rural communities cannot exercise their rights or interfere with local education, and education is also a local issue. The strengthening of rural communities can be achieved through democracy, increasing their mobility, responsibility and opportunities. That is what we say and that schools that are reclaimed by the local authorities, given municipalities, will also receive them back with appropriate resources. We're on the side of high school. What Secretary of State László Palkovics has been saying several times recently, for example, regarding school buses, it has come to the conclusion that there are billions of forints on school buses, and this is obviously closely linked to the fact that the upper classes are being dismantled, the students of the upper classes are running out, and the result will be that they will have to be transported elsewhere by minibuses. But will those children return to that settlement? Or are we on our way to ravage the countryside? Do young people who study all over the world go back to growing up all over the world? It's not an education policy issue, it's much more than that. Staying with László Palkovics, he mentioned the high schools recently, and it is very clear that they are setting thresholds at the high schools as well, and they are setting the number from above with central admissions and the number of admissions available for this, by guaranteeing seats and removing the upper limit. It is also clear that it is becoming increasingly difficult to access higher education institutions from vocational schools, former secondary schools, so by reducing the number of high school frameworks, they are cutting off the path to higher education in practice. They cut down, narrow down the doors to higher education. Congressman Bányai asks who's going to install a car. Well, there's obviously a lot of answers to that question. It is very clear from a very recent report published today that Hungary is going to be the biggest loser of robotisation. We will be among the world's five largest losers, alongside the Far Eastern countries Hungary, because it is based on this, our economy is based on exports, such as car repair, and this will suffer huge losses. You know as well as I do, Congressman, that it is becoming less and less possible for a country mechanic to reach into the car, including the one in the capital, because they are practically making cars that, like other consumer products, are being thrown out if it does not work. That's where this world's moving. I'd like to say a few words about colleges, country colleges. These colleges are not just educational institutions, they are the centre and engines of local society, local culture and local economy in a small settlement. This is where innovation starts when innovation starts. So basically, these rural colleges, which are falling apart, are weakened, and are divided into one of the major institutions, major urban or capital institutions, let's just think about the transformation of agricultural education: if the news is true, the agricultural branches will be integrated into a capital centre. All of this shows that, in addition to the issue of education, the whole rural society is in very serious trouble, as opportunities are being lost by, for example, the decline of higher education in rural areas. The issue of culture is closely linked to education. I would like to share a few more thoughts about this with you. Fortunately, the government has recently begun to take over what the May Other has long mentioned in Politics, the objective of ensuring access to cultural values and participation in cultural value creation for all. We always say and have said this before that we consider this objective to be very important, since Hungary's fallout in this area is extraordinary. Millions of people do not have access to basic cultural goods, and rural Hungary is indeed the most disadvantaged in this regard. Culture strengthens communities, is the foundation of our national solidarity, and culture is the fourth pillar of sustainability. If we want a strong countryside, rural cultural services must also be strengthened. Finally, I would like to say a few more words about young people. Unfortunately, rural Hungary is depopulation; not only because thousands of young people move abroad every month, because they cannot find their calculations at home, but because this process remains permanent, and Hungary will thus be a country without grandchildren. This is a parallel trend for young people to move to larger cities, because opportunities in their homeland are shrinking. This negative process can be stopped with quality education, strengthening rural colleges, creating jobs, helping to become entrepreneurs, targeted housing policies, family support programmes for all. This can be alleviated and even stopped. Some of the programs have been mentioned today among the questions, the,, Come home, young! , which brought only 105 young people home, or the, do your business at home, young man! In a year and a half, none of the young people have ever been supported; or the chance program, which is one magnitude larger. While at the very first time, the. Come home, young!--there was only one hundred million programs, the, do your business at home, young man! It's already a billion-dollar program. This is obviously a more serious amount, but still very little, a very small amount, can be seen from the whole budget. So it would be very important to change all of this, that the amount, just like these few billion, I mentioned earlier, is in relation to the way that Lőrinc Mészáros is growing and getting rich - Strokeman Number One. Or as the cost of the water vb increases: in ten weeks, it has increased as much as I have talked about the amount of these three programs, which are spent on young people in total. There'd be a source for that, but there's a lack of intent, that's what we can see. Rural and rural education, strengthening rural culture and keeping young people in place would be one of the most important tasks. Please believe me, and please act accordingly. Thank you for your attention. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2017-05-22-268	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös for a two-minute comment.
u2017-05-22-269	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would like to say to Mr Secretary of State Tasó that I would not be so proud of that kind of consolidation, the local government loan consolidation, because since then they have nothing to do with it. So in Hungarian, they took everything. Now the mayor has the maximum opportunity to start the public worker on the left or on the right. [[20.00]] I wouldn't be so proud of that, especially in this debate, because they have a lot of work to do. I'm sorry my two fellow Members left. I would say to János Bencsik that what he said about this good initiative strengthens exactly what my fellow Member Bellozó said, that much, much more public engagement is needed to carry on this type of initiative, because it does work, and there are many such good examples, but since there is no organization behind it, it usually operates either in a very micro-region or it dies, because this should be made much wider. The airport in Debrecen was mentioned here. If we hadn't prevented the sale of a 46-acre area in the great land sales zeal, that would have been interesting, because they wanted to sell developmental areas, but my fellow Member probably knows that. The other thing I wanted to respond to is the Benetton. In fact, Benetton didn't just start his business, but in our time he could only buy a company, he did it in Gogánfa, and then he destroyed it, took the cows, stopped all activities, he only collected rents at some level. But they couldn't buy land until after you announced it, Mr. Secretary, that you had to sell the state land so it wouldn't fall into foreign hands. Now, this is the biggest problem of this period of time that they have tried to part with the only active rural development instrument, fortunately they have failed. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-22-270	Thank you. We will now return to the list of speakers that have been announced and give the floor first to Mr Dénes Galambos.
u2017-05-22-271	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. In my comment, I wanted to focus on basically two areas, but this is now expanding some areas. The subject itself, which can give a Member a pretty big picture, gives an opportunity to talk about practices that may be good and good to follow, or at least can serve as a debate. In the first part of my speech, I would like to talk about what we have not yet talked about in the framework of the steps needed to raise the economy and society in the countryside - I have already been involved, and I have also mentioned, in the context of the rural development programme, Mr State Secretary, when he was still in the room, but the main person responsible for this is not really the operational programme for rural development - so what I would like to say first of all is the question of broadband network development, internet development. I would like to make a preliminary reference to the super-fast internet programme, which was decided by the government in 2014, two years before the EU's 2020 deadline, until the end of 2018, for all households, businesses and public institutions in Hungary that require it to make available the internet with a bandwidth of at least 30 megabit/seconds. The aim of the program is to ensure that all of Hungary's physical activities, which we call a request place, are able to complete the 30 megabit/second broadband internet coverage by the end of 2018. Network development contributes to improving access to e-services, increasing Hungary's competitiveness, thereby improving the quality of life of the population. We all know from experience - and here I refer back to what has been said in the rural development programme - that areas where electricity has hardly been installed, but fortunately, are obviously also important for catching up. The farm program is therefore a welcome thing. If my fellow Member, Mr Font, was here now, he would obviously nod to him. As a county of Bács-Kiskun - Kunszentmiklós and his region - I know the flourishing world that was once manifested in farm life; of course, it was not the Internet at the time. But now, I think that this is also a necessary service for those who want to live there on a life-time basis, and believe me, there are more and more people who live there on a life-style basis, and not only are they using these properties as a peasant wellness, it is important for those who have access to the services. I think that this is the main direction, not the farmhouses, of course the Internet access to farmland, but rural network development, which is also important because in the area of electronic administration, not only in tax procedures, but also in the purchase and request of different permits, the use of the internet is very important, and the use of broadband internet is because the customer gates that they need to reach obviously save time and energy, not to mention the cost. In the course of the developments, network coverage in Hungary was surveyed, and the number of addresses not covered by broadband internet was nearly 900 thousand out of 3 million 700 thousand addresses in Hungary. I think that the efforts to cover the settlements represent 2350 settlements in the first round, with 60 billion forints of EU and domestic funding the government supports these goals, including improvements that already have a signed grant contract, such as Kiskunhalas, Tisavasvári, Gárdony, Zirc. The total cost of the projects is nearly HUF 65 billion, some HUF 45 billion in non-refundable and HUF 4.6 billion refundable. What is still related to this, which also reduces the burden on citizens - I said about the electronic administration - is the legislative amendment package on legal accessibility, which is managed by the competent secretary of state of the Prime Minister's Office. This is accompanied by tax exemptions such as the five-year exemption from the obligation to pay public utility taxes for access networks with a minimum bandwidth of 100 megabits/seconds, and the VAT rate will decrease from 17 to 18 and from 18 to 5 per cent. I believe that these developments will in any case form the basis for the participation of the local population in communication. The other subject I wanted to address is the integration of cooperative credit institutions. The reason why I do not want to get involved in this is because as a lead speaker, I have explained this subject in T/15375. On the basis of a legislative proposal, we have since passed the general debate, the detailed debate awaits this bill. I continue to believe that the integration of the savings cooperative, with the exception of the political overtones with which I disagree, will allow for the size of the savings cooperative network which will produce size-efficient sizes. Many say that there is a forced integration of savings cooperatives. This is not the direction of the legislation, nor is the amendment itself intended to do so. The 12 large institutions that will include savings cooperatives through integration, asset efficiency, plant size, optimization of IT systems are the basis for these savings cooperatives to become banks in the countryside. One part of my rural constituency is Dunaújváros and the other eight settlements represent almost the same size. In rural savings cooperative areas, especially in the 4th constituency of Fejér County, the question arose that the problem was not who the owner was, but that it was important to have those people who had the trust, because he had been running it for ten years, five years, eight years, and I think that this is a significant confidence factor, and that the rural people would like to continue to live with it, because the experience is that the financial institutions whose names I do not now say are the larger ones simply not willing to open up in the settlements. I am moving quickly to the part of my comment on what we have not talked about today, a non-negligible element of rural development, the Leader programmes. In my constituency - together with my fellow Member - which embodies a Leader LAG working group, it is also an important sum of HUF 342 million, 18 settlements and rural people living there need to reach for every penny. These people keep these savings, which will be necessary for the implementation of their programmes, in a savings cooperative, and in many cases the funds under Leader programmes are managed by these savings cooperatives. Let us not underestimate the importance of this either, nor that if 18 municipalities can achieve 5-8 million rural development developments per application, it is very important, and I did not mean the Tokaj Minikilátó, of course. We have very different ideas and ideas that we would like to implement from this programme. [[20.10]] I would like to give a very important, quick and good example, as already set by State Secretary László Tasó: a 100 billion-dollar road development programme. These synergies have been created in Fejér County by the Danube Bridge, which does not separate us, but connects us, for example, a gift that we have experienced with my fellow Member Sándor Font and Varga in recent days, and the other Secretary of State, Mr Homolya, could tell us about this. We can put together one of the major projects of rural development in Central Hungary if these settlements and regions work together, and this is: linking three motorways from Kecskemét to Lepsény and Enying, giving excellent opportunities to the regions, the settlements and the industrial activities there and the regions from Kecskemét to Lake Balaton. I would also like to say that I would like to mention the programme of modern cities for a moment, because, for example, with regard to Dunaújváros, we have implemented this excellent word, I will use it once again - let me give you an example from the programme "Modern Cities" - that the development of four-digit trips from 4 billion forints to the TOP has been converted to solve the renovation of roads where people go to work in Dunaújváros, the traditional major industry and the new industrial areas. This is an excellent example of rural cooperation, and I think it would be good to hear many such examples in the near future. Here I wanted to conclude with this example, and by saying that, in view of both segments of the city, the countryside and the village, I did not even mention agriculture, although a large part of my constituency is an agricultural area - it is well harmonised, only appropriate programmes, people and dedication are necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-22-272	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman László Teleki.
u2017-05-22-273	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Perhaps this debate should not have taken place here in Budapest, in the Parliament, but in the countryside. There used to be part-country meetings, and it would have been very important, let's say, to take it to the country and see what the problem is in the real world. It is safe to say that, in the current situation, the countryside is lost, and the rural social difference that appears at the moment between the various social groups characterizes the policy of governance. It can be said that the break-off is everyday and typical at the moment among the social layers, and the poorer have become even poorer in the last seven years, so it is safe to say. When they talk about family tax incentives, who can't take advantage of family tax benefits? The poorest, those who are employed or dependent on social assistance. Therefore, they do not give any opportunity to break out in the countryside by people who need to be able to get into a different social situation. Only one part of it is its employment leg, and if we are not only talking about poverty, but we are talking about, let us say, the group of people that I can represent very often thanks to the Hungarian Socialist Party, about Gypsyism in Hungary, then they cannot say that Gypsies in Hungary were not active in the countryside when they could, let us say, before the regime change. Not crying back at the change of regime, but then in agriculture, in the theaters, Roma people were able to work there actively, and they were able to make a living on wages and salaries. After the change of regime, these people became land runners because they received nothing from privatisation or from land distribution. The only thing they have received is: between 89 and 94, so in nearly four and a half years 60% of the Roma in Hungary lost their jobs, and mainly in the countryside, I would like to emphasise it. This has never been returned, there is no confirmation in any KSH data that they may have been able to regain their jobs through rural policy. Therefore, the government should do everything in its power to try to provide rural people with opportunities to ensure the maintenance of the family through employment, but we do not see this, and not only because, at the moment, the largest employers in Hungary are the municipalities and the small self-governments who are already bleeding out, because they have no money to fund anything, if the state is dribbling something, they get it. This is also the case with public employment: if they receive a source, they can employ some people; depending on how close they are to Fidesz, it depends on how many public employees they can keep. Therefore, this would also require responsible work and policy, not to determine who is in what political position, but to determine whether the work we call public employment is necessary. This is not the case in Hungary today, unfortunately, but this is also a political hand, so they pass the responsibility on to the municipalities when they cannot provide jobs. I've always said there's nothing wrong with being in public employment, there's a problem if it's an employment trap that you can't get out of. Therefore, I would consider it very important that the vocational training that we are now seeing should change; change because if there is no vocational training that provides opportunities for rural people, there is no breakout point and there is only one thing left: they will be in public employment. I would also very much like to underline that there are adult education centres that operate in such a way that they do not give adult people the opportunity to be trained as skilled workers, to provide retraining. When will those on the government try to repair vocational training, especially adult training, so that they can see that they can train professionals over and over again? They can't do this today, because they're on to one thing, and it's good for you, because they know how to cosmetics statistics: they can get the public employees into the KSH data, and everything's fine from then on. It is not okay because you have abandoned the possibility of vocational training, and in particular adult training is not considered important. I have already told you how they were in agriculture before the change of regime, but it is safe to say that there was a programme that was funded by you: it was at the Public Foundation for the Gypsies in Hungary, and they were able to finance farm in the country. These home farming opportunities were crossed over by you in a feather stroke in 2015. The problem with this is that they don't even give us the possibility that if they can't get a job, if they can't get a job in public, they can produce at least enough with the knowledge they have acquired in different activities and in different agricultural works to sustain themselves. They didn't even give me this option, because they took that money, and I don't see a single foot of the source that they might have returned it to the 2018 budget, and they haven't seen it in 2017. I'm asking why it was removed. Why don't you give us an opportunity for those rural people who can be farmd on the farm to be there? Similarly, it is true for ancient farmers. Today we did not discuss the situation with ancient farmers. It is no longer a ring of farmers, and it is not because they establish rules that do not allow them. I know that very well, because I come from an area where this type of farming was the only one in the region of Nagykanizsa, and now we do not have this prehistoric opportunity. I mean, I have it, but they've imposed a tax that people who have lived with it couldn't live with. The shortcomings in agriculture could therefore be classified. [[20.20]] I would like to return to the Roma community with one thought. He played a very important role in agriculture, but animal farming was always close to the Roma in Hungary. They can't do animal farming today, and that's a big problem. There are two things to say about this. One is that they have no option, because the lands have been fully privatized, so they do not get to land where animals can be kept. Secondly, it is also a big problem that they have been completely excluded from privatisation, as I mentioned. I will not say this again, because I had to say it again at livestock farming: that is why it cannot be that we are dealing with a certain part of agriculture. To sum up, one thing is certain: the poor man is the biggest loser in the countryside, and he continues to suffer from extreme poverty in Szabolcs, Borsod, South Baranya or Somogy. It's still there. And the people do not see - that is why I said that part-country meetings should have been held on this political agenda - because if we had been able to discuss them in the countryside, many people might have said what the problem was in the countryside much better and more succulently. 'Cause believe me, it's worth listening to the rural people, what kind of problem they have, then they really see the congressman. This does not mean that we do not go among the people and that you, pro-government representatives, do not go, but I think you do not see the reality of what is going on in the countryside, because poverty is not wanted to be eradicated. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-22-274	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2017-05-22-275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I'll answer very briefly. My fellow Member, Mr László Teleki, has raised a problem that we need to discuss and I must speak to him. My dear fellow Member, he mentioned the difficulties or the badly changed way in taxation of farmers. Let me tell you, you don't even have to make a 600,000 forint return. Up to HUF 6 million, 10 percent of it is taxable and 6 percent of it has to be paid as a tax. Please tell me what form of farming, how and what form of tax returns are, which is more favourable than that! ? I can't think of anything better than primal farming in terms of taxation. Moreover, even if the wife, the big child, is separated among the family members, this can be the best and most favorable story for a small farm to pursue some additional activity. My dear fellow Member, it was necessary to clarify this because there is no more favourable tax condition in Hungary today. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-05-22-276	Thank you. We will now return to the speakers who have been announced. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai.
u2017-05-22-277	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The debate is positive, compared to what I expected, and I feel that every Member of Parliament who has stayed here understands the development of the countryside. It's like football, almost everyone knows how to do it. But in addition to the title of today's debate on the need for economic and social uplifting of the Hungarian countryside, we all have a lack of response to this issue. There's a lot of things we couldn't add to that, but I'm telling you, I'm falling for that mistake, too. There is one thing I would like not to impose, however, only Gábor Bellozó had a comment on the previous system. He said with a little tears in his eyes how good it was for rural development and for the countryside. My grandfather would remember that era differently if he were still alive. He died ten years ago, but he lost everything in that rural development. When he came home from detention as a young man, everything was taken from him. He saw this rural development differently. [[Gábor István Bellozó: That's not what I was talking about.]] I'm just telling you what I think. After 43 years, he saw that the system wasn't so bad. [[Zoltán Grimlock: The system wasn't so bad.]] I'm sorry, I was talking about my grandfather seeing differently, if he were still alive, telling him that he had a very bad rural development experience in that system. But by the way, we might agree on most things. The most difficult question, among many other things, is, of course, what road network can be used to reach the rural areas of Hungary, or what opportunities for transport have been, gone or perhaps will be in the next period. I'd like to say a few words about that. Stunning numbers can be seen, read, or experience when travelling. There are 31,805 kilometers of public treatment. Let this figure be quite large, but next to it there are 167,500 kilometers of municipal roads. The average age of these two is 35-40 years. These two together almost five times round the equator. Not to mention the fact that, as my colleague Sallai R. Benedict said, in this busy road system, there is a need for an immediate renovation of 15,000 kilometres. But again, those roads haven't had any major renovations or repairs in about 40 years. In addition, there is a 7600 km long railway network system in Hungary, which has started its reconstruction in the last seven to eight and ten years, where there is still room to do. In addition to the suburbs, I encourage everyone to have more railway renovations and upgrades in rural areas. There are already signs of this in many places, thanks to Stadler, there are brand new vehicles, wagons and trains in rural areas where the track is suitable. We also know that our motorway network started to develop very well in the early 2000s, and now there are 1804 kilometres of motorways and motorways. But this also indicates that we have spent a lot of money to build a lot of roads for transit in Hungary, which is good for us, but very little resources have been available to renovate the road network in Hungary. Was there a breakthrough, is that enough? Everyone always says that the source for repairing hull defects is limited, but I respectfully indicate that Hungary will be renovated 1100 kilometers of roads in Hungary, thanks to domestic sources, but now more so than ever, thanks to domestic sources. This is not enough, of course, because if we move at this rate, the 15 thousand kilometers of road network that requires immediate renovation will be completed in 10-14 years, and there may be a road section that will no longer be considered road. But this is also a significant step in one year to the construction of 50 kilometers of motorways, 200 kilometers of main road renovation, 1100 kilometers of side road renovation - a total of 1350 kilometers - requires very significant resources from the budget. That's 150 billion forints this year. If everyone wanted to achieve immediate results, the following year or years would have to spend 1500 billion a year on road development to at least renovate the worst roads. Only budget opportunities and fantasy limit who wants to build a road at what speed. But for your information, this is the extent of the road development package that we have ahead of us this year and will be next year, not yet. It is a very prominent decision, which many cities with county rights, including Békéscsaba, Salgótarján and Eger will be pleased to see when we get to them at the end of the construction of the motorways, as our country will start building a thousand kilometres of motorways by 2022, and more than half of them are already domestic budgetary resources, as the European Union has not supported the construction of roads, especially the lower road renovation programmes, they said we had enough. However, the construction of motorways was also lagging behind between 2006-13, whereas in Romania a large amount of EU funding was involved in the construction of motorways. We did not have this, and the PPP construction was the main source of construction, after we still pay 240 billion a year to the present day for the repayment of PPP constructions. With regard to roads, I should say that the level of bicycle road construction - which now support not only entertainment, tourism, but also work in many cases - has increased enormously. If we considered that bicycle paths could have been built next to every road, then we would have to have at least 35,000 kilometres of bicycle roads. But the fact that the country has been able to build a bicycle road for more than 1,200 kilometers in five years is outstanding. The pace of this may need to be stepped up, but we will also need to invest very hard domestic budget money on the source side, as the European Community will no longer support this. [[20.30]] What I would like to say here, as a matter of note, is not the debate I might want to intensify or argue with everyone at all costs, the notion of job creation has appeared on many's part in the debate and what it has to say. This is a very good weapon for all politicians, revolver, if you think the other side is not doing well. Please, the decision on job creation by an entrepreneur to employ 1, 10, 100 or 200 people, or even thousands of people, does not go from one day to the next, can not be forced out. Even with the tax system, you can't really force it. I know a lot of cases from my own experience, from my former representation, and I see them in the days. A serious company, I could name names, but maybe one day I'll be able to, if I have to give them an ad on what they've decided, let's say, about hiring 350 people and spending 13 billion forints to build a processor. After all, the development of the food industry is one of the prerequisites for survival in the countryside. Well, the contractor decided in 13 that he would think about it, and it would end in 18, so it would take more than five years for the investment to be completed, and someone could turn on the green button, the trigger button, to start cutting off the first animal. It takes a great deal of time for an entrepreneur to collect the funds, get the funds, negotiate the loans with the banks, and also have to deal with the construction. So the fact that we are calling for jobs in every government cycle is right, but we need to know that this is not a child's play. I've seen it myself. We have a business in the constituency, I don't want to make any reference to the settlement, where I come from, but since everyone has said it, it's a part of the settlement between Kiskunhalas and Jánoshalma. There is a Hungarian tractor manufacturing company, a family business that wants to start and restart. Seven years ago, he started planning to start the re-production of the Dutra tractor in Hungary. This year is finally going to be completed with all the permits to get started. But it will be an unforgiving job for them to be able to sell the modern construction of this old Hungarian tractor with Hungarian technology, Hungarian know-how and knowledge. After all, competitors are extremely strong, and many machines arrive from the eastern sector, the eastern countries, Asia and Belarus, which may be cheaper than Hungarian machines. So, it's incredibly difficult to set up a company that looks serious, a tractor-producing agricultural plant, a plant that produces agricultural machinery. We need it, everyone knows that we need the machines, especially the Hungarian machine, prepared from the Hungarian labour force, it could probably be a successful project, but it will also be relentlessly difficult to get hundreds of people to come back to work, not only because we have few compatriots who want to work, but it is simply an unmerciless job to get to a new job. The development of the food industry has been discussed. Yeah, let's not forget that Hungary practically gave up its food industry almost completely after the 2004 accession, in a way, which was still in smaller rural areas. Since then, everyone has invested their money in crop production, and the result is the great estates that have been created in the country. We made a huge mistake when we let the Hungarian food industry be liquidated for all kinds of support. Just an example that may be confirmed by Congressman Haughty. When there was a diversification programme after 2004, we received HUF 21 billion of support from the European Community in order to eliminate the sugar industry in order to pay farmers and British American companies. Now, restarting the sugar factory in Kaba will cost 100 billion forints if someone ever does that. So for 21 billion we gave away the golden egg of the Hungarian agriculture, and the farmers took it as a success, because they received support once and then it was almost over. The other is that the confederations are discussed. I've been a member of three confederations, I've never been a leader in any of them that's been destroyed in front of me, and they stole our money. It is very difficult to get Hungarian people to join forces today, because this system is cracking in every vein. I was just reading a very old paper that, even in the.30s, at the beginning of the last century, and even a century earlier, everyone went to Denmark to learn how to use Danish methods. We still go to Denmark, and we have not been able to achieve anything from it. We just can't do it. Either I don't know what's going on with us Hungarians, but we're just failing the alliance, and we're being held there by force or otherwise. How to organize this from above or from below is very difficult. I can give examples of how difficult it is to create a classic European quality noodles, producer-selling cooperatives. You are right, Mr Sneider, and I am sorry, Mr Vice-President, that you are bringing forward tourism developments, including thermal tourism. This is a huge opportunity for Hungary. Only at this moment, the structure was formed, when it was the first development period, it had a lot of resources for thermal tourism and the development of spas and baths. This is no longer permitted by the European Community, but if something really needs to be developed in tourism, this can be done. But only then, as you said, without marketing, these improvements are absolutely useless, not to mention, of course, the development of accommodations and other developments. There is a lot to do, but let's not forget that Hungarian history and culture will attract a lot of foreigners to Hungary, not just the baths. Yeah, they're right. There's a big future in this, too. That's what I believe, and I've seen many, many positive results. I'd like to tell you something interesting to see where we've come from in Bács-Kiskun, for example. In 2003, there were still 289 thousand producers, and of course there were many farmers who were mentioned here by Congressman Teleki. There were bigger and smaller farms. But that was down to 29,800 by the beginning of 2010. The room should've been silenced, it should've been quiet. The number of farmers fell to 10 in Bács-Kiskun in less than seven years. This is not what I expected from the accession of the European Union to happen. That's what happened, 85-90 percent of the producers disappeared, and that's brutal. Exodus also came to mind, hurtfully, and with more serious arguments on someone's part about why. After May 2004, Bácsbokod belonged to my constituency, that year 56 young and older compatriots went out because they could go to Western Europe and leave the village. The following year, that's about how many people left. This is what many people expected from EU accession that free movement of labour should take place and that they wanted to go. They went, especially from German-speaking lands. By the way, migration from the poor regions of the country has always existed in Western Europe. In our area, I would just like to say that in 1990 there were 48,000 voters in our then constituency, in the 10th constituency of Bács-Kiskun, in the district of Bácsalmás. That went down to 33,000 by 2006. So it's been brutal since the change of regime. This can be applied in all directions, but I don't think we could avoid that. But we're still better off than the Romanians or the Poles. And I'd like to close the line, thank you for your attention slowly. I would like to tell Congressman Teleki that if he were here, he will be told that I would very much like to wait for Kiskunhalas. A very serious catch-up programme has been launched by the local government, in the local vocational training centre, in the centre a very serious number of Roma, Gypsy girls and boys are studying and gaining qualifications. Remember, today two professions can be acquired by a young Hungarian under 18 in the same or another school after his first acquisition, so to speak, for free, under daytime conditions, not in adult education. So the gates are open. I think the VET system is better than before. We Hungarians made a mistake in total when, in the year 2003, the Minister of Education was called Bálint Magyar, who broke up the Hungarian vocational training system at the time. This is a prehistoric sin of Hungarian politics. I thank you for your attention, believe me, the debate was not pointless. Thank you for listening to me with patience. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-22-278	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Sebestyén Cutter. [[20.40]]
u2017-05-22-279	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First, I would like to start with a quick response to what my fellow Member, János Bencsik, said. The fact is that after the collapse of the socialist industry, Tatabánya was saved through improvements. Most of the people on the streets were able to get settled. Another issue is that these developments and these investments were often motivated not by the well-being of the people in the region, but by other individual financial interests, starting with where the industrial park was located, continuing from who could settle in that industrial park. But it's a different story, it's worth a mass. As an example, János Bencsik mentioned the situation of the hospital. Let's not talk about big improvements at the hospital in Tatabánya. It was a very big development that the new pavilion was built, but a number of small rural hospitals were closed in the county, so the only hospital remained, in fact, if you look at the facts, the Tatabánya hospital in Komárom-Esztergom County, not to mention the developments in health care in the county. Hospital leaders told us last year during the real national consultation that there were meaningless investments, that there were very often untimely instruments, ageless classes and unconventional rooms in the Tatabánya hospital, and at the same time it also has a well-equipped lab, but in addition to the development of health care, a new, completely unnecessary lab was created in the county with EU money instead of, say, renovating or repairing one of its departments for the Tatabánya hospital. Of course, not everything depends on material things. A lot depends on the approach, and a lot depends on the methodology even in a hospital. It is possible to talk about an advanced Tatabánya hospital, but we know very well that it is lacking in medicine, and it is not only due to the proximity of the Western border that it is lacking in medicine, but it is very often possible to encounter medieval methodology in certain classes. One outstanding example of this is obstetrics, where they were stuck in the 1950s and 1960s. We're light years away from the baby-mama-friend obstetrics category. In view of this, mothers wishing to give birth in the county have no other option: they either go to Tatabánya, or if a baby-mama friend wants to have their baby in a hospital, they must travel at least 70 kilometers from Tata or Tatabánya to benefit from such a service. Unfortunately, this is not only the case in Komárom-Esztergom county, but there are a lot of rural areas, so that if parents want the child to be born in the most optimal conditions, they do have to travel a lot. It doesn't matter what influences the child and the mother are affected by during birth. It does affect the child's later personality development. Speaking of children, we're in early childhood, let's look at the position of the women in charge. Rather, I would say that we should look at a few examples of what the government is saying, what is against what the government is promising, and what is against what the government is saying is that it will solve this problem. One of these problems, which broke out a few months ago, is the position of the women in charge of health care, that women working in the primary care area earn an average of HUF 80,000 less than their colleagues in health care. It is not surprising that existing statuses, the status of existing districts, cannot be replenished. You can't fill these places with such a wage situation. The next budget includes the wage development presented by the government, but let's just say it's a 33 thousand forints wage development. If you look at this, you will still have the same qualifications, the same experience and otherwise much more difficult job, and you will earn HUF 80,000 less than your colleague working in the hospital after the big announced wage development. And if we look at the important tasks of the defence network, we can see that if the defence network doesn't work properly, we can forget the development of the countryside as it is. One of their important tasks has been to identify shortcomings, disability or underdues that require early development in early childhood. If a protective woman can't do this because in the given area, let's say, she doesn't, and so and so, they always replace the tasks there, then this examination may be late, this examination is not in time, or this investigation will not be done. Then the early development of that child cannot be completed. If the early development of a small child is performed in a timely and professional manner, then in many cases a child who could have been pre-edestated to become a sniper for his schooling, early schooling, will not be a sniper, but can develop in the same way together with his healthy and healthy peers, and with his companions who have started at no disadvantage at all. If this doesn't happen, she'll be a sniper or a child with other malformations, with whom there will be a lot more problems at school, whose studies can't be completed so effectively, who doesn't have an envelopable degree as if this had happened. Thus, the development that could be achieved through education is not realized in the countryside. This was just a simple example of why it is important to look at certain tasks from a different perspective and take into account not short-term, but long-term goals when financing them or even developing them. The same is also the child welfare or social care system. I don't want to talk about the wage situation, because many people have spoken before me, and I've talked about it a lot too. But let's see where we stand from the point of view of the tasks. Taking the same aspects into account at a higher school age or in kindergarten, school social work would be very important. School social work is mainly in areas that have already been mentioned by many, South Transdanubia, North-East Hungary, where we do not find segregations within a settlement, but we are already meeting settlements that have become a complete segregation. The law, the social law, only does not provide a norm for child welfare services, and in particular the child welfare services or centres located in these areas, but child welfare centres can apply for these tasks. If they apply and win the tenders, they can do so in their own area. I don't think that's how this was supposed to be done. This development, as well as other developments in the child welfare or social sector, should not have been spared. Let's take a look at this region, one of the counties of the northeast-Hungarian region, such as Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, where there are family ties, so I have a pretty good view of the county. I think that the stadium should not have been built in Mezőkövesd, it should not be built in Diósgyőr, but in the county's child welfare service, protective service, school social work, other catching-up programs should have been supported and developed with the many billion forints to allow a dwindling area to catch up and integrate and reintegrate children or even older adults. I think this would be a more important task and a more important goal than having a modern stadium in Mezőkövesden or a modern stadium in Nuosgyőr, because these modern stadiums, if they continue like this, will be pissed with grass, because there will be no such person in that area as two hands or an intellectual person who can maintain the operation of these institutions. I'd like to say two more sentences quickly about something. You can talk about nice statistics about how employment has increased, just look at how much of this is us. Most of it is the community service program, which does not mean an exit, no prospect for any person, because of that 50-60 thousand forints, I don't think you can really make a living. The reason why employment has increased so much in the declining regions and unemployment has decreased so little is because these are areas where people who would otherwise have the ability, the strength and the potential to do so are not able to find employment in the open labour market as a result of the lack of necessary improvements. They have no choice but to participate in the public works programme. This is why there is a big difference between the labour market situation in East Hungary and Western Hungary and the number of people involved in public work. Thus, we should not be surprised that these people can eventually fall out of the open labour market, or even engage in conflicts between parts of the country, to move to Western Hungary, very often to the place of workers who migrate from there to the West, and in many cases also cause problems in certain areas, because people with very different cultures and very different contexts and socialized in very different settings will suddenly become neighbours, neighbours, and, in very cases, in the cohabitation in Győr-Moson-Sopron county or even in certain areas of Vas county, this may cause problems. I think that everyone should solve it locally, in their own place of birth, with economic developments supported by either state or EU funds, or with the proper development of services, so that everyone can thrive where they were born, everyone can thrive where their ancestors lived, if that is what they want, and if they see the purpose of their life in this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[20.50]]
u2017-05-22-280	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Varga.
u2017-05-22-281	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to join the final sentence of Editing Sebestyén: everyone can prosper where they were born, where their ancestors lived. [[Dr. István Apáti: What's wrong with that?]] If I look back at my family history, obviously I won't bore you with it, but I still live where my ancestors have lived for generations. In 1998-99, when the first civilian government was Existant and governed, I had the confidence to buy an outskirts ruiny property, but a property so ruined that I hadn't even had the roof, and since 99 I've been building this building, building it, and now I can say that I can apply to you as a farm dweller and talk about what a rural development is like. As I have seen it, a lot of people think about rural development in many ways, some talk about infrastructure, how advanced it is, about how and how the social sector needs to be developed, about other developments, health and education that need to be carried out in order for an area to develop economically. In 2002, a community trusted me to be mayor, and even though I don't see a mayor or a man who has been mayor in recent years... [[Dr. István Nagy on signal:]] - I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, I can see now, but I didn't put my glasses on, and I'd like to disperse some misconceptions. The first, let's say, should be about debt consolidation, how and how the municipalities have fled into it. In 2002, when I became mayor, the TEKI and CEDE system, established by the civilian government, was a task delegated to the county regional development council in disadvantaged areas, which he of course delegated to the small regions, and there in disadvantaged areas it was territorial equalization and the targeted decentralised fund. So here the city leaders were able to decide what resources were used for. Of course, socialist governments have slowly decommissioned this, saying that EU funds will come in 2004, which, of course, also came with pre-accession funds, Phare, SAPARD and AVOP programmes, during this period. Then later EU proposals appeared. It was only there that they forgot to say that these applications are not 100% supported, but if they are applying for a small settlement, they should be financed by him. The 70% or 80% or 90% grant was very non-existent between 50 and 70 [[Zoltán Grimlock: There were a hundred!]] or 75% of the funding. In this case, however, if he won the tender because he was post-financed, he graduated to a commercial bank when the interest rates were not in the range of 2-3-4 per cent, but were slightly higher. If the whole project went well and it was implemented, it was paid a year later. In a hundred million-dollar investment, let's say, in the case of a small settlement, there was immediately a lot of 10-12, several million forints, which did not make it economical. This is one of the reasons why, where appropriate, a rural municipality was indebted. Then, if this settlement was larger, the higher the debt was. Obviously, this lack of countryside, I think, has fundamentally influenced it, because who is the local manager who would have taken it upon himself to take on such debt. Basically, we didn't have to figure out here that we wouldn't develop the countryside, if the rural settlement didn't apply, it wouldn't even develop. I think that my fellow Member, who is now up as Vice-President, as Mr Vice-President has just said, was surprised to learn how good his echo is and how good it is to know that his fellow Member is dealing with rabbits. I mean, on my farm, I have two rabbits, four dogs and two such borrowed horses, of course the value of which does not appear in the constellation that it should be written in my tax return, but it is definitely part of the discussion here about rural development and other things. I come from the area of South Feyér County, where Gyula Illyés and László Németh, the two age-old geniuses quoted here in the ministerial expoze, were born, lived and created. The grandparents of Gyula Illyés are buried in Cece, and László Németh can be said to have the basic idea and basic idea of the numerous dramas of Szilásbalhason, or Mezősilason. Thus, TEKI, CEDE, which was liquidated by the Socialists, and the various EU funds are coming, the use of which cannot really be justified by the concept of territorial development that existed until 2013. And in fact, I would like to turn to what was at the heart of what I had to say, this is the operational programme for territorial and urban development, which contributes about HUF 1200 billion in development between 2014 and 20 to areas requiring the country to be caught up at European level. The less developed regions are the target areas here, and Budapest and Pest counties are excluded from this. The TOP supports the development of 18 counties and 22 cities with county rights. The TOP mission is to provide a framework for the planning and implementation of decentralised development of areas. The development directions for the two main strategic goals of the TOP are, on the one hand, economic recovery and raising employment levels, as well as the creation of a business-friendly and population-sustaining settlement, especially urban development. Based on the structure of the operational programmes, the counties in the TOP were able to design developments under five priorities. On the one hand, a regional economic environmental development to promote employment. The second priority was the development of a business-friendly, population-friendly settlement. The third is the transition to a low-carbon economy, particularly in urban areas. The fourth is the development of local community services and the strengthening of socio-economic cooperation. The fifth is the development of regional and local human resources, employment promotion and social cooperation. Based on the structure of the operational programme, county-righted cities can apply for support for the same measures within the framework of the TOP 6 priority framework, under the framework of the Modern Cities. On the basis of data from May 2017, nearly HUF 950 billion of funding was announced for the county budget of nearly HUF 800 billion. Of this, 322 billion forints have already been awarded, and there is a signed amount of HUF 96.7 billion. In this, I would like to report that on 2 June in the case of Fejér county, contracts will be concluded for some HUF 15 billion, and we will give 100% support to the priority applicants who participated in this. From the territory of the 5th constituency of Fejér county, 31 out of 35 settlements applied, 29 so far, it looks like it doesn't even look like it, but received a statement of support these days. I believe that this is the real territorial development, when one hundred percent of the settlements receive the source they have named, and they have been the initiators, as the Members before me have said, in fact, in connection with synergies between the settlements, in order to promote each other's development, they have formulated linked development opportunities and development goals. [[21.00]] I would also like to talk very briefly about this great initiative, which you have written a little cynical in Sebestyén Vágó, obviously aiming for stadium development, but I think that in the development of national public education infrastructure, if we look at it, we will deliver and build 24 student hotels in the coming period. I don't know if anyone has a problem with this, but I can only say that in my area, the school is built in two district centers, Dragonfly and Enying. That means we're handing it over to Dragonfly on June 30th. This is a development and an opportunity for disadvantaged areas that, I think, will fundamentally change the foundations of the population, whether cultural, social or health, in the coming period. In this region - and this region has not received such infrastructure investment for 40 years. We are waiting for the next program in which we would like to build a gymnasium and a sports hall, as due to its proximity to Székesfehérvár and Dunaújváros, there is no standard sports hall in Fejér county's 5th constituency. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I think that these infrastructural developments, which have started, which are linked to classroom building, gym building, are welcome, and that, from the point of view of rural development, they will basically start the development that people will remain there, that the intellectuals will not go away, that they will see perspective, and not least, within the TOP, economic development programmes and developments that will bind the local population. I wanted to say so much in the closing remarks, but in the meantime there was a change - with respect to Mr President - in waiting for the end, since the animals were now fed at home, so now I have time to wait for the end of this, it will be over in about an hour; I have already sent home to feed the animals in peace. By the way, they've already done both my children and my wife. Thank you so much for listening. [[Delight and applause. Zoltán Grimlock: I thought they were starting now!]]
u2017-05-22-282	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the warm welcome, and I also appreciate that such a beautiful Baroque phrase included sending home, feeding animals and welcoming me. [[Delight and applause.]] I really appreciate that. Now, let us continue with the speakers that have been announced: Congressman Sallai R. Benedict, representative of the LMP, please.
u2017-05-22-283	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I also welcome you with respect, and I welcome all other fellow Members with respect. I am pleased that Mr. Great Secretary of State is so persistently sitting with us for a pleasant afternoon. I'm sorry, I don't mean to imply your age, but I suppose you remember that when I was a kid, I had a lot of scythes, canvass, and the Nikolai joke; it came from the Soviet culture at the time. Now it looks like the country's headed in the direction that they might be making jokes again today. And then a buddy of mine recently told me that there was one of these Sashas who worked at the sewing machine factory for 30 years, and after 30 years, he was sewing with his hands at home, and they always asked me how it could be. He told me that no matter how I brought the parts home, he always turned into a machine gun. [[Defiance.]] And this buddy of mine mentioned that the other day, that you were the same with property policy. They always tell us that they're breaking down the estates now, and now we're taking the subsidies over 1,200 hectares, and yet it's always going to be a big estate policy. When you announce a reduction in the support of the estates, two weeks later, it turns out that Sándor Csányi received the most support, because Mohács received extra money for it. If you announce that you have now entered the small estate policy strategy, it will be revealed within a week that Lőrinc Mészáros bought 1000 hectares. So you are like this Vassya, that no matter how he brings you home, he will always be a machine gun; whatever you do, he will always become a great estate policy, and this is interesting, and I was glad that he stayed in, because this is one of the most interesting topics that Minister Zsolt Kis Miklós and our fellow Member Sándor Font mentioned, although these are simply the facts. The facts that, when Minister of State Mr.Zsolt Kis spoke that Hungary was the only one in Europe who took this step in order to withdraw funds in a degressive system, however, today the number of holdings over 100 hectares in Austria is much mentioned. In the Netherlands, let's say, 19, in Poland 21, in Ireland 24, in Finland 30. With one of the worst results, we are above 64 percent in the number of major estates. So what are we talking about? Mr. Zsolt Kis Miklós spoke of what results? This is terrible because you have repeatedly mentioned it, Minister Lazarus started today by mentioning the Austrian example that he does not understand what it is that makes a different picture and what Austria is doing for these villages. I have had the opportunity to tell the story of Burgenland here in Parliament once, where it received the same per capita support as Hungary, and practically Burgenland, which was around the province of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg in Austria, in 95, and the most backward, practically changed its fate from this source. By the end of the programme, by the time the Structural Funds were used, Burgenland became the richest of the poorest region in Austria, and now one in eight jobs was directly or indirectly dependent on European support. Here's the results. Businesses are constantly increasing their labour market demand by 1000 people per year. From 2007 to 13, economic performance has also increased by more than 10 percent in the period under the economic crisis. Each EU euro generated a 2.3-fold investment. All sources of support were used in the province. According to the incomes, Burgenland is now one of the most advanced Austrian provinces. What did you do differently? That's it, you have to look at it. The first thing he invested in was R &amp; D and innovation. This has ceased in Hungary. What's small is stolen by big companies who try to do something with some college instructors for pennies. It disappears, there is no innovation, there is no research and development in the field. Internationalisation of businesses was the second step, so that they could enter the international market. The third largest use of resources is education. In Hungary, when my colleague István Ikotity tells me his thoughts on education, my fellow Members from Bács-Kiskun County shout out that we do not need a mechanic? Yes, you can. Of course you should. But doesn't that have to be trained? No need to prepare for XXI. A hundredth century? Don't you have to create a chance? And this would all have jobs, space in rural areas, where there's still a population, but it's obvious if we shut one down, then there's not going to be anything. Tourism, and the last thing that could hurt the Fidesz, is the renewable energy sector they put money into. The resources of Fidesz-KDNP for rural development, if we look at them, there are infrastructure developments, which was also an example of the EU in order to develop rural areas: Portugal. There they put the vast majority of their structural funds into infrastructure development, and then the economy collapsed. While, let us say, an example known as the Irish miracle, where almost exclusively their resources were also invested in education, it was born as an Irish economic miracle. It's important to talk about it because obviously you just have to watch what you can do wrong. We're not looking for fault, we're just looking for a way to go if we're looking for a solution. And obviously one option is also the kind of industrial development that my fellow Member from Bánya spoke about by bringing the Dutra tractors to life. But why now? Since 2004, we have paid a lot of machine subsidies from the Structural Funds to John Deere and New Holland for all European manufacturers, while there are over 5 million hectares of land here without proper industrial development. So as long as we cannot create the industrial background for the cultivation of natural resources, the background to processing is clearly not expected to be meaningfully creating job-creating effects. I very much agreed with Mr István Nagy, State Secretary, when he said in his speech hours ago how much trouble there was in the country, they could not persuade people to keep pigs, but if they did, how the problem would appear; the peasant way of life ceased, but after 7 years of Fidesz governance, the question is not what the problems are, but what you have done about them. How could he have been treated? By what regulation does a neighbor who, say, is disturbed by the squealing of pigs report to his neighbors? Can't you change it now? They had all the means to change them. It is from these that we have to draw the conclusions on what action the government needs to take to ensure that this happens in substance. The peasant way of life has ceased - it has not ceased, it has been abolished. Think about it, Secretary of State, there are 2 million landowners and no 200 thousand farmers. But for the record, I'm asking you not to take it out later. Have you thought about what would happen if, let's say, subsidies could not be used for land leased? They'd say he's not getting paid. Then the person who owns it should either be sold or cultivated. [[21.10]] I'll give you one more idea - I'll tell you another ten when I have time, but this damn KDNP didn't give me the time, unfortunately, but if he hadn't spoken to him, he could have given it to me. Vice-President Sneider's construction programme for nursing homes was very interesting. I just wanted to say this so that it doesn't seem like that if we are actually having a professional debate, to draw your attention to my good fellow Members, that once God gives them the chance to govern, they should try to do so with this programme to ensure that the elderly are where they belong, among their families, among grandchildren and great-grandsons, rather than in the program of nursing homes. When the need for a nursing home arose, it was already a faulty community system, a sign of a broken country and broken families when the need for it increased. It must be created to keep communities and families together, and it is obviously worth talking about. I was very pleased to hear the speech by my fellow Member, Mr Balázs Simon, who, as a Member of Győr, said that his city manages from 50 billion - half the revenue from local business taxes and other local taxes - and how much the government adds. I sat back here and said, "Well, then, who's getting the idea of what's wrong with Hungarian rural development?" Well, this penny goes where you can find the forint! When we have released the tax from public money to a large factory, we have added public money to create these jobs, we have created a bad local tax regulation to keep all the money, and we are pushing billions of modern cities and structural funds to develop there, while leaving a multitude of villages and counties behind! I am very happy and proud of the fact that Győr and his region are that way, but do we have to talk about this on rural development debate day, how good is it to have 50 billion dollars in income? Well, thousands of villages don't have that kind of income! This is what needs to be considered, this is the policy issue that needs to be debated! I have a lot of questions and very little time, but whether it's a matter of land or property policy, what could be done; there's the earth traffic law - why don't we give pre-emptive rights to those who don't have land or have only 50 hectares of land? It could be done without further ado by regulation. Administrative system; creation of land-linked employment. Mr. Zsolt Kis, State Secretary, comes in and says that he lives in a settlement where he can live comfortably out of five hectares. And what do they do? They give the support to those who do not employ two people on a thousand hectares. Where's the consistency here? Why is it not tied to employment, then, so that it is mandatory to hire one person per 50 ha and the land belongs to the person who gives more work to people? So a lot of possibilities can be created. Let us discuss these opportunities to discuss these issues, how to create them, how to start a support programme to save the villages, when 600 villages will soon be depopulated in Hungary, how to create a scholarship programme for doctors and educators to want to live in these small regions. It is very important that our fellow Member János Bencsik drew attention to the possibility of community development, the strengthening of local identity, but without a livelihood and a safe background, it is unfortunately useless. In order for me to have a chance to close, I'll leave you 30 more seconds. I trust I can speak, and I look forward to the reactions. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-05-22-284	Thank you very much. Secretary of State István Nagy, on behalf of the government.
u2017-05-22-285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I promise you, very briefly, I just want to make one thing clear, because we get it a lot as an accusation. When they look at support policy and say funny, not funny, they're practically always gonna get the biggest ones. But for the sake of the truth, let us say that these great ones always show a downward trend, at least during our government. So it's going down nicely, gradually. The fact that Austria, Denmark, the Netherlands, classified the countries as having more intensive support for the smaller ones is not quite a good comparison. But if you look at it in a five or ten-year cycle, the big ones will grow there. So until the historical development of other countries, because they had no luck with socialism, but the sacrament of private property was always the first, and they were able to farm so, the concentration of property is increasing, and we are making an unconscious effort to reduce it. If you don't want to believe me, let me give you an example that I think will justify me. The Russians left Austria in 1955. Until then, we had Iron County, Sopron County and the historic Moson County. Part of this is Burgenland today. After 1955, they had the opportunity to develop in a different way. Take a look at that development, and take a look at the progress that's a few miles away. How much harder it is to get back on your feet now, how much different it is when they were able to get there generations faster on the road where they were going. All I'm asking you to do is tell me the reviews, but also, please, that the process we're starting is that there's a constant decline, so the efforts we're making are working. Because it is not easy, because there are also EU and domestic laws that we need to keep, and we need to go on to create the optimal size of property that we want 80 percent of the family economy and 20 percent of the large plant. But we must not - and I would very much like to point this out to all of you - turn the two sectors against each other, because there is a great need for 20% innovation, who can make large investments there, create processing plants, create employment, because they have a concentration of capital that can increase employment and make technological development. So it is important to have them, but for us, in order for biodiversity, rural survival, a normal sociological and social development to take place, it is very important to achieve this 80 percent family economic size. All I ask is that you acknowledge the process, the effort the government is making towards this process. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-22-286	Thank you very much. Mr Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-287	Thank you very much. Mr President, Welcome to the pulpit, too. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! I would like to say a few thoughts or concerns on a subject that may have been discussed less today in this debate, because many speakers, as far as I could follow the debate here and on the Internet, spoke about the active community. So about how to keep young people in rural areas, how to create jobs, how to make them attractive to stay locally, in a good way to encourage people, and maybe less about another social group, and they are the elderly, the retired. If you look at the countryside, in many cases older people and pensioners are faced with much bigger problems than, where appropriate, active partners, just because a pensioner cannot pack up and then move to the larger city or even seek work abroad, but he is forced to condemn - who wants to put it - to live where he lived and to try to create a living space for himself. If I have good memories, about 97-98 percent of the elderly live in private households. Many of them live alone, for if I remember another number well, 66 percent of those over 70 are widows, and typically women who live alone have lost their husbands. I was thinking, while I was listening to my fellow Member Sallai's sentences from the nursing home, that it was wrong in the first place - I do not see it quite that way. I'm sure it's best to be able to live with your family in the right way, but there are life situations - I've encountered many of them myself - where an elderly home is a serious solution to the life situation of either a family or an elderly person. In addition, these pensioners usually have the lowest pension rate, as there has already been a discussion of past times, others, all previous periods, they are hit by this, so they are forced to make a living with very little money. For this reason, there is a significant number of people living in poverty, even hunger and old age hunger, in some respects. Therefore, in many cases I would also like to draw attention to the fact that it is very right to do much to eliminate hunger for children, but it is at least as important to focus on tableing and solving old age hunger. The other is that they are not only old and have to live with little money, but they are living in isolation and loneliness, which can cause them further problems. In addition, their health status, or the quality of health services in these smaller settlements, in farms, is particularly cumbersome either because of the lack of a general physician or due to problems of accessibility or many other physical obstacles. So it is a very serious problem that health care can reach these elderly people in a more difficult or worse capacity. [[21.20]] As is the case with regard to the social care system, in many cases this care system also does not reach these people and therefore cannot help them to deal with their problems. I have already mentioned mobility opportunities for a half sentence, as this is also a particularly limited option for the rural population in many cases in general, but this is particularly true for the elderly. And it is also important to mention the security situation, because in a very vulnerable situation, these people are also more vulnerable to various crimes. I just wanted to say this because once again, let me quote that today's debate has been very strongly focused on how we can help people who want or want to leave the village, the countryside, how we can limit, slow down, reverse this process. And the social group who doesn't want to leave where he lives doesn't crave, but wants to live there, safe and under the right circumstances, maybe a little less talk about them. And of course, in this situation you can help or compensate a little for the situation or compensate for the family, the civil or municipal community where people live in the village. I am quite sure that there is something that you can produce, something that these people may be less likely to produce in larger cities, but I must say that the state should have a serious role and role in this matter. At EU funds, it is also worth examining how services can be developed, how resources can be provided that are used specifically to help these elderly people in their lives, both in terms of poverty, health and social benefits, or just in terms of having a means of having a connection with the outside world and thus being able to participate in the community's life. In fact, I wanted to raise the problem, because I do not understand rural policy, especially agricultural policy, which is why I did not want to deepen myself in this, but I would like to remember that we should not forget the elderly, let us not forget those who are cumulatively disadvantaged in this regard, if I may say so. And perhaps it would also be important to hear some thoughts from the secretary of state about their programmes, their ideas, which are particularly specialized in helping pensioners living in small towns in the countryside, whether in association with local governments or with the involvement and support of civil society organisations. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2017-05-22-288	Thank you very much. Congressman István Apáti, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-289	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There are a lot of problems in the Hungarian countryside, and there are a thousand wounds, ranging from extremely low-quality roads to health care and general medical care to development imbalances, but I would like to talk a little about agriculture. I would like to point out as a debater or as a continuation of the debate: Secretary of State István Nagy, there is no reason to wonder that people do not produce. Not only have they taken away their desire to produce, but they have slowly taken away their desire to live. They were tortured physically, tortured spiritually, pulled down, damaged, crippled, crossed over by successive governments wherever they could in the last nearly three decades. There may have been times when the road to hell was paved with good intentions, but I beg you, when you try to sell a surplus beyond your own consumption of a small-scale farm, or even a small-house farm, and you encounter administrative obstacles, NAV is hunting you as a criminal, and you encounter all kinds of unnecessary and pointless official controls and fines imposed by the authorities, of course you will let it go. Well, then of course he won't produce vegetables or fruit, he won't keep cattle, because it's just not worth it. It is about the story, and it is also true for small and medium-sized family farms, that the Hungarian peasants' sweaty work is covered by the purchasing mafia among others. We also suffer from a lack of normal sales opportunities. In 2017 no one in Hungary likes to work or want to work to get tired by the end of the day, and the result of the work, if you like, is licked down by criminal or semi-criminal circles, be taken down by either the grey or the black economy. The Hungarian peasants have a God-given talent for the economy, whether it is livestock or crop production, they ask for nothing but to let them exist and let them work. Let me address one of the major problems that you have, the problem of irrigation. How do they expect a viable countryside to wait for life to return to small settlements, and people to return to the mood for agricultural production, and how do they want to give young people such a desire when we now face enormous difficulties with irrigation opportunities? I do not dispute, I do not question the good intentions of Secretary of State Miklós Kis, but if the problems with the issue of irrigation permits and new permits are not solved, or, by the way, the often one- or two-year duration of the proceedings, often in view of its considerable cost requirements, and if they will indeed significantly sabotage irrigation in any form or in the form of water-paying, then the small and medium-sized family farms will be impossible, in many cases these farms will be hit with grace. And then we didn't talk about how much we missed, let's say, the Eastern sales opportunities. We have not talked about the fact that we are becoming less and less competitive with much more supported Polish farmers. After all, he says, let's say, a Russian interested buyer, a large entrepreneur, that he knows that Hungarian fruit and vegetables are of better quality; he also says that he could buy 120 thousand tons at least every year and take them out to the region of Moscow or Ekaterinburg - this is now not possible because of the sanctions - but the Polish is cheaper. He knows that the Polish is the worse, he knows that the Hungarian is the better, but instead he is taking the Polish, because Polish farmers can go much lower in price, because their support system makes it possible. Thus, their lower quality products are much more competitive than we are. Then we should not be surprised if the possibility of watering is prevented by administrative and financial means, and then we lament that the Hungarian countryside is being depopulated, and young people do not want to take over this very nice, very noble, but extremely trying profession from their fathers and grandfathers. When it is stated in a report that agricultural irrigation represents 1 percent of water abstraction in relation to water use, groundwater use is reported in the other sentence that the state or situation of groundwater resources has deteriorated significantly over the last eight years, the two contradict each other. If there is 1 percent involvement, how could it have adversely affected the state of groundwater resources in the last eight years? This is an extremely quiet subject, we talk very little about it in Parliament. Water is not only a biological or physiological issue for humans, agriculture, plants, animals, but also for farming. I don't know of any EU country that would be so self-destructive and so foolishly screwed up by its own owners. Administrative barriers should be removed, Mr Secretary of State, all such obstacles should be removed from everywhere, but when these obstacles are announced to be reduced, these obstacles will always increase. It's always the opposite of what's supposed to happen in common sense. Of course, we talked about hospitalization and the fact that the vast majority of GPs are over 70-80 years old, and if this generation forgives the expression, dies, dies, or actually retires, then who will cure us, this is also a huge problem. The state of schools, demographic indicators and demographic proportions are also disastrous, but one of the most powerful forces in the countryside is still in agricultural production. And then there's a shortage of workers. At the same time, waste and underfunding are also present in health care, and in the northeast corner of the country, even in the Csenger and Mátészalka, the problem of unemployment, lack of prospects, low wages and lack of labour is present at the same time. With public service, a significant part of the people have been spoiled, Mr. Secretary of State. With the intention of getting a net vote, people were practically trained to respect the exception, I do not say that everyone, but a significant part of the public workers, cannot simply be exploded from this state. [[21.30]] Even though it is in Chenger, Mátészalkán, Kochordon - and I could list 44 settlements in the district - a significant number of public workers, when it is harvest or harvest season, cannot obtain two-handed workers, Mr. Secretary of State, only with increasing difficulties. Not only a skilled worker who manages machines, but also a simple handiworker, a physical worker, because it is much easier to rake public work water, to resist a layer of family support, social care, or other care - I do not say that everyone is obviously more ambitious there - than it is to stand hard on an agricultural assistant. In the case of agricultural work, two and a half times as much money could be made, but there is a real need to meet it, there are serious expectations, while in public work water-cracking is much simpler. It is quite simply necessary to force people, Mr Secretary of State - not only with the current rules, whether with sanctions or with rewards - to do so, if there is a market-based job, whether it is agricultural seasonal work, industrial work or any kind of work, to undertake, to be obliged to take on that work, and to keep public work only if absolutely necessary, if absolutely necessary. It is necessary to provide for the fullest flexibility by amending the rules for simplified employment, broadening, increasing, expanding the interval in the number of relevant working days, and interoperability between public work and work on a market or agricultural basis. Because now, even though we tell people to go from community service to unpaid leave for agricultural seasonal work, when the harvest season is over or the harvest is over, you can go back to community service, and they won't believe it. Either in worse cases, the municipality won't let him go, or he doesn't want to go, or they're trying to play these rules in some way. For the sake of the people, for the benefit of farmers, and for the benefit of public workers, it is a kind of coercion that those who are physically, mentally capable of this work should be obliged to go, because the public worker is better off because he earns much more, because the state is better off because he was able to push the former public worker into a real value-making job, and the farmer is better off because there is finally a working hand, and there is no need to be nervous about not being a laborer during the harvest season. When they bring public workers from Borsod County around Chenger, I believe it's a serious symptom, and it shows that there's something to change. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-22-290	Thank you very much. Congressman Imre Horváth, MSZP. [[For signal:]] I apologise to the Secretary of State, but I have already addressed Congressman Horváth. After, okay? [[Dr. István Nagy: It's okay.]]
u2017-05-22-291	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Many instructive things have been said today. We know that everything is connected with everything, and I think that, in addition to criticism, there are many ideas, many proposals that can be used in rural development in the near future. I would also suggest to the government next time that it would have been better to hold such a debate day, let us say, before the budgetary debate, in case we could have incorporated some of the proposals that have been made here. [[Nándor Csepreghy: We did not initiate this debate day!]] I know the answer, Mr. Secretary. In addition to the many things that have been said here, it can be said that in the regions of Hungary, although different from each other, to varying degrees, the Hungarian rural man lives from agriculture, from garden management, from which he makes his consumption, and from which he earns his modest income. Before the change of regime, Hungary's agriculture was exemplary for Europe and the world. Here, Austria was an example of what it was. In the '70s, in the late '60s, I experienced for several years how an Austrian peasant worked. The Iron Curtain was in front of him, but I also saw how the Laita-Hanság State Economy worked. We were technically mechanized, plant protection and in other respects world-wide. Today, however, the characteristic of agriculture - as has been said several times - is that oligarchs dominate Hungarian agriculture and the countryside, destroying the livelihood and future of a lot of small people. And if you look at the country life, you can't be too happy. Why? Because about 9 thousand economic organizations are engaged in agricultural activities, 40 thousand individual farms are also engaged in this activity. While the number of companies has increased by more than 10 per cent in the last few years, the number of individual farms has decreased by almost 12 per cent in the same proportion. Despite changes in support and ownership policies in recent years, farms over 500 hectares of land used by companies continue to operate in more than 70 per cent of the land used by companies. Over the last three years, the number of livestock enterprises has increased significantly by nearly a quarter, whereas the number of individual farms has decreased by 17 percent during this period. Typically, more than 60 percent of the stock is held by organizations. The main characteristics are poultry and pigs, while poultry and cattle are kept on individual holdings. Each sector requires a different amount of living labour, so the domestic production structure has a very large impact on the labour demand of agriculture. While the mechanization and automation of arable crops require little or no living work, livestock production and the labour needs of gardeners are many times higher than arable crops. At the same time, it is a particular trend that, in recent years, one of the biggest barriers to development has been the reduction and absence of applicable workers. This has been said several times in several speeches. This is a growing trend that has already reached critical proportions today. The whole picture includes the fact that in recent years the rules of work have become much simpler, thinking about reporting an occasional worker. However, it should also be said here that those who are employed, for example, in a simplified employment relationship, are not considered to be insured from a social security point of view, are not entitled to pensions, accident, health care and job search benefits. The labour costs of individual farms are double-structured, since agricultural activities are primarily carried out by non-paid family members. In addition, family farms also employ permanent and temporary employees. Individual farms employed 19 thousand permanent and 71,000 staff during the year preceding June 2016. Overall, this was 8 thousand less than in 2013. According to preliminary data, between 1 June 2015 and 31 May 2016, around 701 thousand family members carried out non-paid agricultural activities. In 2010, their number was still over 1 million. This figure decreased by 29 per cent compared to 2013, resulting in a 12 per cent reduction in the number of farms on the one hand. In the last three years, the number of people who have done less agricultural work has dropped by 34%, while the number of workers working 225 days or more has increased by 9 percent. [[21.40]] Since 2013, there has been a minimal change in the age composition of domestic producers, which is still negative. In 2016, 31 percent of farmers remained over 65 years of age, the proportion of those under 35 years of age was nearly the same as in 2013, 6 percent and 1.5 percentage points for those over 55 years of age, and 58,5 percent. In parallel with the decline in the number of farms, the number of people aged 55-64 dropped by 20 percent, while the number of people aged 35-44 and 45-54 respectively decreased by 10 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, The rural way of life, as shown by the data of the KSH, is not developing in the way and to the extent that the government is trying to demonstrate. Individual farming is constantly declining at the expense of large farms. This trend is against what the Fidesz government has been talking about since 2010. I could say the proverb that you drink wine and preach water, thus misleading the country and those living in agriculture. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-22-292	Secretary of State István Nagy, please.
u2017-05-22-293	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to answer some of the points raised by my fellow Member, Mr István Apáti. We fully agree that the quality, opportunity and livelihood of rural life are greatly enhanced by the cultivation of gardens. He is also absolutely right that placing surpluses on the market is another opportunity to be an additional source of income and income, since he can specifically help small shopping everyday. But I want you to acknowledge the efforts the government is making to make that happen. Supporting the creation of markets, to support the creation of prehistoric markets in almost every settlement, the provision of a short supply chain, the requirement that products from 40 kilometers should be bought first, the form of prehistoric existence itself, the possibility of taxing that revenue up to virtually 600 thousand forints does not even have to be recorded - so this can be a workable thing. And allow me to say that the market must be checked, for the sake of consumer safety. Nébih's investigation serves to ensure that the customer is convinced that he will certainly buy a healthy product. We come from one place, we know what to do with pesticides, we know where to get it, we know what permissions it has, how licensed it is in Hungary, how not there, exactly. There are so many terrifying stories about some treatments that you need to make sure that the customer is buying a healthy product. In the garden as an area to be cultivated, there are opportunities that we must take advantage of. Hundreds of thousands of hectares total the number of gardens that are not cultivated or - that could be increased - in which people plant only grass and ornamental trees or flowers instead of growing fruit trees or vegetables. There's definitely a need to talk about the phenomenon you mentioned about the takeover mafia. Yes, this causes great bitterness, many human tragedies to many people in many places. But let me ask you, my dear fellow Member, what else do we need to get people to work together, to form production groups, to form producer-selling cooperatives, to act together, not to give our fate into the hands of such scoundrels, but to control ourselves? There we are, there's opportunity. We give 150 million forints for five years; 30 million forints a year to create such producer groups, which can help market access and sales in a larger area. I totally agree with the irrigation. I must say to you that there is very serious work going on within the government, inter-ministerial discussions are taking place with the involvement of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, precisely so that we can respond adequately to the challenges of this age. In order to avoid any disadvantage until then, all irrigation regulations have now been frozen. That means you don't have to pay for the permission of the wells, you don't have to pay for the extraction, you don't have to pay for anything, you're blocked. What we have always wanted to achieve is 50,000 cubic metres, which is allowed by the EU Convention, and we do not have to pay up to 50,000 cubic metres. We'd like to raise this to at least 100,000 cubic meters. This means that we can irrigate from 50 hectares to 100 hectares practically free of charge. But there are a lot of questions, we have to model and create procedures. Where can the canal go, whose land, if we take someone's land, who pays for the canal, who maintains the channel, who maintains it, who ensures that the flow of water is always done, who is the operator? So there are a lot of questions that we need to answer, in which we need the cooperation of the farming community to get the right answers, because we don't have these answers, we don't have these agreements. Everyone wants the canal to go to the end of the earth, but don't touch his territory, because then he's already out of territory, and then someone keeps it clean, let the water flow, don't cost him anything, and otherwise, let me get the water for free, because I'm the farmer after all. So there are a lot of questions that need to be cleared up, that need to be sacrificed, that we need to find the right answers, but without cooperation, we can't do that again. So we have to find a deal. You mentioned the public workers. Let's just agree that whatever the community worker is doing, it's better than doing nothing, but sitting in front of any house and watching who goes there. So it's better than aid, you have to go in at 7:00, 6:00, 8:00 a.m., you have to show up. [[Dr. István Apáti: He's home by 9:00!]] You need to shave. There's a big mistake with whoever's supervising this. But that's where you need to go. And what you have raised, my dear fellow Member, is the truth that you have lost your focus because what you are asking for has been achieved. [[Dr. István Apáti: It just doesn't work!]] We can tie them up. I was in Mary's Puddle, and I witnessed the 20 tons of cherry rotting on the trailer because it was 30-40 degrees hot, and there was no man to take it off on Sunday morning. You can't do this. Then came the bill, and we passed the law that among the public workers, a suitable person could be appointed to participate in seasonal work. [[Dr. István Apáti: I can't!]] And here's the nasty part: anyone who doesn't participate can be excluded from any care for three years. [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] It's not a nice law, it's a very ugly law, but even - you put it this way - you have to force these people into the economic sphere from public work. You can see in the current budget that we intend to redirect about 50,000 people from the number of public workers to the economic sector, so that in 2018 they will produce in the competitive sector for much higher wages than where they are now. But these people's families haven't worked in three or four generations. It's a great thing that he wakes up in the morning, shaves and goes in. [[Dr. István Apáti: Good shaving too!]] It's a very difficult process sociologically, socially, to get them to work. But we took the biggest step because the first step is always the biggest. But now he's working as a public worker, he knows he's getting paid, he knows he's got to be assigned, he's just one step away from the economic sphere, and I think this year 2018 will have a very big advantage. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-22-294	Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik.
u2017-05-22-295	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We have just witnessed that almost everyone has touched on the issue of health as one of the important shortcomings in the countryside and one of the difficult elements of rural life. Indeed, my fellow Members are right, and they rightly feel that there is some contradiction and some problem here. If we look at the statistics and perhaps it is not possible to accuse KSH in many cases of cosmetics our already relatively bad indicators in the wrong direction, it is crystal clear in the Eurostat report based on this fact that there are currently - this thesis - 700 thousand people in Hungary, mainly in the countryside, whose access to health services is not the same as what they imagined, so they have unsatisfactioned health services. That's 700,000 people right now. I'm going to prove this to you, and I'm going to draw it out. [[21.50]] The question of accessibility is a very simple and easy-to-get question for people, as it seeks the answer to whether the rural resident has access to health care, where he is being treated, or where he can be treated, whether there is a worker in that institution, whether the ambulance can get to him in time, or whether he can heal close to his home. These are the questions that the residents are looking for every day, and it should be said that there are two problems behind the problem, one lack of infrastructure, and one shortage of workers. If we go through the levels, we can clearly see that in basic care, that is, in general doctors, dentists, or even in protective services, we can see that it is provided by a medical staff in poor condition, it has typically grown old, it has been mentioned several times, yet the exact figure is that 43 percent of the country's GPs, so almost half of it is over 60 years old. This means an extremely bad chorus and an extremely bad view for rural residents. But what is a major problem is the issue of unfilled practices. What I'm seeing is that the government has been trying to put serious money into making sure these practices can be filled in some way. But for some reason, this track was unattractive, and if we started from the 200-250 unfilled practice, despite the money in it, there are 350 unfilled practices in Hungary today, and 250 unfilled dental practices. And these are typically both rural and small settlement areas, where, in the foreseeable future, there is no chance of getting a doctor or a doctor for a supply area. And that's mainly because in the current financing model, where more than one practice needs to be maintained, and to do so, there is a need to ensure assimilation at ordering time there, which produces so little that it is not worth operating these businesses, these general medical businesses, because all the funding fees that come in are not enough for what needs to be spent there. Basically, the basic care deficiencies are the ones that the rural population encounters for the first time, and this is a huge burden on basic care care care, because everyone who doesn't have proper access to their home doctor during the day will, after 16 hours, take it and go to the doctor's office, which is either a GP's or, by the way, an outpatient's on call, or otherwise, hospital duty itself, and everyone who doesn't get slammed in without screening, all the rural residents who don't have access to it, I'm telling you, 700,000 people don't have access to decent health care in the countryside. They are pouring into the next level, and the more expensive health care in the world does not exist when we try to treat people in a hospital, who would have been treated on the first or second level. As regards the shortcomings in outpatient care, this typically covers the problems of medium-sized settlements, and occurs mainly in medium-sized settlements between 10 and 20 thousand, also because of their lack of equipment, lack of employees, and even because of the state of the roads, these clinics often find it difficult to approach due to very, very far-sighted planning and with great difficulties, with serious disadvantages. The third problem was the existence of small hospitals, when the socialists once started and the Fidesz people continued to change structures in hospitals, then we faced what János Lázár said here today as a dilemma that we started talking about a hospital number, whether there were enough or many hospitals or few hospitals in Hungary, to which János Lázár said that this question, which we are talking about, is stupid. Well, I partly agree with him, because he has no regard for the needs of the residents who use the supply system in Hungary. Of course, there is a need to draw a line for certain benefits under which we can no longer install a small settlement. On the one hand, there's no technology, there's no proper Cuba, and there's no man for it. No one expects it, and I believe that only one villager, one Tisaderji or one Böhönye, no resident expects brain surgeons to work or perform open-heart surgery at the nearest hospital in Nagyatád or Karcag. People accept that there is a need to travel at some level, but they do not accept what has been the trend of the past period, and this government has a thick grip on the fact that day-to-day surgical care and all the benefits that can be done in outpatient care are safely, cheap and effective, although supported on paper, but actually destroyed. We've been through this process in Marcali, we've been through Tapolca, and now we've been through Siksó. In the hospital in Sziksó, as soon as the period of support and the maintenance period, which was 31 January, were completed on 1 February, the complete one-day surgical block was packed and the supply of 80,000 inhabitants from the small settlements in Borsod was taken away from it, from which I was tormented to enter anywhere. It was hard even to get into Sikso, not to talk to Miskolc and stand in line at the county hospital to get medical attention. Well, that's the direction we've been thinking about in hospitals lately. So you'll have to draw that limit somewhere, and you'll have to go back to where you can keep our hospitals economically and safely. 'Cause right now, most of our hospitals, even if they can get close to them, have no good care, and they have good care, and it's almost impossible to get to them. And I'm talking in parentheses about if any of us go to a county hospital or go to a major institution, we're gonna have to pay a hell of a lot of parking fees. At the county hospital, it costs 1,500 forints a half an hour. Well, it's cheaper to park around Parliament than in the county hospital, and that's how the rural population should approach important supply facilities. But we could talk about ambulances. Paramedics have also proven that no matter how much money they try to develop, they spend on development, within 15 minutes of the threshold, there are counties where only half of the 22,000 emergency calls can be made. Also lack of infrastructure, lack of rescue workers, lack of motor vehicles. There's simply no energy on it, and that's how people live in hidden villages, that they don't have a chance of getting rescuers to them in 15 minutes. And when you look at Hungary as XXI. We're building a century-old health care system, and we're looking at the fact that somewhere still is XX. We have health problems in the last century. When we look at international trends as the required level of health demand decreases and people are in a better position, health services are increasingly meeting their expectations, this percentage is constantly increasing in Hungary. We are increasingly producing worse statistics, and I can conclude with what I started by saying that, while in Hungary 700 thousand people, especially people living in rural areas, are not satisfied with their access to health care and quality care, we must talk about how rural development can move in any direction, but it cannot leave out the aspect of health care. So as a biased health politician, I am asking my fellow Members to focus on this, and we will also use energy to do so. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-22-296	Thank you very much. Mr István Apáti asked for a two-minute speech, Mr Jobbik. Here.
u2017-05-22-297	Thank you very much. I am pleased, Mr Secretary, that you reacted not only at the end of the debate, but at the same time, this is very important. Believe me, Mr Secretary of State, I know that this is in principle the way of regulation, that there is a more flexible interoperability between public work and market-based work, agricultural seasonal work, and, in principle, it would be mandatory to do so, but the leaders of small settlements do not oblige a more problematic part of public workers to do so. So again, separated, I'm not saying that that's how all public workers tend to do it, but there's a major part of public workers that tries to play the rules of the system in a way that suits their own interests. They just don't dare risk being expelled from community service for three years. Not only because that public worker would be put in an impossible position, even if he was in an impossible situation because of his own error, but also because, in some cases, they are simply afraid of the overwhelming anger of several populous families to put it mildly, and, on the other hand, a very serious loss of vote would be realised by the municipality that would literally follow these rules. In fact, there are traditions in some settlements, in a difficult way to prove that, where appropriate, the other parts of the country - even construction, this is the better case, because at least the public worker is working on the market - they may go abroad or to the luckier half of the country for construction work or auxiliary work, but they are also supposed to receive the public worker's wages, but they just need to tip a twenty a month to the public worker's supervisor, and then everything is greased. I know, if we have official knowledge, let's press charges, but we're not a secret service and a detective and a police officer, that's the problem. I wanted to be once, it didn't work out that way. The other, Mr. Secretary, is another simple example of administrative difficulties, correct me if I'm wrong. Defensive against fire-death is a medicine that has been banned in Hungary. Not in any other country, it's considered dangerous here, but not in the West. In English: the farmer either waits for good luck to see if his ten-acre plantation dies or he uses a banned drug at the risk of a major fine. Now, that's a stupid thing to stop, Mr. Secretary. That's what I'm talking about. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[22.00]]
u2017-05-22-298	We will now return to the speakers who have been announced. Congressman Zoltán Haughty, MSZP!
u2017-05-22-299	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Well, towards the end of the debate, I think it's pretty much possible to make a register. Gábor will help me, because there has been a lot of talk here. I must say that this was clearly useful in such a way that the problem was largely identified. The solution has different proposals and opinions. I can only say what I said at the beginning of the speech that the problem is that I think we should have done this problem discovery around the time of the change of regime. I can safely say that there has been more trauma in the Hungarian countryside. I think it was also traumatic when they collektivated me, but it was also when, in '90, the system of working agriculture was almost completely destroyed, which was then invented by forced transformation, and not by organic development. This profession cannot stand it, where biology needs to be served, on the one hand, and on the other, there are mechanisms of at least 20 years, so often such a loss of wealth. Unfortunately, this has happened several times. That's why our competitors are now in favour of us, because they were practically on a straight track. Of course, how competitive this course is with an American or New Zealand agriculture, for example, is another issue. Because let us not forget when we talk about rural development and rural policy, that the world is not completely open to us, Europe, because there are still customs and a lot of things, but there are products here somewhere. Let's just say you have to pay attention to why there's only New Zealand cheese on every plane in the world. I think if we're serious about these things, we should pay attention. The other is the kind of loss of income, the retention of the income produced, which is typical of Austria, Gábor said in quite detail, and here more people in the countryside are aware of the level of awareness that if they do not help each other, they will end up being wrong, which we will certainly need a lot of time to do. 'Cause for now, I see envy factor as much stronger than helpful. This is a very big problem. The other, when there was relatively dynamic development, regardless of the social set-up, and I think many people cry back - whatever we say, from the mid-70s until the end of the 1980s - the Hungarian village existence was a secret. He had a lot of secrets, but one thing's for sure, he didn't take away his income. Now there's a layer embedded in this mechanism, and I'm talking about agriculture in particular, which is not interested in the development of the local community, but in making the greatest profit possible. That's the problem. Anyone applying this system should be clearly subject to degression. We never argued that there should be a subsidy limit, but not on the basis of 1,200 hectares, and then it doesn't matter whether it's 10 crowned land or 25 crowned gold earths, or 30, whether or not that business gives a living to 200 people or a living to 10 on 5,000 hectares. We don't agree with that. We say that there must be a levy of this type, because obviously the ability to generate profits is different for a larger capacity, but rather it should be placed on a coercive path, so that everyone who wants to make a living from agriculture can add much more to the development of their own environment. 'Cause right now, it's not exactly preferred in any way. In fact, there has been a situation where a village can't profit a penny from land in its own environment. Let us consider that if the land is operated or cultivated by an undertaking that is not registered in that settlement, for example, its machines are not in that settlement. That doesn't mean he can't even collect weight taxes on his own broken roads. Not to mention that it does not have any tax revenue, even if, by the way, that undertaking generates a serious profit. Not to mention that I would, by the way, not only tax dividends in agriculture, but in agriculture in particular. I'd be damned if I could tax it. It doesn't work, we know about an agricultural business, where salaries are kept very low, and then, by the way, hundreds of millions of dividends are taken out by the owners. I think that this could be regulated at some level, so that, let's say, if you pay your people below the average wage level and take out dividends, you don't pay the regular 15 percent dividend tax, you pay 50 percent or 80 percent. If such a proposal comes, we will certainly support it. There's nothing going on with that dividend in that settlement. But if you pay your people there, for example, and it doesn't matter if you're a private company or a social company, if you're doing this, then the state must somehow intervene in this mechanism. However, I also agree that more people here have said that the smearing of real small producers and the destruction of the authorities must be minimized. I'm sure that if we were to create a normal prehistoric system, which, for example, doesn't allow me to produce grain... cereal production is not prehistoric production, it's a tax avoidance trick, nothing else. 'Cause getting into a transporter on a train with 40 tons of grain with eight shipping tickets isn't primal production, people. It's just about not having to pay taxes. And it's a terrible competitive advantage because they operate on hundreds of acres with a background of prehistoric producers. Grandma, grandpa, grandpa, granddaughter, uncle, aunt, everybody's an ancestor. It's not normal. It is the prehistoric producer who can supply the environment with the excess product he produces. For example, I certainly can't afford cereal production in this one. And if we agreed on who is the original producer and it couldn't sell bananas on the papal market, then we could introduce the flat-rate tax without further ado, as is the case in Austria, and we wouldn't have to entertain him by checking whether or not he has a block twice a week. Pay it, which is trained after a certain capacity, and then it's okay. I think that certain things must be seen as fundamental rights to the survival of the countryside, such as access to services, including education and health services from transport infrastructure to transport infrastructure. Somehow, I think they should be enshrined in the Fundamental Law or the Constitution. 'Cause the problem is, there's nothing to protect in the country right now. Nothing! Even the municipality may decide to terminate certain activities, but also the State. Unfortunately, we've done this before, and we were no different. That's what I was talking about in the expo. That's what everyone does. For us, for example, the cancellation of flights and the promise of everything to Fidesz in 2010 did not restore any of them. Because it would be a fair saying backwards if everything had gone back to its place. But there's nothing back here. I think these are the points, and I included nursing. I'd say I grew up in a multigenerational family. There was no question who was taking care of the great-grandmother who was available, I must say. And it wasn't a problem. But you don't live in a multigenerational family either, and I don't think a lot of people live here. Because what was the point? That it's better for the child to be separated from the parent. I'm not saying there was no conflict in the multigenerational family. Of course there was. Where four generations lived together, you can imagine that not everything between them was cloudy, but it was normal and normal. But it's not like that anymore. And I don't think you can go back that way. Just like you can't go back in the direction of a pig's eye holding 300 pigs in the middle of the village. No way! Because when everyone was holding, it smelled the same everywhere, and you were all the same everywhere, so it didn't bother each other. He just didn't care about it. But now you have to see that this world is no longer like this. Then you have to organize life in such a way that someone has the opportunity to keep an animal, only in such a way that they comply with the rules of normal living together. 'Cause the problem isn't keeping a decent animal, it's the one who, say, doesn't take the manure out of his yard for four months. This cannot, of course, be left out by the authority, and I agree that this situation cannot be left without full supervision. [[22.10]] The second is that, for the time being, it appears that the infrastructure development and the resulting income or demand for payment that occurred after the change of regime was not covered. There used to be no garbage prizes in the village, sewerage fees and stuff. There was no trash. It was resolved that there was no unnecessary input or output, there was nothing there, because there was no need. The village set-up, the village was almost the same as a farmhouse, only a house was a farmhouse. And we talked about the farm program. I told the Secretary of State that it would be nice to have a look around, because there's definitely a Btk story there, so that's for sure. I don't see the producers in the operation of the large capital market either, but it's a sideline, we have a common task in this, and we will look around in this, of course. So what I think is that if we could sort of agree in these cases on what the limit is, as long as we can give certain concessions to the production, on what we can push those who now live on it, I think we could move something. But let's not have any illusions, there won't be ten million pigs or more from the market, because we can't handle it; now we have managed to overcome ourselves to 2.8 million, even though the price is above 400 forints, and I don't understand it either, but everyone seems to be waiting for development, and now they don't want to increase the number of existing capacities. This needs to be speeded up, which is what I say to Mr. Secretary of State, and I mean to Csepreghy, that we really should do something, that we should decide the applications, because it's been a year and a half, and that's not good. This is not good for the settlements either, but mostly for agricultural enterprises. I think there's a lot we can work out here if we can talk about it. From what I can see, there are partners in this. But even today, I don't know how the program of modern cities got involved, but I don't think that was the subject of this debate. I was happy to listen to Győr's terrible development - I come through it almost every day, so I know exactly what is there - but I do not believe that this was the subject of this debate. But that's also true of Debrecen. Nevertheless, it is also certain that a rural area cannot function if there is no normal, environmentally friendly capacity, because Europe does not work in a village, but works in a way that is better to live there and then to work 15-20-30 kilometers. I think we need to help that, too, and I think it's a basic question, and we need roads that are viable, because there really are roads where the SUV isn't going to be enough. I would like to say that we are partners in this. It is because there can be no situation that subsidies are not paid at the end of May in the order of 100 billion, because for example, the profession does not tolerate this. The other is that we need legal certainty. These interventions in recent years, either in the land lease system or in the land law, did not serve legal certainty. Thus, it is very difficult to expect investors, and one must be seen: there is no other village capitalist force, such as agriculture. So it is possible to do more capital attractions, not agricultural activity, and let us not forget that, because there is infrastructure - this is true in family farms, and it is true in social economies - and the ideal ratio is obviously to help develop, but not through harsh interventions. I think that if we could roughly agree on these matters, then perhaps, I am not saying that we could save the 500-600 villages, which, unfortunately, we have to say, there was so much population loss that it is unlikely that they can be saved in the long term, but at least try the rest so that the entire rural population does not have to live elsewhere than where it has been used to for decades. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-22-300	Congressman Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik.
u2017-05-22-301	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So as the end of the debate day, I would like to make a quote. Agriculture is the engine of GDP - this is how Sándor Font started his speech, and I have to say that he is certainly right about this, but we should correct it, and at the end of today's debate, I think we can agree that in order to be able to talk about agriculture in Hungary, we still have to put a lot more on the table, because what is the engine of GDP, especially industrial raw material production, rather than agriculture that provides the basis for quality, sustainable jobs in rural areas, say, with added value. So I trust that the future resources will be distributed in such a way that on such a day of debate, we do not really need to listen to the good future achievements of the programme "Modern Cities" but we can talk about how these certain missing quality jobs have been created and how they will be able to keep our young people in the countryside and how they can prevent both migration to the West and migration within the country, because both are the result of a catastrophic past period and policy, I can say that these 60-70 years have been the result and it would be very good if we could use these European Union and domestic resources to stop and reverse this process. I am confident that we will not have to wait another year for this big change of logic until the Jobbik government, and we can now report that the resources will continue to be distributed in the coming months, and that we will be able to meet with such legislation. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-22-302	Congressman Gábor Bellozó, MSZP.
u2017-05-22-303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to start by thanking all of you for this debate today, because I believe that today's debate has been much more professional and calm than, by the way, similar debates have been. I, too, would like to conclude in this way at the end of the debate by saying that I would like to devote the remaining few minutes to two details for which there is little time left, and in the beginning, in my first speech, I did not have the time to explain them. On the one hand, I would like to argue why the creation of marketable jobs should be placed on the shoulders of existing agricultural enterprises, why this should be the pillar in the countryside. We all know the phenomenon that, in a large part of our villages, some large agri-businesses, businesses - we often call this a family farm, but basically businesses for industrial crop production - are particularly competitive in farming the land on hundreds of, sometimes thousands of hectares, of which they can make quite a profit, while there is simply no livelihood in the surrounding village or villages, there is no marketable work, while these businesses have the right business knowledge, banking connections, financial knowledge, everything that needs to grow out of it for even a new enterprise. Mr State Secretary, we need to link the area aid to the pressure on employment in order to give these businesses an incentive that if they want to receive this significant area aid, they should employ people. I know very well that this crop sector doesn't need more people, it's gonna take less people than it is now, it's not gonna need more. It's okay. Make a plastic injection moulding plant or a sewing shop that we talked about, or whatever it is that people can be employed in, and if it comes out on zero, it's still worth it, because you get the area payment. But if we add the help institution system that can put the appropriate logistics, market organisation and knowledge support of these products; so that everyone can understand: when Áfesz used to work, which made small-scale production, home farming was also viable, when I said at the beginning that the system was missing today, I thought that that support institution system and these incentives would have to be there to re-establish jobs in the countryside on the market, and that is a very good opportunity or opportunity to do so, that there is an EU area support, which today has exactly the opposite effect, but if we connect it with employment, then it would be an incentive to create viable jobs again in the countryside. The other important thing is that the income generated has to be kept in the settlements. The problem today is that in many settlements, if income comes through various transfers, that is, through whatever subsidies, through social transfers, through public works, if there is income, for example through energy bills - a reduction in costs here or there, which, moreover, did not really affect the villages, because they fire wood, the price of which went up and not down - they go out. In the poorest settlements, in the poorest regions, service providers are constantly thinking with the state about what a tricky solution it is to come up with and prepaid cards and everything, because people don't have the money to pay the bill while they can generate their energy locally. [[22.20]] Today, the state grants a lot of support for this kind of local power generation, just not for the poor, but for the rich. Today, there is a support system for Rose Hill and XII. We're gonna put a perimeter full of solar panels, because we're gonna give support to families if they can put significant self-esteem on the side. Let's say at a family house or a condo, a minimum of HUF 5 million is such an investment, so anyone who has HUF 2.5 million will be added another 2.5 million to get free energy. Now, ladies and gentlemen, you shouldn't spend a penny like this. Community money should be used to make useful investments for the community and should be focused precisely on enabling disadvantaged municipalities to generate their own energy needs, thereby giving them free energy, which they can provide to local businesses, or if we do this to the right size, so we oversize it, they can provide energy, from which they have continuous income, and from this revenue they can also start the development of the local economy. I have also given this example, honourable Members, because we need to think differently from the way we have always thought, no matter which government we were talking about. I kind of feel like we're always making up problems, and we're thinking about traditional ways to put together a matrix that makes it work. Forget it, it's not gonna work. We're gonna need new tools. That is why I said that we need a social economy, where the market could not create jobs, where the state does need to enter, start jobs that become marketable, and that requires an appropriate support system. In energy, we need to rethink the support system, we need to forget this system of support for the rich, and that is why I said that such a social green economy development programme should be launched, which focuses on bringing disadvantaged regions to this potential for energy production, and we need to encourage existing agricultural enterprises to create jobs again, not only in agriculture, but also beyond. If we make these changes, believe me, then we can significantly improve the opportunities and opportunities of people living in the countryside, and we can create many, not only jobs, but also income-generating opportunities, which will make people's lives more bearable, more normal, and if we add the community development tools that we also talked about and rebuild the rural community, then the Hungarian villages will be able to live again. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And that's what we're gonna have to do together. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-05-22-304	Thank you very much. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP.
u2017-05-22-305	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to thank all of you for this debate and for our precious discussion on these issues. With my last sentences, I would like to refer back to Minister János Lázár's initial sentences: he said that a government can directly influence what is happening in the villages. As a conclusion, I'd like to say that it's time, maybe you only have a year left to make a meaningful impact on the fate of this country, it's time to start doing good. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-05-22-306	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, I'm gonna ask if there's anyone else who wants to talk to you about the remaining time frame. I see who knows or who can't, but do you wish to speak? [[No one's reporting.]] Come on. I note that no one wants to take advantage of the opportunity to speak, so that we are at the end of the speeches, and the political debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Csepreghy. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-307	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor and allow me to try to recall in the closing remarks which, I think, are the subject of consensus between the current government and the current opposition parties in Parliament. Perhaps in a sentence we can summarize the essence of today's debate by saying that the glass is not full, but it is not completely empty. The last comments of the past few minutes have convinced me that there has indeed been a meaningful dialogue here, like other debates, which is certainly a joyful state. Many have also raised questions about the issue of rural development, which not all Members considered to be relevant, but here we have seen that the most narrow rural development debate and viewpoint, which is basically all about dealing with agricultural issues, has been included in today's debate as well as what thinks of the countryside as essentially 8 million 84 thousand Hungarian citizens, about the living space of our fellow countrymen, and thus forms an integral part of the development of larger rural cities. Undoubtedly, the latter face a completely different problem map than the majority of the Hungarian countryside. What is there in which there is consensus between the government's position and view, putting today's debate behind us? On the one hand, rural development is more than just a reflection on the state of agriculture. As a result, the Hungarian countryside is more than the economic and demographic hinterland of Budapest, and the Hungarian countryside can therefore create its own right to invest in it and hope for Hungary's economic and demographic renewal. What are the three points, which I believe, in the opinion of all the parliamentary parties, is a basic condition for the region to really catch up, grow and become a pledge of renewal? On the one hand, it is for the countryside to be able to create existentiality, so the countryside should not be an area where people want to be, but an area where they can find their own financial calculations. If this happens, the countryside should be an area where the state can provide citizens with the same quality of services in terms of various public services, as it can do in the capital or in the metropolitan areas, and the countryside should be an area for those living there where there is also the possibility for people to spend existing leisure time culturally and meaningfully. I think that today's debate, the last eight hours, has brought us closer to discussing these issues, so allow me, on behalf of the government, to express my thanks to all of you and to the parties and factions you represent for taking part in the debate. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-05-22-308	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, MEP Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, applied for a speech on the problems of Enese, Ikrény, Rábapatona and Koroncó. It's an address. Congressman, please.
u2017-05-22-309	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! At the end of this agenda, I was able to make my speech after the agenda, and I am also pleased that it is somewhat related to what I have to say. Enese is located between 1734 inhabitants, Győr and Csorna, and otherwise we can be very proud of her, she has been inhabited for 6,000 years. His history, like the other settlements in the region, was quite tempestuous, as conflicts did not spare him. Perhaps it is worth mentioning the most positive development in the first and recent times, the 1860s, when István Hetvényi was there, and he brought education there among the best. What I would like to highlight from her present situation is the Doll Museum, I also had a way of viewing the collection of Mrs. Miklós Podmaniczky, which is really very interesting, and the collection of local history is rare. The village Ikrény has 1826 inhabitants, 8 km from Győr. Its name is probably derived from the word "twin" and its first owners are from the Ikrényi genus. The population has tripled in the last 50 years. This is a rare blessing or curse for smaller settlements, depending on who you talk to in the settlement, but it is definitely due to the influence of Győr. 2074 people live in Koron, 10 kilometers west of Győr. Here it is worth telling how the settlement became famous throughout Hungary, but perhaps it is famous all over Europe, as on June 13, 1704 there was a serious Kuruc-labitch fight, which, unfortunately, fell on the side of the labs. You have significant sports and cultural life to date. On Rabapatona, 2,500 people live, located between Rábca and Rába, were allegedly inhabited by besensers. We could talk about a lot of conflicts here too, but let's move on to today. [[22.30]] With regard to these municipalities, I can say that, unlike the previous weeks, the problem of abandoned property or unemployment is not a daily problem. As I mentioned earlier, this is mainly the result of proximity to Győr. However, I have to mention the state of the roads here too, and I do not have to mention the responsibility of the municipalities in particular, because they have done so, as far as possible, but rather the roads managed by the Road. If you come off the motorway or the expressway crossing the area, there is a good chance that you will face medieval conditions, which will cause significant disadvantages for local businesses, for example, as well as for residents using cars or public transport. Not to mention the deterioration in the quality of access to various social or health institutions. Local businesses have also said that they would like to have greater opportunities to become suppliers in Western, typically automotive, investments in Győr and its surroundings. To do this, they would need proposals, resources that would allow this and would be able to make these qualitative leaps. It has appeared as a new source of conflict as a result of internal migration, that since anyone who wants to work in the region is able to do so, this type of internal migration and the resulting conflicts have emerged, which can only be managed if they are not forced to work in Western Europe, at least not as many as they are now, and the East Hungarians or the South Transdanubian people are not forced to come to the region to fill and fill these jobs that are thus empty. That is why I think it is important to mention now the Jobbik Wage Union initiative, which the European Commission has allowed, at least the collection of signatures can start. In this way, eight countries in Central and Eastern Europe can start to promote the initiative with citizens and collect signatures. I have found very sad that the government has not backed up this better initiative, while it is not a party policy issue at all. This is well demonstrated by the fact that in different countries the parties, trade unions and associations of various colours recognized the importance of the initiative and stood behind it. So I encourage [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the government to support the initiative in the interests of these municipalities. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-22-310	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, please.
u2017-05-22-311	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, I think the settlements that you have listed in our county are under a lucky stars, because the people who live there have opportunities for employment, cultural, social or health care, which many other settlements could envy. You've admitted that, and I think that's perfectly all right. Allow me to give you a summary of the territorial use of EU aid in all settlements, broken down into municipalities, and then you can see that the development and economic progress of these settlements is guaranteed and has great potential in the coming years and decades. From all the economic wonders in Győr, Győr-Moson-Sopron County, these settlements can profit specifically. It is not by accident that the settlements and settlements in our county have a very different problem compared to other areas of Hungary. They struggle with how they can start a new class when the residents arrive in mid-August and at the same time appear in Mosonmagyaróvár between 20 and 40 children, how to expand the institutional network. While others are struggling with the opposite process, our county, our settlement, and especially the Győr agglomeration, which they said about the settlements in a radius of 5-10 kilometers, are struggling with this. I hope that all the words of appreciation you have given them will be appreciated by the settlements. I can say that we wish you a good job, and we wish you a good life. Allow me to give this to you. [[It's happening.]] to use it in the work of its representatives. Thank you very much, Congressman.
u2017-05-22-312	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech:. How does the Government help producers affected by avian influenza to comply with the epidemiological conditions? It's an address. Here you go.
u2017-05-22-313	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I am very pleased that Mr Secretary of State has remained here, unlike fellow ministers and State Secretarys who have done so regularly over the last few weeks that they have run out at the end of the meeting so that they do not have to answer the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for being here, Mr Secretary of State, and I trust you can give me a few reassuring sentences on the problem that affects many or hundreds of Hungarian families in Bács-Kiskun County and in the neighbourhood, and which I would like to talk about now. Last year, in October of last year, avian influenza was raised in Hungary, which caused a great deal of damage and loss of income to many farmers. A few days ago, I was approached by my hometown, a poultry farmer from the Soltvadkert district of Bács-Kiskun County. He said that the livestock in the region is largely owned by integration, so producers can rely on their goodwill or rely only on some level of compensation. However, on the basis of the information provided, the compensation granted by the State only partially arrived at the integrations. In addition, unfortunately, the income replacement subsidies granted to workers in the sector have not yet been paid in full, so they have not paid any fees for their work lost as a result of the destruction of stocks. At the same time, by the beginning of summer this year, all poultry farmers must fulfil the conditions laid down by the CDC, otherwise they must suspend their production activities and not accept any new stocks. The case requires particular attention, as a large part of the data subjects have made use of a final financial reserve in order to meet the required conditions. These are, without the need for completeness, the creation of possibilities for closed keeping, the provision of closed storage of feed and straw, the establishment of a black-and-white dressing room, an autopsy room, wheel sanitizer, body storage. In view of a large number of livestock farms, for example, the creation and construction of these can add millions of additional costs to farmers. Dear Secretary of State, In general, poultry farmers have been experiencing an increasing additional burden in recent years beyond the unexpected expenditure caused by avian influenza. It is mandatory to be a member of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy and to pay a membership fee and a food chain inspection fee to the National Food Chain Safety Office. For these organisations, this fee is determined on gross income, such as 100-100 thousand forints per year in the case of 100 million revenues. Not to mention that the Chamber for this award - and I know that Mr Secretary of State is going to argue about this, but believe me, farmers think so - does not provide a service that helps producers' everyday lives. In addition, they must also enter the Poultry Product Council, at least if they wish to apply for aid. In addition to the burdens listed here, a number of others make everyday life difficult for farmers, many of whom have been unable to work for more than half a year due to avian influenza, but have to pay those fees even in the absence of adequate income. On the basis of the problems listed, the following questions are rightly raised, which I would like to address to the Secretary of State. Will the deadline for compliance with the epidemiological conditions be extended due to delays in the payment of aid? What is the reason for the delay in payment of these items? Does the government wish to reduce the burden on Hungarian poultry producers? Thank you very much in advance, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-22-314	Thank you. Secretary of State István Nagy, please.
u2017-05-22-315	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My dear fellow Member, The agricultural portfolio has developed the income replacement aid that will help duck and goose keepers most affected by avian influenza quickly. The detailed rules of the aid are set out in Article 12/2017 on the replacement premium for losses due to avian influenza in certain areas of the poultry production track. It's in the FM Regulation. The Hungarian Treasury sent the application form to duck and goose keepers by post until 15 April 2017, which must be returned to the Treasury signed within 10 days of receipt. [[22.40]] Forint 1.7 billion forints were earmarked for the support, which will be available to the livestock farmers by the end of spring this year. In order to alleviate the difficulties in employment caused by avian influenza, the existing job retention aid managed by the Ministry of National Economy, which operates in the form of de minimis aid, may be of assistance to cutting and processing enterprises. The funding of the support is provided by the resources of the National Employment Fund through the. We act immediately. The resources of the Fund are set out in Article 1141/2017. Government decrees that the government has increased it to HUF 1 billion. In addition, the FM amended the detailed rules for the control of avian influenza on the basis of the request of the Poultry Product Council and the professional opinion of the National Centre for the Protection of Diseases 143/2007. FVM Regulation to assist dispatches from restricted areas. Based on the negotiations and consultations of the veterinary authority, the damage caused by national trade restrictions has also been reduced. Canada, Hong Kong, Ukraine, USA, Serbia and Israel have only banned consignments from certain restricted areas or counties, thank God, not from the whole country. During the outbreak, some 2 million 660,000 poultry were killed. Based on the number of animals and the number of colonies, duck keepers were most affected. The keepers of animals which comply with the relevant legislation and which are subject to official measures as a result of the disease are entitled to state compensation for their killed animals and for their destroyed assets. The compensation amounts to approximately HUF 10.7 billion, of which more than HUF 9 billion have already been paid. Payments are ongoing on the basis of decisions that have been taken to the full extent of the law. The veterinary authority has also been in constant consultation with the Poultry Product Council since the beginning of the disease in order to mitigate direct damage. In order to better implement the epidemiological measures - and I would very much like my fellow Member to understand this - and to combat the epidemic as soon as possible, more stringent measures than those required under EU and domestic legislation have been imposed during the epidemic. Such was, for example, the pre-emptive killing that could be used as an option, which was used in a one-kilometer radius of outbreaks in the densest poultry population. The objective of the measure was to reduce the susceptible population in the area and to prevent the spread of the virus on the other hand. The killing and disinfection shall be carried out by the authority at the cost of the State. And here comes a very important thing: in order to minimise the spread of the virus in wild birds to poultry flocks throughout Europe and thus to minimise the emergence of a similar epidemic, the national chief veterinary surgeon 3/2017 was released. Decision No 17 on the detailed conditions for the introduction and re-settlement of poultry holdings. The conditions for the authorisation of establishments have been in place for a long time, and have already been laid down in the Animal Health Code 41/97. It is also included in the FVM Regulation. Using the experience of avian influenza, in particular with regard to partially free-range poultry holdings, the Decision details the conditions and lays down the time limits in such a way as to allow the keeper sufficient flexibility, i.e. the local health authority may grant an extension to the implementation of certain biological protection measures taking into account the epidemiological situation. The fact is that epidemics usually occur in the same place, so we have to make strict rules to force certain keepers to comply with mandatory rules. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time. István Szávay: Add a source to it!]] Because a lot of people are threatened by their irresponsible livestock farming, because when they look at these, they almost always start from the same place.
u2017-05-22-316	I'm afraid I have strict rules to follow, too. It's house rules.
u2017-05-22-317	Thank you, Mr. President. Excuse me.
u2017-05-22-318	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 29 May 2017. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed. Good night, everyone. [[The meeting ended at 10:44 p.m.]]
