u2017-03-20-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 9th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, On behalf of Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MEP Ildikó, on behalf of the MSZP, has applied for a speech before the agenda today. It's an address. Here you go.
u2017-03-20-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, You, who proclaim the sanctity of the family every day, want to interfere with the lives of families and our children with the harshest means, and not for the first time. The Fundamental Law provides for the protection of children, and we also have a Child Protection Act, from which I quote you, Mr Secretary: The protection of children's rights is the duty of any natural and legal person who deals with child rearing, education, care, legal representation and the administration of his affairs. Andy Vajna, the son of his country into America, who is now a billion-dollar offshore knight - as Fidesz called such people in opposition - has received numerous government positions from Viktor Orbán after 2010, became a film government commissioner, gaining on the entire casino industry, making a huge profit thanks to the fact that he does not have to pay taxes. In recent years, he's made billions, and recently, he looks like he's become a child protection specialist. Andy Vajna also received his first authorisation for online casino operations in Hungary, while children are known to be at the greatest risk in the world of the Internet. The government commissioner has put his hands on a lot of things in the media market, from TV2 to countless channels or the Origo Internet News Portal. By examining Vajna's interests in Hungary, atlatszo.hu found a rather extensive network of offshore companies. In view of its numerous economic and political positions, it is no coincidence that he is the fifth most influential person in Hungary, according to a 2016 compilation. It's all thanks to you. Last week, it was published in the press that Andy Vajna wanted to amend the Child Protection Act. According to the news, Andy Vajna and Ágnes Havas, head of the Hungarian National Film Fund, asked on 8 February to modify certain child protection rules by the Ministry of Human Resources. Not for the protection of children. Do you understand, Mr. Secretary? They would like to allow minors to work at night because of the night movies. The Ministry has also prepared a proposal for an amendment to the legislation on guardianship of the employment of minors. According to this, for example, if the child's parents could not agree whether the child should be in the film or not, the guardianship office would make up for the missing parental contribution. Mr. Secretary. What the hell is going on in this Parliament and your ministry? ! How badly do you want to interfere in the lives of families? Under the current rules, a young worker who is not yet 18 years old cannot be worked between 10:00 and 6:00 in the morning. Mr. Secretary. You think that's okay, don't you? While the Ombudsman and we ourselves have initiated the revision and improvement of the child protection system in recent years in a number of cases, in several cases the Ombudsman has requested the wallet to be properly regulated because of abuse in children's homes. According to one investigation, children's personal freedom is being violated in several children's homes. Compared to this, the wallet now works to make the work of minors at night filming legal for Andy Vajna. Thus, while the Ombudsman's requests are repeatedly ignored for years by the social portfolio, he can prepare a legislative amendment that is certainly contrary to the interests of children in days' time. [[An intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: Outrageous!]] In 2014 Zoltán Balog said the following in the presentation of the Secretary-General of State of the Ministry: "The character of the Christian Democrat of the portfolio is very important - is it not, Mr. State Secretary? - to allow value-based governance for the cases that are here. The strategic objective remains to strengthen the mental and physical health of the citizens and communities of Hungary, and this includes strengthening families. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In connection with the cage fight, Bence Rétvári said that he found it intolerable for people to gain financial benefits in jeopardy of children's health. Mr. Secretary. In the last seven years, it has been proven that when it comes to fidestic economic interests, when it comes to providing Fidesz friends to billions, you don't know God, family, country, state secretary. I look forward to your reply, Mr State Secretary, that this law will not be amended, and that the rights of children will not be undermined at the request of Andy Vajna. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-03-20-2	In response, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2017-03-20-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Thank you for specifically mentioning the case of the cage fighter association, as it was an organization that could organize a cage fight for children without protective equipment for years, but it was necessary for the Fidesz-KDNP government to act so that this association would no longer exist today. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Night work!]] [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Night work!]] "Today, such events or combat events cannot be organized, as many have bet on this, and many have benefited from it, not from the entry, but from the reception. But Fidesz-KDNP has tried everywhere, both during the adoption of the criminal code, the adoption of the new civil code and the adoption of all other social legislation, to keep the best interests of children in mind. (Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Night work!) This is why we have had an important vision, in which we have taken substantial steps, the process of so-called disinheritment, so that children who are in a children's home should not stay in such large, many dozens or hundreds of children's homes in the long term, but can come to families and foster parents who may accept more than one child. [[Zoltán Grimlock: The castle is for Lawrence!]] And that's why they're much more likely to grow up under family circumstances. [[Dr. István Józsa: Night filming?]] Of course, this task could have been done by the governments in front of us, but it was not important for them to do so in the interests of children, they maintained the ageless system that has been being renewed since 2010 and for which we also devote a good part of our European Union resources, so that the number of these children who are in large foster homes will be reduced as much as possible, and we hope that such children over the age of 12 will not be able to remain in such institutions in the long term, but will be sent to families. In implementing this, I believe that we have taken very important steps. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Authorization of guardianship is required for separate living parents if parents cannot decide one or more important questions about their child, and obviously it is in the child's interest to make such a decision sooner or later. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Night work!]] [[13.10]] That is why the guardianship never interferes with matters, and we really keep the tax authority away from families, because it is the income from outside the tax system that is being used to educate the child, and we believe that the guardianship should not interfere in these matters unless parents are able to deal with it for the sake of the child, and that is when the guardianship needs to be helped. On the basis of which you have expressed this rather daunting speech, it is a proposal or a proposal of this kind, which may have come up in some circles, but which has not been decided by the government. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Won't he?]] there was no bill on Parliament's table. You're a very high-pitched voice here, yelling in front of Parliament's agenda. [[Dr. István Józsa: Na-na-na! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: We are talking about children, Mr. Secretary of State.]] What's happening here in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Such a proposal is not on Parliament's agenda, it is not included here in the series of proposals, nor in the proposals submitted, so I am very sorry that you are in addition to such news as if such a bill were here; there is no such bill on Parliament's table. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] However, it was a proposal that introduced a family-type tax system to support families, which left an average of 244 thousand forints in a Hungarian family last year alone. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] He did not withdraw so many taxes, so many contributions, but left this proposal with the families, but the Socialist Party could not support it at any level here in Parliament. (Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes. ) Nor did he support the fact that the introduction of free textbooks is becoming easier for more and more families, which is already 1-4th grade, but this was not supported by the socialists for the benefit of children. They also did not support, but rather attack, when we introduce holidays, also during spring, autumn or winter holidays; or when against your 29 billion, after which, I think, socialist representatives could only sneak out of Parliament with their eyes closed when it comes to this, we will already spend 74 billion forints this year. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] social meals for children. You supported organisations that attacked the legislation on which the Erzsébet programme was based in international forums and the system from which we were able to take 400 thousand students, young people, for free or for a symbolic amount, for 500 HUF, for 1000 HUF, for a week vacation in Balaton or another. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] You were rooting for and agreeing with those who attacked the foundation [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] who wanted to withdraw this budget line, who wanted to take this cover away from the children. You supported them. [[Dr. István Józsa and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervene.]] and not the Hungarian children, honourable Member. In fact, let us remember that when it was your government, even that donation was taxed. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Secretary of State, did Andy Vajna or not ask for night work?]] which was offered to charity foundations. Then somehow, it wasn't so important to you to the children. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] We saw that they were still preparing for tax increases, even now, with László Botka or without László Botka, this is always the same Socialist Party, which is not paying attention to children, but is focused on the interests of international companies, and who, by the way, is under the control of Andy Vajna's casino concessions every time (Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.) extended. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Agnes Kunhalmi: The ceiling is breaking!]]
u2017-03-20-4	I thank the Secretary of State for his patience. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, may I have your attention, please? I'll explain the house rules. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The part of the House Rule on the pre-meeting agenda is about [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] so that you and your fellow Members can express their views on a specific matter. This is not a genre of questioning, it is in another place in the house rules: interpellation, immediate question or question can be asked to the members of the government. If you didn't have enough time to think about what you wanted to ask you in the five minutes that you had at your disposal, then I would ask you to spend more time the next time you spoke before the agenda and not to yell into the Chamber of Parliament, which you forgot to ask. Goodbye. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Don't lecture me, Mr. President.]] Act like Mr. Józsa said next to you. [[Lajos Korózs applauds.]] And now, before the agenda, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, is there a limit to the political irresponsibleness of the government and the misdirection of the public? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-20-5	No. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. Thank you very much for speaking after Secretary of State Bence Rétvári; he spoke of vegetables, I am talking about vegetables, namely vegetable consumption and its background in Hungary. Research at the University of Debrecen has recently been published, where it has been quite clear that the domestic vegetable sector, including cultivated mushrooms, has issued 1.8 and 2.1 million tonnes annually in the period after EU accession and has since shown a downward trend. With a downward trend in recent years, the situation of their production in Hungary continued to deteriorate in 2014 and 2015 and it can be said that in Hungary we can now look at approximately two thirds of canned raw material and vegetable raw material that are coming out of agriculture for the period after EU accession. The Hungarian vegetable market collapsed. In practice, the production of Hungarian products is constantly decreasing, and accordingly there are fewer and fewer such products on the Hungarian shelves as well. This is not said by us, but by researchers at the University of Debrecen, because it is what is said a lot of times in Parliament, and in the last month there has been a lot of talk, food safety and food quality, to a significant extent, about what is placed on the table of citizens. This is interesting because, quite clearly, there is now a lot of research to support the link between the consumption of fruit and vegetables and nutrition in general and early death. It was published by the British research institute Imperial College, where it was able to fully parallel the culture of vegetable and fruit consumption in different countries with the risk of cancer and heart disease. In Hungary, Hungarian production has decreased, but consumption has also decreased. About this means that in terms of consumption in Hungary we consume less than half as many vegetables as in 2000 compared to 217 kilos per person, which one citizen ate from vegetables and fruit, after 2014 we have lost 106 kilos. This is interesting, because obviously, if we are talking about food quality and food safety, the Hungarian government needs to face the fact that it is not enough to show it abroad. During today's meeting in the Committee on Agriculture, I had the pleasure of discussing food quality with my fellow Fidesz Members, and to my surprise we received a very useful and valuable preparation material - I'm sorry, I didn't mean to illustrate it, but don't get angry, Mr President - this is the recurring problem of dual food quality in some EU countries. It has been included in the preparation materials since 2011 as to what type of food safety problems there are. Compared to this, Fidesz-KDNP has covered this problem until the Slovaks have taken it out and it has not become an EU problem. After it came out to the Slovaks, it turned out that Hungary has been researching this topic through Nébihen for almost a year; it is true that it is quite symbolic, since it can examine 12 products out of every thousand products and begins to point out the food safety and quality problem, which, by the way, has been completely clear to everyone for 5-6 years. The question now is that if Hungarian production and the Hungarian food industry, including the Hungarian canned industry, have collapsed because of the poor production structure that Fidesz-KDNP's support policy has led to, how does Fidesz-KDNP want to face the problem that arises in this area. Here's the answer: it doesn't. To date, no amendments to a ministerial decree, no amendments to a government decree, no amendments to any legislation or legislation have been made to the House or anywhere else, no mention of this in the Hungarian Gazette from the ministerial proposals. [[13.20]] On the other hand, today, when the May Other is Politics, trying to do the work that thousands of staff cannot do in the FM, it puts a parliamentary resolution proposal before the Committee on Agriculture, which the committee does not take into consideration as a series of subjects, because it says that there is no need for legislative intervention to change this trend in Hungary. [[Sándor Font: That's not what we said!]] I know that the committee said that the adjective is the Csányi Sándorok. So I know what he said, but it wasn't really relevant, because there was no adjective of the "Csányi Sándorok" but only a plural noun, but this is a different question. Obviously, the question is, why is it that if the MSZPs are pushed down, Alexander Font can be yelled at, but he doesn't know because he didn't hear it because he just gave us a push-off? The question is, therefore, obviously whether the Fidesz-KDNP and the government take concrete measures to bring healthy food to the table of Hungarian consumers, which also strengthens Hungarian agriculture, the Hungarian agricultural sector and gives us the opportunity to restore our vegetable consumption system, which has been reduced by more than half, and to put high quality Hungarian foods on the table of Hungarian consumers. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-03-20-6	Mr. Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2017-03-20-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, My apologies for saying this, but I see you've been talking seven or six times in your nerves or frustration over the last five minutes, it's hard enough to get what you wanted to say out of this. It's probably because, as you said, at today's Agriculture Committee meeting, your motion was not accepted. It's not my fault. Honourable Congressman, You were talking about food safety, food quality, in this context the double standard in the food sector, which large multi-companies commit to the markets in Western Europe and Eastern Europe. Just to inform the National Assembly: in the autumn of 2014, the National Food Chain Safety Office carried out a comparative study involving 24 products, which was carried out in Austria and in Hungary among products of the same brand of multinational companies. We can say from the experience of this that the vast majority of these products were of different quality and of different composition. It's safe to say that some of the products were of inferior quality. This was then indicated by the government to the EU's authorities, both in the Agriculture and Fisheries Council and in other fora. In Slovakia, the Czech Republic, the Central and Eastern European countries, the Food Safety Authority has also been examined, and the results of their recent investigation clearly demonstrate what we have said, that there is a double standard within the European Union in the field of food quality, that multinational companies produce and sell other better-quality foods in Western Europe, such as, say, Hungary. On 20 February, Minister Sándor Fazekas ordered an investigation into nearly 100 products, a hundred food parties, which will soon be completed, and if we can keep up with the deadline, we will be able to inform all of you, Parliament, buyers and the public about what results have been achieved next week. During this test, we examine spices, alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, canned foods, frozen and confectionery products and dairy products. In addition, on 2 March there was an extraordinary V4 summit, where prime ministers from the V4 countries sent a strong signal to the European Commission. In addition, on 6 March the European Union's Agriculture and Fisheries Council re-convened. This Council dealt with the problem of dual foods for a joint Hungarian and Slovak proposal, which was also proposed by the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Romania, Bulgaria, Greece and Croatia. What we can say is that now it is not the Eastern European countries alone or Hungary that are struggling to obtain the right quality of food for Hungarian customers, but the eight Member States, which represent almost one fifth of the population of the European Union. Honourable Congressman, On the 15th of March, the National Food Chain Security Office was established five years ago. During these five years, the Nebih carried out nearly 12 million laboratory tests. The National Food Chain Safety Office has identified tax and VAT evasion of HUF 9.5 billion, and the National Food Chain Safety Office has launched over half a dozen awareness-raising campaigns to improve the quality of Hungarian food. In addition, we are constantly changing the requirements of the Hungarian Food Book, and we are tightening it up in order to increase the quality of food products that are placed on the market in Hungary. The National Food Chain Safety Office also publishes every month a test result that helps Hungarian customers to obtain high-quality food. I would like to inform Parliament that in 2015 and 2016 the Ministry of Agriculture announced a programme for the year of the local product. In the framework of this, for example, more than a hundred small local producers were able to introduce themselves at the OMEK before last year, to present their product, which they produced, and after the government change in 2010, legislative modification proposals were made that triple the number of local producer markets and doubled the number of local producers. In recent years, the government has taken a lot of measures to bring healthy, safe, high-quality food to the table of Hungarian families. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-8	From the ranks of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Imre Vejkey asked for the floor before the agenda: "Strasbourg v. Hungary. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-20-9	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 13 March 2017, the Communists and the Greens initiated an EU review of the Hungarian legal border closure before the European Commission in Brussels. At the same time, the Greek and Bulgarian EU Commissioners threatened to withdraw Hungarian EU support in case we do not change our migration policy, i.e. if we do not allow illegal immigrants in. The next day, i.e. on 14 March 2017, the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights condemned Hungary in the case of two Bangladeshi men who were represented by the Hungarian Helsinki Committee on all these forums as the main attacker of Hungarian migration policy. Ladies and Gentlemen, We're the ones who've been wiped out, and we're the ones who follow the law. Ladies and Gentlemen, Allow me to quote from the pastor's encyclical of the second Vatican Council, beginning with the beginning of Gaudium et spes. The future is therefore ours, Hungarians, because as the achievements of centuries, we represent human dignity and freedom organically developed from Christian-Christian roots, not just the supposed control star invented by global power and bag bearers, which brings more anxiety and hopelessness instead of the unlimited human freedom they promise. So the future is ours, Hungarians', not Brussels or Strasbourg's. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Or Putin's!]] which represents the interests of the global dictatorship by walking the path of the proletariat dictatorship to Lenin. So they are the ones who want to silence him from the people that their deep heart suggests. They are the ones who make shameful decisions, blackmailing free nations. They are the ones who view Jesus as just a political liberator who lost him. They are the ones who have turned the scene of the European spirit into a ruin field. They are the ones who have taken the central worldview of humanism, which focuses specifically on individual humans, in the distorted direction that strong individuals realize their desires, for which the other people are all to be used and to be thrown away after use. Finally, the proliferation of the above concept in the West led to the fact that people, the majority of people, slowly no longer know what another person means to him, and do not want to endure the mystery of man and woman. [[13.30]] They are the ones who launched the total attack on the spiritual will left to us 2,000 years ago and held it against us. So they must be stopped! Ladies and Gentlemen, The European Court of Human Rights is an intolerable extension of the decision in Strasbourg because its extended interpretation is as deep as possible in violation of the competences of Hungary as a sovereign state. Behind the judgment in Strasbourg, the interests of global power forces and groups lie, and ultimately, the plan of the European United States, whose main obstacle is seen in the strong national identity of the European indigenous population, which is artificially intended to be dissolved by the European species. For today, therefore, we have come to the conclusion that, for all of this, the Strasbourg Court is no longer acting secretly, but openly, as an independent sovereign against the states which have acknowledged the submission. It's intolerable. Strasbourg walked into Hungarian sovereignty. Therefore, it is time to reflect on the resolution of the submission to the Human Rights Convention itself, or at least on the suspension of certain points of the Convention. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-20-10	On behalf of the government, Mr Pál Völner is responding. Here you go.
u2017-03-20-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In fact, the judgment of 14 March 2017 was given under the pretext of two illiterate immigrants' applications, who waited for their application in a transit zone. I would like to stress that the procedure was in full compliance with the Fundamental Law and the relevant Hungarian internal legislation, and that regulation was born in the light of the contexts of the Dublin Convention and the Schengen Convention. So Hungary acted legally. Of course, we will appeal against the judgment to the Grand Chamber, where a judicial panel of five will re-examine the case. I consider it important to point out that, pursuant to Article 72 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the area of freedom, security and justice to which they wanted to enter is without prejudice to the exercise of the powers of the Member States relating to the maintenance of public order or the safeguarding of internal security. It is also important to mention that the Procedural Directive 2013/32/EU of the Parliament and of the Council on common procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection allows the Union and certain Member States to establish a list of countries which wish to be classified as safe third countries of origin from an asylum point of view. This is important because if immigrants do not come from a country where this safe status can be established, their asylum applications really need to be dealt with. But it was also included in the legislative package that Hungary considers Serbia to be such a safe state, on which the experience of the past years is sufficient. The Union cooperates with Serbia in building and developing its asylum institutions and conducting association negotiations. I would also stress that, through Greece, Serbia is usually reached by these immigrants, which are members of the Schengen area, an EU Member State. I would also like to point out that with Turkey, the Member States of the Union have concluded an agreement whereby illegal immigrants will be taken back by Turkey. If Turkey were not a safe country, this convention would obviously not have been possible. This is why it is incomprehensible to us that, when we assessed and decided against the request of immigrants waiting in the established transit zone, Strasbourg dealt with this in substance, in the sense that despite the disappearance of those concerned, the entrusted NGO - or rather, I say, a CSO - is constantly seeking these opportunities to sue Hungary - made a decision to ignore the facts and the legal environment that Hungary did not guarantee the rights of these immigrants in accordance with the Convention. It is also a very important question, of course, what is immigration, what is a refugee issue. These legal concepts are not clear in these procedures either. We make a sharp distinction between the immigration issue and the refugee issue, while in Western Europe, Strasbourg and Brussels, these issues have been treated as virtually a refugee issue up to now. It can be seen that the latest legislation on border closure has not received criticism in the Council, so the Hungarian position is gradually adopted by the Member States. However, this does not mean that the Commission, or Strasbourg, is willing to interpret the existing situation legally, rather than making decisions or criticisms along the lines of the previous political mainstream, on the basis of liberal principles. Overall, Hungary will continue to insist on its compliance with European standards and human rights, and we hope that an appropriate decision will be taken before the Grand Chamber. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-20-12	János Volner, leader of the Jobbik faction, also applied for a speech before the agenda: The Jobbik launches the landlord in 2018. It's an address. Here you go.
u2017-03-20-13	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, One thing we know for sure: according to reports from various corruption research organisations, HUF 400 billion is stolen annually in Hungary in connection with corruption transactions, this is the amount that disappears each year, primarily through the public procurement system and, secondly, through the system of European Union funds. It's just the direct damage, the indirect damage is not yet included. What can anyone who reads newspapers every day be confronted with, listening to the radio, watching TV? One thing can be seen: in Hungary, those who have good relations with the governing party and with the Prime Minister himself will grow as quickly as possible. Lőrinc Mészáros has increased his wealth two thousand to five hundred times since he approved his relationship with Viktor Orbán since their close relationship. Tibor Garancsi runs a similar course. Andy Vajna was provided several times by the pro-government faction, thus providing money to the casino billionaire. However, it is important to see that, with no small part fidesz parliamentary aid, corruption has been legitimized by the government, and by law it has ensured that friendly entrepreneurs can be helped in this way. In order to get what cannot be recovered by being cleared, it is necessary to find a solution within the tax system, but it is important that what is possible must be recovered first and foremost by being accounted for. How does Jobbik consider the tax system to be transformed? That's what Gábor Vona talked about on Train18. On the 18th of every month Gábor Vona tells us what measures he will take in 2018 when he goes to the Jobbik government, he will practically announce a new point of programme to the public. We have defined the need to introduce the landlord in Hungary, that is, the kind of tax that applies to entrepreneurs who have acquired assets from politics, the wealth growth of businesses with political backwinds, and politicians themselves. It is necessary to ensure that these people contribute to public burdens and, in a very ordinary way, to tax Lőrinc Mészáros, Tibor Garancsi, Andy Vajna and so-called businessmen like them, in order to lose a significant proportion of their assets in a few years, thereby increasing the budget. [[Lajos Kósa: What about the cemeteries?]] It is important to see that more than once normal entrepreneurs are threatened by similar initiatives. For example, what the MSZP announced is that everyone who makes good money in Hungary will be subject to this tax - they have come up with a similar idea - it is simply a Bolshevik tempo. [[13.40]] We, the right-wingers, do not want to tax attic sweeps, not all successful people, as the left is planning to do, we would like to extend this tax system specifically to those close to the political, political, and political entrepreneurs. Normal entrepreneurs will not be affected by this tax measure. It is important to see that the increase in wealth acquired in this period needs to be examined backwards until 2002 and to ensure that these so-called policy-to-policy entrepreneurs lose a significant share of their assets thanks to a reformed tax system. It is also important to see that this tax should be introduced in a progressive way: the greater the increase in these people's wealth by 2002, the greater the tax burden should be, so as to ensure that this money is returned to the Hungarian budget, and not to increase the oligarchs, but to be used for beneficial, normal goals that promote society, and to be used for them. It is also necessary to see that with this tax type, Hungary's public burden can be made much fairer, because we can ensure that those who have so far been unfairly engaged exclusively in personal political relations will be reclaimed by the state in this way, and that we should contribute to the need to pay smaller taxes to others. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-20-14	On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör.
u2017-03-20-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, If Jobbik really considers the protection of public funds and accountability important, then they will clarify, let's say, three cases: above all, the VAT fraud scandals around Jobbik, how a significant part of Jobbik's group funds goes to a mysterious consultant, and also how a mayor who is allied with Jobbik got real estate with tricks so that even the home mafia could envy it. Dear Chief of Staff, With this speech, it proves that the left-wing turn of Jobbik is on the move, and they really do not have a single speech that is a little different from any one of the left-wing or LMP speeches. The last time we saw a similar stunt from SZDSZ was when the former anti-communists joined forces with the successor party in 1994. We've come to the point now that Agent D-209 and Agnes Heller himself would work with you, which is quite an achievement. [[Dóra Dúró: Viktor Orbán was Vice President of the Liberal International in 2000!]] It is typical that Mr Z. Karpat, last week, was able to say that he preferred the activities of socialist-liberal governments to the present one. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Really? Are you really crying back the IMF loans, the 7 percent economic downturn? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Foreign currency loans, eyeballs? 36 percent sja, robbery privatisation, 12 percent unemployment or the aid-based economy? Is that really what they're crying back to? Well, what has become of Jobbik, let me ask you. The big left-wing turn is also reflected in concrete cases, and they are becoming more spectacularly flattered to the left, so Jobbik did not support the anti-quota constitutional amendment. [[György Szilágyi: We didn't support him because of your dirty money! Your boss's dirty money!]] That is why they pulled themselves out of the referendum campaign, which is why the party president did not vote for the tax reduction measures at the end of last year, and therefore applauded the fact that the left, together with the SZDSZ babies, had stabbed the Olympic tender in the back. It is no coincidence, either, in this House, that Jobbik does not put forward a candidate in the mid-election in Zugló to push the left-wing candidate. [[Lajos Kósa: That's right!]] The Members in front of me know very well that Szentendren tried the same thing, and that experiment failed badly. Dear Chief of Staff, With regard to future plans, I mean Jobbike, it is also clear that Jobbik is also making a strong left in the matter of tax increases, joining those who have one mania without any substance or thought, and this is the tax increase. The MSZP would turn income tax into a multi-key and abolish family tax incentives, and Jobbik would tax farmers very much. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Not farmers, but thieves!]] It's just a shame because I showed you last week the Jobbik 2014 election program, in which Jobbik demanded a great deal of land distribution. As is well known, during the current government, about 30,000 farmers were brought to land, and they would now be taxed to death by Jobbik, thus creating the great rainbow coalition with the left for the tax increase. Dear Chief of Staff, Everyone now has the right to ask why this is the case. Why, in his views, a former national party, a party that had previously considered Gergely Pongráz as a role model, fell apart. [[György Szilágyi: Say one true sentence in five minutes.]] First of all, because the Jobbik was a political servant of an oligarch, that is the case. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Don't worry about the Jobbik, worry about yourself.]] A political servant who no longer believes in anything but money and power, a political servant who, although unable to show performance, tries to counterbalance it with unprecedented aggression. That's why it's possible that the consultants certified by SZDS can have a bigger word than anyone in front of me. [[Dóra Dúró: What SZDSZ economic advisor?]] Come on. That's when a couple's soul is sold, and they don't even ask much for it. [[György Szilágyi: A true sentence please!]] In any case, may I suggest one thing, Your Honour...
u2017-03-20-16	Congressman, stop yelling at me, please.
u2017-03-20-17	Let me suggest one thing...
u2017-03-20-18	Don't yell at me, please. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-20-19	Let me suggest one thing... thank you for the floor, Mr President. If you are so attached to the increase in taxes, we suggest that, above all, you tax your new owner and not the Hungarian families, do not continue where the left left left off. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-20	Believe me, my good fellow Members, that you need to hear me out, no less self-control than I do for you. [[Dóra Dúró: They were shouting too!]] We are taking the floor before the last agenda. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of Group, on behalf of Fidesz:. Incapable, outrageous judgment in Strasbourg against Hungary! He asked for a word with an address. And, Congressman, if you can't keep quiet, you need to step outside and calm down in the hallway. It's up to Team Leader.
u2017-03-20-21	Mr. President. Dear House, At the time when Hungary joined the European Union, we believed that it was a community in which the rule of law is general, binding on everyone, and with minimum legal and political consequences, a system with some kind of consistency. It is a great disappointment to us that we are increasingly seeing signs that the Union cannot solve an extremely important problem that threatens its existence, the migration crisis, and rather than experimenting with the solution, the Union and its institutions are increasingly giving up the rule of law, law, order and consistency rather than otherwise dealing with the crisis. In the case of migration, Hungary is trying very hard to comply with EU legislation, the measures on Schengen conventions, which cost hundreds of billions of forints - I can now safely say to us - when we try to protect the Union's southern borders and try to maintain the order that the Union has agreed together in accordance with the Dublin conventions. In comparison, the procedures of the Hungarian authorities have stood the test of time in practice. We have received many compliments from EU co-governments on how we try to comply with these conventions - humanity, patience, help, but consistency. Compared to this, it was shocking that the European Court of Human Rights has taken a decision on two young people in Bangladesh that ignores all existing principles of law, those on which the European Union and even European law rely. If we give up these principles, the rule of law will cease not only in the EU but also in Europe. It is generally accepted that no one can gain undue benefits by failing to comply with the legislation applicable to him. Nobody! If the Greeks do not comply with the Schengen conventions, if they do not comply with the Dublin Conventions, they cannot benefit from their rights and others may not suffer a legal disadvantage. Compared to this, the Strasbourg Committee condemned Hungary in the case of two young men in Bangladesh, who, by the way, we do not know where they are anymore, by claiming that Hungary had otherwise deported them to Serbia, a safe country negotiating accession with the European Union, which, in this sense, is not true again, because these people were allowed to leave Serbia. [[13.50]] This threatened to bring them back to Greece, where they might threaten their personal security or receive inhuman treatment. This judgment can only be accepted if, by the way, Greece is initiated to exclude it from NATO, the Schengen Convention and the European Union - then we understand. We understand that, but since no one has initiated the exclusion of the Greeks, this judgment will break all existing European principles of law, it will go against the construction we call European law. That can't be done by a court of your own accord. They can do this in one case, if they have long given up their position as judges, and we say that the body that is in Strasbourg is a political consultative body who makes different decisions, because this decision is not a legal decision, this decision is a political decision, absolutely clear. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right! It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The lineup also reflects this, and the agents of the Soros-funded organizations went there to protect two young men from Bangladesh, who we have not known since then where they are to sue the Hungarian state. This is all about European migration-friendly politicians and political organisations trying to turn against Hungary or prevent Hungary from protecting Europe and protecting Hungary. This is a shame, it will lead to the death of European law [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This is therefore unacceptable and must not in any way be left without comment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-22	On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör is once again responding.
u2017-03-20-23	Dear Chief of Staff, The judgment of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg is outrageous, it is a crazy judgment, and the government will, of course, initiate a review. Let's see the facts. The Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg ordered Hungary to compensate for the alleged violation of the rights of two Bangladeshi immigrants. And with regard to the verdict, there are a number of circumstances that make you throw a backside and then throw another back. First of all, the two Bangladeshi immigrants did not leave their country because of a military conflict, but, as one of them said, because they wanted to start a new life. So they themselves said that it was economic immigration. By the way, they've been through several safe countries. Secondly, the justification also included the inhumane conditions in the transit zone, as the two migrants justified, had no access to television, internet, fixed telephone or any recreational activity. So TV and the Internet are fundamental rights when it comes to immigrants. Thirdly, the court's justification also included the risk that the return of the two immigrants would be treated inhumanely in Greece. Understand: Strasbourg fears immigrants from an EU Member State. For the fourth time, and perhaps this is the most outrageous, the representation of the two men from the beginning was carried out by the Hungarian Helsinki Committee. This is the Helsinki Committee, which receives most of its support from abroad, including from a Soros network foundation that only sent 114 million in 2015; Brussels supported them by HUF 175 million. [[An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Outrageous!]] In comparison, in the same year, the same organization had a hat of about one million forints from the 1 percent offerings, so it would not work at all without foreign resources. In order to make this even more outrageous, the people protecting immigrants have received a million dollars in litigation. These also show that there are, in fact, not two immigrants behind the judgment, but an activist group funded from abroad, which is part of the Soros network. This is an open attack on Hungary and against Hungarian immigration policy. Hungary has, by the way, rejected its asylum application to about 10,000 immigrants since 2015, with around 5600 people in custody, so we need to assess the amount of expenditure the government would incur if foreign activists were to bring similar lawsuits against Hungary in all similar cases. Surely, this could cost many tens of billions. To sum it all up, there is a Union that does not protect its borders and even distributes quotas to immigrants. There are immigrants who cheat EU legislation, and there are groups who call themselves defenders, who encourage immigrants to break the law, report Hungary, and even look for it. You're really fucking nuts! And who's gonna pay for everything? Of course, the citizens, the Hungarian families. Dear House, This is how a bizarre coalition is created between smugglers, international defenders and certain bureaucrats in Brussels. This is another reason why the government should consult the Hungarians on this matter in a national consultation. The support of all Hungarians is needed to enable the government to act effectively against the failed immigration policy in Brussels. Looking at the decision of the Strasbourg court, the hardest part of the fight is just coming. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-24	Dear House, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2017-03-20-25	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Editing Sebestyén, Jobbik. Speaking before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Ágnes Kunhalmi, MSZP; János Latorcai, KDNP; István Németh, Fidesz; István Szávay, Jobbik. He applied for a speech after the agenda tomorrow: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; István Szávay, Jobbik.
u2017-03-20-26	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. On this basis, the motion put forward by the President initiates the V/14405 on the use of EU funds for Hungary for the period 2014-2020. The Parliament will discuss the political debate in a four-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. At the request of the Fidesz, KDNP, Jobbik and LMP groups, the house rule is 37. Paragraph 4 states that the time frame available to the political group will be doubled in the event of the adoption of a time-frame negotiation. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the motion to split the time frame.
u2017-03-20-27	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed timeframe, in view of the timeframe increases, is as follows: 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group, with a doubling in total of 164 minutes; 45 minutes for the MSZP Group; 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group, with a doubling in total of 82 minutes; 38 minutes for the KDNP Group, with a doubling in total of 76 minutes; 24 minutes for the LMP Group, with a doubling in total of 48 minutes; and 10 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2017-03-20-28	Dear House, Now it's time for the decision. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that the proposal will be dealt with in a time frame modified by the notary and at the request of Fidesz, KDNP, Jobbik and LMP. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The proposal for a time frame was adopted by 124 votes in favour, 19 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the amendments to the agenda. The Fidesz Group proposed that on Tuesday's meeting on Forest, Forest Protection and Forestry, 2009, XXXVII. T/14461 on the amendment of law and other related laws The general discussion of bill No 1 should not take place. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group proposed that, on Tuesday's meeting, the 2011 CXCVI on the free ownership of state-owned property and national assets. T/14464. The general discussion of bill No 1 should not take place. Anyone who agrees with that, please also indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has also adopted this proposal. [[14.00]] Further, the Fidesz Group proposed that, at today's meeting, the 1997 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment. T/13849 amending Act T/13849 concerning the extension of the simple notification to the non-commercial construction of residential immovable property of more than 300 square metres LXVIII of 2016 on excise duty to discuss the Commission's reports and the summary amendment proposal. T/14245 amending Act No. Following the discussion of the Commission's reports on the legislative proposal No 1 and the summary amendment proposal. Who could follow this and agree with him [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks.]] Please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I find that the visible majority of this House has also accepted this. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please also vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated Economic Committee to ask B/14314 on the operation in 2015 of organisations exercising ownership rights on behalf of the State, on the evolution of the stock of state assets, on the processes of government wealth management. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I note that the proposal was adopted by 112 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Now, at 2:14 a.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: What are you doing to relieve the worsening wage tension? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-20-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to point out that I think that we are both interested in solving the problem. What is the reason I brought this problem here? In the social sector, the unworthy situation that has developed over the years, all the more so, because I have seen it possible to remedy the problems in the last year, because it is also a service that can be considered as a so-called hungaricum, and last year we remembered this activity in a ceremony, which is being carried out by women in Hungary today. But it seemed to me that the government's intention only spread to the point of celebrating and declaring the activities of the patronesses to be Hungaricum. This would have been the opportunity to clean up wages and salaries once and for all. Look, I am not saying that I have brought in these demonstrative letters, which I myself and Congresswoman Hiller and Bango have received during the last week from the women in charge - this is half of the letters that have arrived at our parliamentary secretariat - in which they consider the proceedings against them to be unworthy. Several refer to the fact that, for example, there is a difference of minimum wage between the salary of a professional with a higher education degree who has worked in the service for 20-25 years, there is a difference of more than 100,000 forints. I would also like to advance the fact that they are breaking down, the women in charge are clearly falling apart, despite the fact that they have a higher education degree compared to those with a similar education, such as health professionals. After all, it is clear from these letters that the career-starter and the 20-year-old woman with work relationship receive practically the same wage, and often the senior officer in charge, who takes responsibility for almost the same salary, should take responsibility for her group or the professional group she directs, as a professional working under it. Not to mention that those who have been active in the basic care have, without a doubt, the financial framework with which to ensure operation with smaller or larger constraints is in place in the financing of the basic supply, but the law requires that 12 percent of the total amount can be paid. That's why I'm asking the Secretary of State why they don't pay the women in charge properly. When do they raise their women's wages? Why don't you guarantee that the service providers will fully [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] pay them along with the wage supplements and basically lease their income? Thank you very much.
u2017-03-20-30	Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer.
u2017-03-20-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What I ask of you, Congressman, is that you ask us for what we have done, not what we have inherited from you. [[Zoltán Grimlock: When was that, you? Ouch!]] In 2010, you spent HUF 17 billion on protective service. We now spend 25 billion HUF 28 million, i.e. 7 billion HUF 63 million more on protective services than you have spent. [[Zoltán Grumpy: To the Bottom!]] That it would be good if this were an even higher level of increase, we agree. That we have to continue this raise, we agree. Just, honourable Member, do not forget that there was a certain situation from which this government was able to start, not only in the case of women in charge, but also in the case of teachers, because teachers have barely survived - like nurses or doctors - the loss of their monthly wages, and that is when we had to start the teaching career. [[Zoltán Pride: Come on!]] , which has indeed increased the wages of teachers by 50 percent; or in the case of nurses whose salaries we are able to increase by 65 percent in the next few years, in the previous year, in the following two years; or in the case of specialists whose salaries we can raise by HUF 207 thousand in total last year and this year; or in the case of those working in the cultural sphere, where we can also give a 15% increase in wages to those working in public institutions this year. In addition, we have started raising salaries for primary care workers, including those working as a protector. Allow me to break down this HUF 7 billion to some extent, how and how we managed to do this by raising the fee and raising the financing fee. The women in charge are slightly similar to the general practitioners, so not according to a wage bill, as we say, teachers, but as general practitioners, the individual service providers receive funding. This funding will be increased by the State and this funding will provide additional wages for nurses. We started in 2012 by increasing the points at that time, increasing a point value from 279 to 315 HUF, which was a 14 percent increase in funding. In 2013, we continued the monthly funding of the territorial protection services, with an average of 13 800 HUF. In 2014, we provided another HUF 1.75 billion as an additional resource. This meant 28 400 forints per month in the services of regional women, which was also a 9.6% increase. In 2016, from HUF 10+2+2 billion last year, we provided HUF 10 billion in basic care for general practitioners, HUF 2 billion for dentists, and HUF 2 billion for patrons, for protection services. It was a real problem, which the Member quoted from these letters, but not precisely that the services did not fully use this amount to increase the pay of the women in charge. It is not so, honourable Member, as you said that there was a maximum of 12 per cent available, but there was a previous minimum level of 12 per cent, but last year we increased this by amending legislation - not by amending legislation, but by amending regulations, but by making clear amendments to legislation - to 100 per cent, i.e. the total amount of HUF 2 billion that we provided as an additional resource last year was to be used to increase the pay of women in full. I think this increase of HUF 17 billion from HUF 965 million to HUF 25 billion is a tangible step forward. A legislative amendment has been made which does not allow service providers to quasi-ingeste these increases, but should be fully passed on to women working in primary care and doing really very important work. With training programmes and additional support, we will continue to help the situation of women in charge. In the coming years, too, we can promise that, as we have increased the funding of women's services to a large extent by more than HUF 7 billion each year, we will continue this in the coming years, and they will not have to be afraid of what they might fear in health care. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] those in education who lose a month's wages. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.10]]
u2017-03-20-32	I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2017-03-20-33	Mr President, I cannot accept the answer. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why?]] All the more so, because you did not answer the question, Secretary of State, about what you will do to relieve wage tension. Clearly, there is a very serious migration from this professional area. This morning, I listened to a report with the President of the Alliance in a radio broadcast, and it was clear that today there are nearly 400 places that are not filled by the female defender, and in addition a thousand - says the president of the Alliance - that there are a thousand places or functions that are difficult to fill. Thank God, the patronesses also go to give birth; the patronesses can also be sick, here the replacements need to be solved and there is no capacity, no human resources. And the lack of human resources is clearly due to insufficient wages, and these wage tensions cannot be resolved by the government. I don't accept your answer. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-03-20-34	I ask this House whether it accepts the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 109 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Editor Sebestyén, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Andy, Godfather, do you need to break the law? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2017-03-20-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Recently, news has been released that Andy Vajna and Ágnes Havas contacted the Ministry of Human Resources on 8 February to amend certain child protection laws for the purpose of film shooting this month. They encountered legal obstacles on two issues. One is that it is not possible to deviate from the rule that a minor under the age of 18 cannot be employed between 10 a.m. and 6 a.m. The other is whether if parents cannot agree on whether or not the child can appear in public, the guardianship office can make a decision on the matter. Professionally, they're both highly questionable. In the opinion of experts, the physical and mental development of the child is threatened by night work, regardless of the type of task involved. And the other initiative is objectionable to the sanctity of ethics, moral and private life, that in such a situation the authority, a film factory, a producer or even a medium, at the request of a third party, is so drastically interfering in the life of a family and making decisions despite the protest of one parent. There are many critical comments on the current child protection legislation, in many cases from field professionals to the government and even to me as opposition policy-makers. There are a lot of these that are correct and really need to be changed. These proposals, although supported professionally, will be swept off the table by the government and the Ministry. On the other hand, would the cigar godfather, the tax-exempted film and casino baron, just whistle one whistle and change the regulation in his interest? Dear Secretary of State, Given your response to the question before the Socialist agenda, I would like to ask you a specific question: whether such a request has been made to the Ministry of Human Resources, because we are aware that there is currently such a draft legislation, and there is no such amendment proposal before the Parliament. My question, therefore, is whether such a request has been received, whether it has actually been considered or whether it has been dealt with by the Ministry, whether it has been discussed. I would also like to ask you whether it is appropriate for you to put children at risk for a film production or to restrict parents in exercising their rights; and I would also ask whether, in view of this, you are willing to submit to the will of the Lord. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-20-36	Once again, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2017-03-20-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, the almost literal match between the right-wing interpellation and the speech before the MSZP agenda is striking. [[Uproar and interruptions in the benches of Jobbik and MSZP. Nándor Gúr: He doesn't know what he's saying!]] I do not know if you will receive it from the same place or from the same place, honourable Member, honourable Member. I'm sure... [[Intercoms in the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2017-03-20-38	Gentlemen. Gentlemen. What's the fuss about? Relax. Secretary of State, continue.
u2017-03-20-39	Thank you again, but it is striking how similarly the two opposition parties are flying. Well, honourable Member, what we have seen is that you are always paying close attention to Andy Vajna, and since this government succeeded five to six years ago in a slot business that seems to have been very, very close to you for some reason, but to beat you up, and not to let social support be thrown into the slot machines at once, well, you have been very blowing at Andy Vajna ever since. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: There are more slot machines in Andy Vajna's casino than before!]] It seems to me that when he won the Oscar Prize for the film he supported, Saul's son, and thus a Hungarian success, which, fortunately, with another film supported by the media field, could happen again this year that after 34 years we Hungarians and the creators and the actors themselves have won the Oscar Prize, then I see that your anger has not diminished at all. Our ministry, honourable Member, will examine all requests in substance and will either submit them to the government or submit them to Parliament. So if there is a proposal that we agree with, you will see it here, on Parliament's table, but once again I can only say to you, as Congresswoman Bangóné Borbély Ildikó, who constantly yells at you, that there is no such bill on the Parliament's table. At the same time, there are Hungarian filmmakers that we should not forget. I think the film Treasurem, which was presented recently, received very good criticisms, and after London Budapest is now the second most important European film production site. By the end of 2016, the Film Fund has supported or supported the production of 75 whole-night movies since the transformation of the Film Fund, of which 40 were already visible in Hungarian cinemas and international film festivals. Two hundred film scenarios have been completed and the contribution of the film industry to GDP has tripled in recent years. This makes the biggest contribution of the film industry to the total national product in Hungary, if we look at European countries. It also pleased us - I think all of us; it doesn't matter who favors which party - when Kristóf Deák took over the Oscar Prize, the little statue of gold, and recommended this recognition to his young actors. As you said, success belongs to people who can make this world better, to children themselves. And we were happy to watch the children at Bakáts Square School who shouted together when they had achieved an almost incredible success earlier. There are plenty of international conventions on the protection of children, honourable Member: Article 32 of the New York Convention on the Rights of the Child is what Hungary naturally respects, the ILO Convention of 1999; the Labour Code also provides for [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] the conditions under which work can be carried out over the age of 16. The guardianship permit, which you referred to, honourable Member, has been the principle of legislation for a decade and a half, that, in the event that parents do not agree on an important issue, the guardianship authority is obliged to apply for permission from a young person of the age required to attend school. It is an established legal institution and has been used in Hungary for a decade and a half. What I can agree with you is that it is always in the best interests of the child, and therefore it is only possible to take any kind of intervention or any kind of procedure - I would rather say - if parents so request, a question should be decided on the basis of a parental request. So I believe that if we look at the interests of children, then we are on the right track, and that every bill that we have put forward and will continue to apply from the Fundamental Law through any of the laws published in the bulletin [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] always pursue the best interests of children. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-20-40	I'll give the congressman the floor for a rejoinder.
u2017-03-20-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Of course, I cannot accept the answer because you have not answered my specific questions at all, Mr State Secretary. I'd like to draw your attention to another serious conspiracy. In the morning, if I meet a friend, I wish you a good morning as well as Ildikó Bangóné Borbély or any member of the Socialist Group, so I managed to expose another conspiracy to you. The answer you gave us was not adequate at all. We were not talking about what film success we had or did not have to thank Andy Vajna, but we were talking about whether you had made such a request, whether you had dealt with the question. This was about whether the peak of impertinence can be felt even in the area of child protection, that Andy Vajna thinks that he can do anything, even interfere with legislation of this kind. And by the way, you've been talking about the current legislation of the social services office, and you've been talking about it. The point is that if a decision or a non-decision actually seriously endangers the child's fate, the child's future, then the guardianship authority may intervene as a third party [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And not in this case, when it comes to another filling of someone's wallet. Thank you, so I can't accept the answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-20-42	I ask the House whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 103 votes to 27, with no abstentions. Erzsébet Schmuck and R. Benedek Sallai, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. The Fidesz raises the interest of its agricultural oligarchs to a new level? It's an address. The congressman has the floor. [[14.20]]
u2017-03-20-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As the question has been raised, I am obviously expressing the criticism that, in principle, your governance has resulted in a structure of property similar to that of feudal relations in 1935 over the past few years. This is strange, because Minister János Lázár recently noticed that Sándor Csányi referred to him as Hungary's number one loan shark, but earlier as a bank leader who seemed to be an octopus-like Hungarian. In comparison, Fidesz-KDNP announced that it would withdraw large subsidies, some of the subsidies from this area. In comparison, 2016 did not bring any meaningful results again. Once again, Sándor Csányi is leading the statistics of most of the aid received, and he is clearly also the first in the absolute top list of agricultural enterprises. Bólyi Zrt. The entire Bonafarm group has received HUF 1.6 billion in agricultural support alone, and the whole Bonafarm group has absorbed HUF 2.8 billion. The Csányi Empire is currently farming on 25,000 hectares. Obviously, the question is what strategy is indicated by this trend. Technically, it can be seen that there is no substantial change compared to the MSZPs in this respect, there is no meaningful change between your governance and the previous, highly criticised MSZP directions. You give the money of Hungarian taxpayers and EU taxpayers to billionaires in the same way. In order to make this perfectly clear, I would like to say the statistics that in 2016, less than 0.3 percent of those receiving the aid, the largest 500 farmers, received 21.5 percent of the subsidies, and a total of HUF 138 billion. This HUF 138 billion allowed 500 interests - 500! - receive nearly 300 million forints each; so this is the 500 farmers. The other nearly 170,000 farmers did not receive 3 million forints on average. Obviously, what we would be trying to do on the government is that after having repeatedly told the rise of small and medium-sized farmers, how can all trends be in the opposite direction? We are now concerned that Balázs Győrffy, President of the Agricultural Chamber, recently wanted to put product integration on a basis that fits this practice, as integrators, like the Trafik case, give concessions on the integration of all agriculture and bring interests into a monopolistic situation. Sándor Csányi, Lőrinc Mészáros and other known names may arise again. Obviously, Fidesz has been doing the same practice for seven years now as the MSZP has begun. My respectful question, Mr Secretary, is whether there will be any change in this. So far, they've been talking about it, and the measures we've taken so far haven't brought any results. Billionaires will receive the top of their funding as they have done so far. Sándor Csányi runs the list of those receiving most of the grants in the same way as in the MSZP years. When will this change substantially, and when will the type of agricultural structure that has been mentioned so many times come? Right now, we're strengthening the South American that we wanted to get away from. I look forward to your reply. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-03-20-44	I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Kiss.
u2017-03-20-45	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. The Member's statements on the distribution of agricultural subsidies, which are a little populist and mood-stricken, are a bit perverse to reality. I suggest that you study the support system for the common agricultural policy a little more carefully, and I would be very happy to help you with that, by the way. I've prepared a few numbers, too. It is important to know that more than 184 thousand customers made payments for agricultural subsidies in 2016 and that more than 640 billion forints were paid in some way. The Member should also be aware that, due to EU logic, a significant proportion of these subsidies depend on the size of the territory or the number of animals he holds. This is true not only in Hungary, but in all EU Member States, it is not unique. Nevertheless, I must say that these figures do not necessarily show reality. Contrary to the data from his interpellation, I have to say that the most important thing is to follow the trend. In the fact that the 500 largest economies received the HUF 138.7 billion of aid in 2016, the trend must be looked at, Congressman. In 2014, this figure was still HUF 184 billion. We took some HUF 40 billion from the 500 largest agricultural enterprises in the area of subsidies. For example, the Bonafarm Group you mentioned gets 1 billion less each year. You'd better study these numbers or statistics more carefully. As regards the average grant of HUF 3 million, I would like to remind the Member that the last one was Ferenc Gyurcsány, who counted agricultural subsidies on average. I don't recommend it to anyone because it can be misleading. What the government has done in recent years, I would like to brief you very briefly. In addition to introducing the withdrawal of aid in the area payments scheme for those holding more than 1200 hectares, we have also introduced a number of instruments and I can account for a number of results. What we know is that in Hungary it was alone that the government took the basic support for farms over 1200 hectares and distributed it to farmers in the rural development programme, including agri-environmental support, where 99 percent of farmers were below 300 hectares in the first round results; 99 percent of the winners were below 300 hectares. I would just like to point out that this was precisely translated earlier in 2009. For example, only the largest farms in the arable land had access to these subsidies. In addition, we have introduced all other instruments for which the common agricultural policy offers opportunities, such as coupled subsidies, or, for example, simplified flat-rate subsidies for small farmers, in which more than 41 thousand farmers live, Member, and have access to a higher amount than if they were normally requested. In addition, we took measures in the rural development programme, such as the second leg of the common agricultural policy, thanks to which I was able to partially report the results of the already mentioned ASG programme, and partly - and perhaps even more importantly - we fixed the 80% to 20% share of investment aid at programme level. What does that mean? It means, Mr President, that up to 20% of the largest farms mentioned by you can benefit from investment funds and 80 percent of small and medium-sized family farms, the first such application for the construction of manure reservoirs shows these figures perfectly. Finally, your comment on integration: this is the most important. They spread rumors without knowing the Chamber's proposals, Congressman. In any case, I suggest that you turn to the Chamber with confidence and share your common ideas, not your criticism, rather than your sensational accusations. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-20-46	The congressman has the floor.
u2017-03-20-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Don't ask us to have any confidence in your chamber. Don't ask me that. This is the Chamber of Magos and Fidesz, farmers would be elsewhere. [[Noise from the benches of the governing parties. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] However, let me tell you why your examples of EU Member States are completely limping. In Slovenia, the proportion of holdings over 100 hectares is 7 per cent, in Austria 16 per cent, in the Netherlands 19 per cent, in Poland 21 per cent. In Hungary, the proportion of these holdings is 64 percent, one of the worst regimes in the Member States of the Union. That is why we should have a different agricultural policy, because you are now cementing this large estate structure, while we continue to give it the worst support system. So you are in favour of supporting Sándor Csányi, the richest man in Hungary, who has been placed among the richest people in the world, with an additional HUF 2.8 billion in support of the Hungarian state. That's the policy you're sworn to break down, and that's what we're asking you to do. Obviously, this is what is unacceptable in your reply. [[György Balla: You're talking nonsense!]] I can't accept your answer. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-03-20-48	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the House whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 107 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Richárd Hörcsik and Zoltán Tessely, representatives of Fidesz, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:, How is the closure of the previous development cycle? It's an address. Congressman Tessely has the floor.
u2017-03-20-49	Mr. Speaker, Fellow Members! Your Honour, Secretary of State. Although proposals and payments for the 2014-2020 EU development cycle are now primarily on the agenda, I think it is worth looking back and recalling the experiences of the previous programming period. Let us remember: a few years ago, the news was that urgent measures were needed and changes to the institutional background in order to avoid the loss of HUF 600-800 billion of EU funds from the seven-year framework of 8200 billion. This was finally achieved thanks to effective government measures. By August 2015, HUF 8000 billion was drawn, and by the end of the year payments were close to HUF 9000 billion. [[14.30]] Although the Commission has repeatedly suspended payments, largely due to objections to the 2007 selection system, the government's involvement has led the applicants to see nothing of this in the most cases. The drawdown of funds was effective, so our country achieved the target and was able to use 100 percent of them first of the Member States of the European Union, thus strengthening the previous development cycle. Finally, Hungary used 108 percent of EU funds for the period 2007-2013, 70 560 projects received EU funding worth HUF 9536 billion. Dear Secretary of State, After 2010, we managed to get the economy back on track and the country back on track, and the rational use of EU funds was also a major factor. As we know, nothing in the Union is going fast, so neither is the end of things. That is why I ask, Minister, how the 2007-13 development cycle ends, whether we have completed the process completely, whether we have obtained all the resources allocated to Hungary. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-50	Nándor Csepreghy has the floor to answer.
u2017-03-20-51	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to outline a significant difference between the development policy led by the socialists and the development policy pursued by the current government. It can be judged in two ways. One is that, while private interests have always overridden the public interest in the 2007 cycle, this has been reversed in 2014. The other very significant difference is that those responsible for the 2007 development policy, who are still in part in the parliament, represented the interests of Brussels in Budapest instead of representing the interests of Budapest and Hungary in Brussels. When the Orbán government received a mandate in 2010, we inherited a situation in the field of development policy when the Socialists committed it, promised development resources, but they did not signify in the payments, which meant that while around 70-80 percent of the funds were tied down, the amount paid to applicants, municipalities and small companies in Hungary was less than a thousand billion forints. That had to change. Therefore, in spring 2010, the second Orbán government made the commitment to guarantee the return of the entire development resource framework by the end of the cycle. When last year the Hungarian Parliament first discussed the use of EU funds in a debate day, this was the most important commitment and result that we could make. Minister Lazarus was able to announce that the Government of Hungary used these funds in its entirety, and, as you pointed out, he could spend 8 percent of his own budget reserve to overtake these EU frameworks. Why did you have to do that? Because we could expect debates at the same time as we are now seeing on metro 4 the most important and major corruption case in the Hungarian political history after the regime change, where the European Commission itself says that businesses and companies and politicians linked to socialist and free democratic city leadership and country leadership have stolen HUF 166 billion from Hungarian taxpayers, and Hungary's EU cash register was shortened by HUF 166 billion. With regard to the financial closure, as you know, Mr President, we must deliver the final accounts to the European Commission by the end of March this year. As this happens, the European Commission is also expected to pay Hungary the funds it retains until the various disputes are essentially a guarantee, and the Government of Hungary will be able to report to the Hungarian Parliament at the beginning of this summer that the commitment we made in 2010 has been fully fulfilled, so we have brought home all the European Union funds that Hungary deserves. However, this is not the most important issue in 2017. In 2017, the most important question is whether we will be able to bring Hungarian development policy into a competitive path, not only in terms of the ability to draw money, but also in terms of using these resources as efficiently as possible, so that they do take into account that Hungary as a member of the European Union has not given up its sovereignty, has not given up on becoming a major economic factor in the region. Therefore, the most important change in the current use of resources was that within the total resource, which amounts to approximately HUF 12 000 billion, together with rural development funds, we give 60% of the money to Hungarian businesses instead of using it by the state and thus support the fact that by 2020 Hungarian economic operators will be truly competitive not only in the domestic but also in the international comparison. In this work, I think that the government and the applicants are both needed, so here, if we are talking about results, we must thank the Hungarian entrepreneurs, who were partners in 2010, and our partners, since then, so that the Hungarian economy can really get on an evolving path, thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-52	Once again, the congressman has the floor. [[Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: Otherwise, do not accept it!]]
u2017-03-20-53	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Interestingly, we Members have two criticisms at home about the effective use of EU funds. All of these are political criticisms. From the right it is said that those who have not decided on the effective use of any forints of public money criticize the way in which it has been done in the past period. On the left, it is criticized by those who, if there was no change in government in 2010, their work could have resulted in a stay of HUF 600-800 billion, and the question of corruption cases, which did not really reflect the efficient use of public funds. Since 2010, the government has earned both praise and the 1700 people [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] in the public administration, whose work has made these successes possible. Thank you very much, I accept the answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-54	Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. How long do people have to pay for the delay of Magyar Posta? It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister has entrusted the Ministry of National Development, whose State Secretary will answer, with responsibility and competence according to the subject. Congresswoman's got the floor.
u2017-03-20-55	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I do not know if you have noticed the very serious problem that has been worrying the majority of the Hungarian population for months: the increasing number of delays, disruptions and labour shortages that are characteristic of the operation of Magyar Posta. It is no longer just that the monthly newspapers or packages arrive a few days late. Even a delay of a month or two from the public company is often possible. [[An intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: Outrageous!]] But what's more important is the late arrival of bills, yellow checks. If you could be sure of anything so far in Hungary, it is that the cheques to be paid arrive deadlocked. But that's not true anymore. In fact, for this reason, it is not certain that people can pay their bills on time, so in the following letter the subscriber sees interest on late payment, an additional fee, and a much, much higher amount on the check. Minister, Secretary of State, I can't believe it, but this is the better case, because at least that letter arrived. But it is enough that only one account is accidentally misplaced, and a few months later, the service provider can threaten the population by turning it off. Unfortunately, this case is not a fictitious example, both in the countryside and in the capital more and more often the bills arrive late, and there are increasing complaints that even months later the check will arrive after the expiration date. Dear Secretary of State, Do you agree that subscribers should pay surcharges and interest for the delay in the post office? Do you consider it acceptable to turn households off the network because of checks that never arrive? What do you want to do about the problem? You're the one who caused this problem, that's all. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-03-20-56	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go.
u2017-03-20-57	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Postal Act lays down rules for the passage of letters in accordance with EU postal directives, which requires 97 percent of the letters to be delivered to the post office within 5 days. This European standard also applies to letters containing yellow cheques. [[14.40]] This requirement has been fulfilled by the post office every year, including in 2016. In 2016 customers paid over 200 million cheques in the post office. In the course of last year, 552 complaints were received in connection with account letters. So the number of cases covered by the complaint represents 0.018 per cent of the total volume of the invoices, so please do not refer to the majority of the Hungarian population, because that is simply not true. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] At the same time, the fate of all shipments is important, the Magyar Posta investigates all customer complaints according to the relevant procedures and informs the customers about this in writing. The nature of the consignment, thus the form of the service, shall be determined by the sender of the consignment. Invoices containing yellow cheques are sent in bulk as so-called unregistered consignments. The unregistered nature of the consignment means that they are not individually identified by Magyar Posta. This means less information, as opposed to the data on registered consignments, which allows accurate monitoring of the working phases from dispatch to delivery. Therefore, in the near future, Magyar Posta will start to develop improvements that will make ordinary letters more effective, such as the handling, delivery of yellow cheques, and more information about their postal journey will be available in the future. The settlement of utility bills is of course a very important issue, and mixing any bill of account should not lead to a situation for the consumer to bear additional costs or to turn the service off as a mister. Therefore, each utility service provider must properly and in a documented manner call upon its customer to pay the invoice before suspending the service and, on the other hand, inform the customer of the possible methods for the settlement of the invoices with those service providers. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Until now, we do not say that a few dozen or a few hundred of the 200 million shipments will not be mixed up, but please do not undermine the Hungarian Post Office and Hungarian postmen's credit in view of this minimum margin of error. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-58	I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2017-03-20-59	I can't accept the answer [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] the majority of Hungarian citizens who follow the rules when they receive the cheque later [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Like the deadline for the deposit, he just swipes down and says that I can't win against the big guys, the Hungarian Post, because I'm just a little man. We have one task as opposition representatives: to stand up for these people [[Dr. Zsolt Crew: That's right!]] And stand up so they don't have to pay any more. When the CEO earns thirty-seven times the salary of an average postman and the checks don't arrive, I think that the normal thing would be to replace the manager and not make so much money, because somehow the Hungarian Post doesn't work well. What you hear these days is that when you're walking down the street, people just wave at you, that the check's gonna arrive, I'm gonna have to pay it anyway. According to the Secretary of State, the cheques will not arrive later; then we can say that the yellow cheque is probably almost like the Hungarian railway: it is not delayed according to the State Secretariat. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew: That's right! Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-03-20-60	I ask the House whether it accepts the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 98 votes to 26 with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Tamás Pintér, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister. It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2017-03-20-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Minister Antal Rogán identified his main task a few months ago in his intention to lead Viktor Orbán to victory, and that the Prime Minister of Hungary will still be called Viktor Orbán after 2018. Well, I would like to point out that when Jobbik comes to government, he will also want to help and represent voters in his ministerial positions, not in the interests of a party president. But now let's move on from this and get back to Mr Rogán's work. The TV2 of Andy Vajna was launched from an eximbank credit, or HUF 8 billion public money, in which a survey shows that 83 percent of the government's position is supported by the news. The only more successful project is M1's propaganda newscast: the materials running on the channel contribute 91 percent to the fidesz brainwashing. I would congratulate you if you didn't use the money of the working people to fund all this. The question arises what kind of government takes 20,000 forints a year out of people's pockets to finance all this. In a normal country, of course, television mocked as a public service would be noticed by the supervisory authorities, but all five of the five members of the Media Council have been nominated by Fidesz for nine years. In connection with Lokal and 888.hu at least they gave the appearance and took the trouble to register this business in the name of Árpád Habony. In many cases Jobbik has already won a press case against them, but if it is also financed by taxpayers' money, then we will end these lawsuits, we would like to announce it now. However, Hungarian citizens also have tax forints in Lőrinc Mészáros County's newspapers, and now they spread the lie with public money in 14 counties. Nevertheless, the Népszabadság has been destroyed, Népszava is fed with state advertisements so that it does not become a government critic, and for the sake of safety they bought the Watcher, and they also put L. Simon László ex-Secretary on the editorial board to make sure that Tamás Lánczi can relax among some false opinions. But the brazen thing is that government propaganda, character killings, filth and lies, the Lokal, which pushes the quality of mass media into an amazing depth, is now financed with Duna New Town money and public money. By the way, there is so much indignation there that, at the request of the people there, a collection of signatures was also started. Dear Secretary of State, I have two questions. Was it your idea to support the Lokal a little bit of the Dunaújváros salary? Or are you planning to introduce in other settlements that the people living there will be paid for the cost of the rag called Lokal? Thank you in advance for your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-20-62	State Secretary Csaba Dömötör will answer. Here you go.
u2017-03-20-63	[[No sound.]] Dear Parliament, I'd like to tell you... [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Card! Interventions from the opposition, among others: Rules of the House! The Secretary of State puts his card in the machine.]] Excuse me. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I would also like to tell you here that freedom of the press and opinion is a fundamental value for the government. And I would also like to say to you that the Hungarian press is quite diverse, that everyone can find media suitable for their own taste and worldview, and that there is no information otherwise that does not find its way in public. We acknowledge that there is an ever-increasing competition between individual publishers and media owners, but the government does not want to interfere in this competition for its part. [[Dr. István Józsa: Ah, no!]] Forgive me, but I'm not competent in Dunaújváros media matters, I don't deal with decisions of publishers and editorials, and that's the right thing to do. But while we are here, it is worth saying a few words about the media, also because I was a little surprised to hear his moralizing speech, because Jobbik is the party whose people gave the Kuruc.info to this country. So, if anyone wonders what the style, tone or content of the Hungarian media would be like under a better leadership, look at the Kuruc.info, it is really the lowest of everything. You referred to the financial background of the psychics, what you said, the hypocrisy in the cube. It wasn't exactly Jobbik who ran a paper with most of the publisher's income coming from Jobbik's party foundation, I ask you - wasn't it? In this paper, I would like to inform you that even the president of Jobbik used to be the owner, even his wife, and even his sister-in-law worked there. And you guys talk about relatives and buddies. [[An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Jesus, Mary!]] By the way, there is another medium, a portal that also works with better party money; there were months when they typically had to report no less than four corrections. How Jobbik, by the way, handles the relationship between the media and politics, is well described by their group leader's statement, who said earlier: "Gábor Vona, on behalf of Gábor I have to create the media background of Jobbik. Now I'm working on a commercial channel for Jobbik. My summer months are gonna be full of this. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[14.50]] We don't know what became of this grand plan, but we do know that since then, they've been forced into the wages of an oligarch of media owners, in his mediums, they've been selling on the remaining soul of Jobbik. That's why it's not a coincidence that your party president has inaugurated Kálmán Olga's new show. Honourable Congressman, If you really are concerned about the freedom and quality of the Hungarian media, you should first and foremost ask Jobbik's new owner. We want a lot of endurance and courage for this work. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-64	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2017-03-20-65	Thank you very much. I hear you didn't understand my question. So, in Dunaújváros, this rag is financed with public money to get it to the mailbox of every single Dunaújváros. The rag that, by the way, lost more press lawsuits against Jobbik than the number of pages in it. So I can't accept your answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-20-66	I ask this House if it will accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 106 votes to 27, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, a representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What is the funding system for the newly created nursery system? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2017-03-20-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We Fidesz and Christian Democrats believe that the future belongs to our children, so first of all allow me to congratulate you on your recently born child. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But as our children have the future, I am also very pleased that the comprehensive reform of the nursery care system took place on 1 January 2017. From January this year, parents will be able to enroll their children in not only a traditional nursery, but also in a minibord, a nursery at work, or even a family nursery under the age of three. In addition, from 2018 it is mandatory to provide day care to municipalities in whose territory there are at least 40 children under the age of three, or where there are at least five children whose parents require this care. According to the statistics of the Statistical Office, while in 2000, there were 532, 749 daycare centers throughout the country in 2015. But more importantly, compared to about 25,000 places at the time, in 2015, parents were able to place almost double, 40,000 children in crèches, and in 2016, along with family daycare facilities, this figure was nearly 50,000. With the new regulation, the government's objective is clear: to provide a nursery for parents with small children who want to work as soon as possible, and the number of nursery places in Hungary reaches 60,000. In the last 15 years, Hungary's population has decreased every year, but according to statistics, last year's fertility rate was 1.48 per cent, almost 20 per cent higher than in 2011, so it is clear that there is a growing need for crèches as well. In order to maintain high standards and to recognise the work of daycare workers, the government has increased wages in several steps over the past period. Dear Secretary of State, Of course, there is not enough will for all of this, there must also be a source for implementation. The modified nursery structure can only function effectively if the government provides sufficient resources for operation and maintenance. That is why I would like to ask you about the funding system for the newly created nursery system, and what other applications are available for crèches so that they can maintain the existing high standards. Thank you very much and I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-68	Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go.
u2017-03-20-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you very much for your good wishes. In the coming years, HUF 106 billion will be available to create new nursery and kindergarten seats. And these are not only future figures, because of which 90 percent of the total amount was already announced, that for the settlements, communities that would like to maintain a nursery, maintain a kindergarten, upgrade, expand or create a new one, these funds were issued for some HUF 96 billion, and another HUF 10 billion will come later. In order for those who work here to look at this career in the long term and to work here under better income conditions, the government has taken important measures in two steps. The first step was in the case of those with a higher education degree, when we adjusted the salaries of these children's educators to the pedagogical career. This means that their salary has increased by 46 percent as a result of the government decision. The second step is to raise salaries for those with secondary education. Here, the guaranteed minimum wage, i.e. the increase in the minimum wage and the introduction of the nursery allowance, increased the salary of the workers here by 32 percent. We hope that there will be funding to develop these institutions, to create new ones in small settlements, and to provide higher wages for those working here. This is important because the important need for many people to reconcile work and family is the creation of a new cradle. The coverage of kindergartens is almost complete, even 100 percent in the country, only there are settlements where more children are born in proportion, fortunately, there is a need to create more kindergartens here. For children under 3 years of age, the capacity for their day care has increased from 12% to 17 percent between 2010-16, i.e. by about 40 percent in Hungary, but we want to increase it further, we want to increase the current 46,000 seats to 60,000 by 2020, which means an additional 30 percent enlargement. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] This is how this form of public service can reach all settlements where this is essential. Mr President, you have also mentioned when this is necessary. If the number of children under the age of 3 exceeds 40 or if the parents of 5 small children indicate that they want a nursery in the settlement. This year was important because the institutional system, the family nursery, the mini-cradle, the day-care center was transformed, and we hope that from 1 January 2019 every settlement with less than 10 thousand inhabitants, where the above mentioned conditions exist, will be able to care and care for children throughout the day. This increases the coverage of crèches to one third in Hungary, so we will have this in every three settlements. In 2017, if I compare the figures to the data of.. 10, the central budget will spend 27 percent more money on day care, so this year it will be 14 billion HUF. In 2010, this was 11 billion forints, i.e. from 11 billion to 14 billion for the funding of day care in kindergarten. At the mini-cradle, the institutions receive the same funding as the normal nursery, HUF 494,000. In the family nursery, where the conditions are easier, 70 percent; at the day care center, the state can provide 30 percent, but here other benefits, since the costs can be deducted from corporate tax and the remuneration fee can be granted to employees as a tax-free benefit if the employee accepts this cost. At the same time, it should be pointed out that, compared to previous family daycare centers, the normative amount increased by nearly 30 percent and 29 percent, to be exact. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. I will ask Congressman István Hollik if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2017-03-20-71	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. You also confirm that the Fidesz-KDNP government is doing everything in its power to make Hungary a family-friendly country. I say this not only because with the family tax discount, more than HUF 200 billion stays a year with families who have children, and I say this not only because the government spends nearly HUF 211 billion a year to help families housing, but also because it is clear from what you have said that you are doing everything you can to ensure and develop the already high kindergarten care that has always been typical in Hungary. I therefore ask you to continue this work, and thank you very much, I accept your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.00]]
u2017-03-20-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck and MEP Sallai R. Benedek, representatives of LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, who pays the Paks loss? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-20-73	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The European Commission's in-depth investigation into the illicit state support of the planned Paks expansion found that Paks expansion is expected to cost at least HUF 4000 billion in public money, the Hungarian taxpayer's money, and this is likely to be a negative and loss-making investment in the long term. So János Lázár was right when he said, as Minister, that Russian enlargement would be the investment of the century, but he did not break it down in detail, and he did not say that this was the worst investment. Obviously, what the Fidesz-KDNP is doing is making it impossible by political means for every Hungarian citizen to achieve an energy self-determination, and whether it is using solar cells or self-active energy systems to help achieve a lasting, sustainable reduction of energy, these political instruments are basically blocking all of this. So you banned the construction of wind power plants, thus excluding the cheapest alternative, because the cheapest electricity in Hungary is currently produced not by the old Paks blocks, but by wind wheels built before the ban in Orbán. A penalty tax has been imposed on solar panels, and more than one kind can be imposed, and the European Energy Union, i.e. the opening up of energy markets, can also be curbed, but at the moment the Orbán Cabinet has only one calculation of the return of the Paks expansion, a study prepared by the Rothschild bank house, but this is certainly so expensive that they have not dared to reveal its price since then. This expensive propaganda also includes in the text and graphically portraying that enlargement can only be recovered if there is a substantial, drastic increase in the price of electricity following the return of the blocks. At least double the current price if Paks is to be built, otherwise they will produce a loss-making power generation financed by public money forever. Obviously, this is a question because it is possible to make separate deals with Russians instead of united European action, and it may be that you have Russian businessmen putting the law in the pen, yet it is not appropriate to sabotage smart measurement and smart grids. These practices have three common characteristics: each pushes up the price of electricity, which you achieve, and all of them are against the interests of Hungarian energy consumers, yet the Orbán government uses all of them. I respectfully ask how the fact of the European Commission's support, the use of public funds... - with the more expensive energy prices clearly supported by the Rothschild bank house - is intended to achieve all of this with a total loss-making and poor investment. What should Hungarian consumers be friendly with for the next 60 years? Permanently double the price, persistently a XX. With the technology of the century, or is there any chance that Hungarian society will give an opinion on this energy vision? I look forward to your reply. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-03-20-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-20-75	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the word and the opportunity for the LMP to talk about the Paks enlargement. It is because we have been having this debate with LMP for a long time, and LMP has taken a lot of things into account when conducting this debate - one thing, not the facts. If Congressman and Congresswoman had read the entire Commission document that the European Commission sent to the government, they would have seen in the paper that the European Commission's material was not talking about loss. The European Commission's material talks about profits. The European Commission talks about how the Hungarian government can use the profits generated by the Paks capacity-building investment under what rules. Yeah, that profit isn't as big as a market investor's worth, that's right. But the state isn't a market. Hungary has already had a prime minister who thought that Hungary should be governed as a public limited company, and has fallen into this attitude with its party. What was the government's aspect, and what is the government's aspect at the moment when it talks about energy costs? Ensure security of supply at sustainable prices. In 2010, when the Orbán government took over the country, Hungary was the EU as a whole in the sense that it paid the most for a kilowatt hour electricity. Do you know where we are today? We are the third cheapest EU country. As long as the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is able to produce electricity at a price of 11 forints per kilowatt hour, which Hungarian consumers buy for 36 forints, where German green energy production is subject to appropriate state subsidies, German consumers will have to pay for a kilowatt hour for 90 forints per kilowatt hour. The Hungarian Government considers energy policy issues to be a matter of sovereignty. If the current blocks in Paks expire, we will be forced to renew this capacity, otherwise if we do not do so, Hungary will need more gas imports. If the expectations that you assume in green energy really happen in the same way that no one can guarantee today, as you hope, nothing will happen, because then the development of green energy and the Paks Nuclear Power Plant will enable the Hungarian state, the Hungarian government, to reduce its dependence on natural gas. We believe that it is important to maintain nuclear power plant capacity in Hungary, it is important that what is profitable and profitable in America, which is profitable and profitable in France, which is profitable in the Scandinavian countries, can also be profitable in Hungary. Indeed, we should not look at this investment from the perspective of a market investor, but from the perspective of the Hungarian state's obligations to Hungarian taxpayers and Hungarian businesses. Paks is the guarantee that we will be able to maintain the reduction of the rent in Hungary. Therefore, the person who attacks Paks is, in essence and ultimately, attacking the cost reduction itself. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-20-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Sallai R. Benedek if he will accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go.
u2017-03-20-77	Unfortunately, I can't accept it because it's a few facts. Mr Secretary of State is talking about sustainable energy production. I'll ask him where he'd open a uranium mine and where he'd plant the nuclear waste. What sustainability are you talking about? He says it's the third cheapest energy price. Please also look at the indicator of how much the Hungarian consumer spends on energy compared to income, and you will see that we produce the third highest, worst ratio. After all, Hungarian citizens make the most of their income in this EU. And he says the power costs 11 forints right now. Please, you're not counting the cost, the source of the development. In this way, LMP offers free electricity to Hungarian voters. It's very simple. Out of four billion forints it can be done by basically spending it on households. You do not count the total cost of the 11 HUF. See how much it will cost if the 4,000 billion forints are distributed. These research, as well as research into the Rothschild bank house, both in the European Union, has indeed said that it can be profitable, but in the event that current energy prices are more than doubled. That's why I can't accept it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-03-20-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 23 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Member Erik Bánki and Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi, representatives of Fidesz, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, A year ago, the terms of the CSOK have been significantly extended. What are the experiences? It's an address. Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-03-20-79	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Our political community has always had a family-friendly policy. It's no different now. We are concerned about worsening demographic trends, and we are delighted to see trends improve. Fidesz, in cooperation with the government, is constantly looking for new tools and incentives to provide financial support for childbearing in Hungary. We should be saddened that opposition parties have been attacking the home creation programme from the beginning. If it were up to the left and the liberals, they would once again abolish what they had already done during their government. During their administration, Ferenc Gyurcsány and the Socialists abolished the housing benefits introduced by the first Orbán Cabinet, abolished the state-supported housing loan, and more than doubled the housing tax, and chased Hungarian families into risky foreign currency loans. As a result, in 2010 there were more than one million foreign exchange-credit families in Hungary. But now, the home creation program remains popular, becoming more popular. Let me also say a few figures: in December, contracts were concluded with a record value of HUF 9.6 billion.Since the introduction of the programme in 2015, 36 thousand applications have been accepted, with a total value of HUF 87 billion. [[15.10]] Since September last year, the CSOK has become even more favourable, with an increase in the number of beneficiaries. Such a change was the fact that, when building undivided common-owned apartments, the bank could establish entitlement during construction, so that the grant would not have to wait for the real estate to become a condominium. The claim may be considered for children up to 25 years of age, whether or not they are studying in higher education. It was also possible to make CSOK available for real estate sold from the so-called design table, even before the property was put into use. It was further facilitated that the fetus could be taken into account in the application from the age of 12 weeks rather than the previous 24 years. The case of flats based on undivided common-owned land also posed a problem. In these cases, the CSOK can now be used if the owners enter into a usage sharing agreement with each other. In addition to the above, construction communities are now entitled to the CSOK, and if the claimant is deceased, his direct relative, spouse and partner can acquire ownership of the CSOK property without having to pay back the aid. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The aim of the facilitations, which I listed, was to allow more people to live with the home creation program than before. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State what experience they have in relation to the extended condition of the CSOK. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-20-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, If we look at the figures that we have seen since the introduction of CSOK in July 2015, since the extension of the conditions, then we really see that the Hungarian government and the Hungarian nation's community have been able to help 39 thousand families, and the value of some HUF 100 billion is HUF 95 billion, if I look at the data at the end of January exactly, but since then this number has certainly increased. Indeed, it is a well-targeted support, aid in kind, so it will certainly serve the housing of families. You mentioned the 118,000 interested families and the 28,000 accepted applications. If I look at the 28 thousand applications submitted, one third of them, about 9 thousand applications were made for the construction of new apartments, but at the same time it represents two thirds of this amount, HUF 56 billion. In particular, if I look at families with three and more children, i.e. typically those who are the target audience of the CSOK, who most need to be able to build so many children's rooms for three or more children so that children can learn and grow up alongside parents, we can see that almost five thousand of them applied for CSOK, i.e. 60 percent of all the new apartments needed to be built and bought were large families, and the amount they requested was HUF 48 billion, which represents 86 percent of the applications for the new apartment. So a very well-targeted measure is CSOK, the removal of administrative barriers has been successful, because families with multiple children are able to use it to a very large extent, but, of course, the number of children who have been accepted by the CSOK applicants is over 10,000, so that these children will be born later, within the deadline laid down by the law, and we hope that this will also contribute to a demographic change, to halting population loss and to the subsequent reversal of the population. The 19 thousand claims for the purchase or expansion of the used apartment were nearly two-thirds, while the 28 billion HUF used for this purpose is one third of the total amount applied for. It can be said, therefore, that the introduction of the CSOK has also helped families who want to move to used homes or expand their existing homes since the expansion in 2015. It is also important that there are other discounts. The tax refund, which was used by 5,000 families in 2016. The amount of VAT paid for the purchase of the building site or the amount of raw material for the construction of the family house can be used up to a maximum of HUF 5 million. This was spent by 5,000 families worth HUF 23 billion. In addition, it is also possible to use a flat loan with a discount rate of HUF 10 million, which was used by 4 000 people in the amount of HUF 36 billion. This is also a sum of HUF 10 billion, which must be repaid, but at the same time with very low interest rates, i.e. up to HUF 10 plus HUF 10 million and HUF 20 million, one can start with only 10 million of them, with very low interest rates. So it seems to serve both goals at the same time on the basis of the numbers, here also on the basis of the amount, which is around HUF 100 billion and on the basis of the number of families that use it, also on the basis of the children that are committed, it serves the objective of having as many children as possible, for the families who already have children, the more comfortable the housing conditions, as it is obviously now affecting the child's childbearing in many cases, and it also really stimulates the housing market. The number of house building permits or announcements has also increased by two and a half times, which shows that this expansion will continue, and this year's budget of HUF 211 billion provides an adequate basis for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Erik Bánki if they will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-20-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I was pleased to hear the impressive data you gave on the part of the government regarding this aid scheme. I think that this is also a unique support structure in Europe, and it has indeed been targeted at finding the social class that the government has set itself, both in terms of population policy and, by the way, in order to strengthen the middle class. So I think we can talk about a full success story. The additional impact of this support system is also very important to whiten the economy, as we know precisely that due to the accounts, all expenditure and all costs must be verified and monitored. So I think that the purpose of this programme has been to whiten the economy and boost the economy, so we are very confident that thousands of families will be able to obtain this support in the future. Thank you very much, we accept the answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: Where is the wage increase? It's an address. Congressman István Tukacs has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-20-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Before I ask you any questions about interpellation, I would like to draw your attention to a recent research. One of the most important data in this poll is that more than 60 percent of people blame the current government for the state of health. That's two-thirds, Mr. Secretary. Although I see your colleagues haven't put this down as background material for you, it indicates that people are well aware... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]]
u2017-03-20-86	Congressman! According to the house rules, you cannot substantially deviate from the text of the interpellation, so I would ask you to tell me about the interpellation thank you very much.
u2017-03-20-87	... I will, of course, do this out of respect, and thank you very much for bringing it to my attention. Anyway, 65 percent is still the same. Dear Secretary of State, Here's what I'd like to ask you. When the workers' health-related advocacy organisations said that the workers did not receive the full increase in wages promised, you said that this contained isolated cases. Secretary of State, no. With a lot of technical manoeuvres, the institutions have achieved that most of the workers did not have access to the wage development you are talking about. This means that not only the overload, not just the strain, not only the hard work, but the fact that many people feel deceived is the reason for their condition now. Dear Secretary of State, If one person didn't get it, that's a lot, but if more people did, that's a terrible problem. He's still making trouble, Mr. Secretary, the one I've just faced is that most of the workers who want to do the same work as before want to heal the same way they have, but he wants to take a step between the pay table lanes in the hope of wage development, he's forced to take courses for hundreds of thousands of years. Mr. Secretary, this is a terrible problem. So it is not enough that these people earn much less than the average in Hungary, and even hundreds of thousands are paid to make money at all. [[15.20]] And finally, a lot of people complain that the wage difference between career beginners and those on the track for decades has almost disappeared, shrunk, there is no longer any attraction for those who want to enter the field, and those who feel dissatisfied about the work of several decades are also dissatisfied. Mr. Secretary, my questions come up. Why didn't you make sure everyone got their money properly? Why do people have to be forced to pay money to get along? What do you think of the pay table that doesn't differ? Mr President, thank you for the floor, thank you for the opportunity.
u2017-03-20-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-20-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it's a much more pleasant debate every time we talk about how much the wages are growing, why someone is growing more, why someone is growing more at a more pace than the debate that had to be held in the House before 2010 when the socialists and free democrats took a month's wages from those working in health care, or laid off more than ten thousand people working there or thousands of beds. Fortunately, we are now looking at and checking whether every hospital, from the HUF 80 billion that we provide as a surplus this year in health care has reached 26 percent, 12 percent, or 8 percent next year, that everyone should receive, or whether this 107+100 thousand HUF has actually arrived at the doctor's office, which has a budget coverage. I do not believe that the honourable Member will find such a period in Hungary's history, when spending on health has increased by half a percentage of the total national product from one year to the next. Fortunately, Hungary is now in such a situation, good economic policy has established the basis for the fact that the budget can also be used more, both in terms of health and in terms of GDP. Of course, there has been additional expenditure since 2010, as the amount of health expenditure has increased over inflation every year, but it was not very large on this scale, reaching half a percent of the total national product, and indeed the backbone of this is mainly wage increases. This is not a wage increase that the government intends to raise from a visitation fee and a hospital daily allowance; it does not promise through the privatisation of health care that if healthcare services are privatised, then someone will have a higher salary, but in the public service system, in the risk community system and in the insurance system, the Hungarian government will be able to guarantee that it will be possible to raise wages, not with visitation fees, not with separate payments, not with penalties, not with privatisation. This was obviously necessary for a long time, but it shows that it has positive feedback that not only in the case of doctors, but now also in the case of nurses, the number of people who apply for permission to work abroad after a recent degree or a degree has been obtained. In the case of nurses, this figure has decreased by 15 percent, in the case of doctors this number has decreased by 20 percent in one year, and if I look at the emigration numbers for doctors between 2010-11 and last year, then we can see that the number of people applying for a foreign work permit for the first time fell by half, half of whom want to go abroad after graduation or as a graduate doctor for the first time, as they did in 2010. This is obviously also due to the fact that in 2012-13 we were able to make a first-stage wage increase of HUF 75 billion from additional resources for 95 thousand healthcare workers. It is also due to the fact that residents derive not only scholarships, but also wages, from the support programme, which is worth HUF 4.5 billion, but also from hospitals now, but also from the central budget source of one of our wallets, so there is no conflict of interest between the hospital and the starting doctor, and there is no need for the hospital to save on not hiring young doctors. This has made it impossible for many people to start a career here in Hungary, and that is why many have gone abroad. This is also easier for hospitals under load, it has been saved as a result of this wage, and there is no conflict of interest between the older doctor and the starting doctor in terms of admission. The current increase in nurse's wages, the 26+12+8+8 percent, should apply to all the workers in four years. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] for all 79 346 persons. If it is violated anywhere, by anyone, it is a breach of law, it is covered in the health budget, it must be paid by health workers. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr István Tukacs if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-20-91	Mr. President, thank you very much. It would be difficult to accept the answer when there were no answers to two out of three questions. The Secretary of State has traveled through your usual time travel, as if you were in opposition, in our government, telling us about what you used to be like. Secretary of State, they've been ruling for seven years, now take off this scratchy record, it doesn't sound good. The situation, Mr State Secretary, is that all sources in Hungary say that one third of health costs are paid out of their own pocket. What are you talking about a visitation fee and a hospital allowance? Isn't the problem with poor health care and rich? The problem isn't that without money, nothing that the patient pays for works, and the problem isn't that anyone who can't pay stays that way? Secretary of State, it would be nice to stay on the ground of reality. Mr. President. I cannot accept the answer, and I would ask for a vote on this. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-20-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, the congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes to 29, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. Will the government stand up for national interests? It's an address. Congressman Tibor Bana has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-03-20-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik, along with many civil society organisations, has repeatedly drawn the government's attention to the fact that the EU-Canada Free Trade Agreement contains a number of provisions that violate our national interests, endanger the integrity of our environment and could be harmful to Hungarian health. You have ignored these signals, the counter-arguments have been swept off the table. In this case, the government operates in the same way as the European Commission, trying to base protests. Last year we had the opportunity to listen to Mrs Cecilia Malmström at the consolidated meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Sustainable Development. There have been a number of questions here, and it has also been said that there are a growing movement across Europe against free trade agreements, to which the EU Commissioner responsible for trade policy has said only that he knows about demonstrations, but there are a lot more people who remain at home during such demonstrations, so there are the majority of those who support the treaties. I think that this is a rather forced and circumstantial logic, because the fact that a person does not express his opinion within the framework of a street movement does not yet support CETA. At the same time, the European Commission may feel that the Convention is limping on several points, since it has been agreed that a declaration is being prepared, which, I quote, explains certain parts of it that are very sensitive to the public. A number of studies have been carried out on the increase in unemployment as a result of CETA, as well as a wider gap between the upper and lower sections of society. Meanwhile, Fidesz is also on a platform with left-wing parties who are regularly called friends and servers of multinationals and banks. Whatever the vote on CETA has taken so far in the European Parliament, the MEPs of Fidesz are in a strange coalition with the politicians of MSZP, DK and Együtt; a coalition that supports the interests of multinationals against the interests of Hungarians. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán constantly claims that Hungary is a pioneer in the European Union. Why shouldn't we have a country at the forefront from this point of view? Seeing that protests are growing in even larger Western European countries, there are moves towards these free trade agreements, I do believe that this should be taken up, just because we should not consider it when it comes to the enforcement of our own national interests and the sovereignty of the country. Dear Secretary of State, I expect a clear answer to my clear question: will the government finally stand up for national interests in action? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-20-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State László Szabó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-20-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You want a clear answer to the question, my answer is yes. If you would allow me to express this position a little better, I would like to say that Hungary supports the overall economic trade agreement between the EU and Canada from the very beginning of the discussions, and this is not a coincidence. [[15.30]] Let us not forget that there is currently a bilateral agreement between Canada and Hungary, and this agreement is much weaker than what we have achieved in the course of the negotiations within the framework of CETA. As a result of the lengthy negotiation process, a very ambitious, balanced free trade agreement has been reached, which benefits Hungary's companies and the Hungarian people as well. The volume of trade may increase by about 20 percent in both directions. Canada abolishes customs duties for EUR 400 million and, from the start of the agreement, it is around 390-400 Hungarian companies that export to Canada. We are sure that much more Hungarian companies will have access to the Canadian market. By the way, 81 percent of these companies, which are currently exporting to Canada, are small and medium-sized enterprises. This shows that this agreement does represent the interests of the Hungarian people. It will certainly help Hungary's export opportunities; it will encourage the acquisition of additional markets and create a more favourable environment in Europe, with which we will be able to better join the existing European production chains, including through bilateral and trilateral trade agreements. It can be seen that there is an unprecedented public awareness of free trade agreements across Europe, and that, of course, CETA is no exception. This is why, at the same time as the agreement was signed, in October 2016, the EU and Canada have a joint instrument of interpretation, which provides further assurance that they will not harm the parties, including the Member States' right to regulate; they will not reduce environmental, labour law, consumer protection standards and public services, and the parties will not be obliged to privatise and to re-nationalise privatised services. The document underlines that investment protection and investment dispute resolution operate within an appropriate framework; public procurement tenders may also provide for environmental and social criteria. Regulatory cooperation in the context of dialogue states that it operates only on a voluntary basis and that its outcome does not bind the parties. It is important to add that these guarantees are provided by CETA itself; the common interpretation document also clarifies by its name that certain provisions are interpreted equally by the parties. This document provides an appropriate response to concerns in Hungarian political life and the civil sector, as well as a guarantee to preserve our GMO exemption as enshrined in our Fundamental Law. On 15 February, the European Parliament voted in favour of the agreement by a large majority, so that, once the ratification process of the Canadian Party is completed in the near future, it is expected that provisional application of the provisions falling within the Union's competence may begin in spring 2017 or early summer. Given that CETA provides contracting parties to the EU as well as to the Member States, it is necessary to carry out ratification procedures in the Member States for the entry into force of the Agreement. This means that the Hungarian Parliament will have the opportunity to give an opinion on the full text of CETA, and that we will be able to address any problems that may arise during temporary application in a timely manner. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-20-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Tibor Bana if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2017-03-20-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I cannot accept your reply, because it is about our country's national self-determination and sovereignty when we are talking about the EU-Canada free trade agreement, but we can still see that the government is characterised by a double speech, because they are pulsating sound passwords, but when there is a need for substantive action, whether in order to preserve Hungary's GMO-free nature or in order to combat workers' rights, they do not do so. You were talking about corporate interests, Mr. Secretary. In the context of CETA, the fact that the interests of multinational companies appear here is visible, also in studies which provide for minimum GDP growth. So for you, the interests of the multinationals override the interests of Hungarians, environmental, health, food safety - this is unacceptable. Jobbik will be characterised by a different attitude after its accession to the 2018 government, but in the meantime, we will do our best to combat such and similar free trade agreements. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-03-20-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, the congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 102 votes in favour, 17 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck and MEP Sallai R. Benedek, representatives of LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:, Why is the government protecting the interests of the multinationals from Brussels? It's an address. The Prime Minister has commissioned Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, to respond to the interpellation. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the interpellation at the request of the Minister. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2017-03-20-99	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán announced that a national consultation will be launched on the five threats that Hungary is facing this year. According to Prime Minister, this is because Brussels wants to have new economic powers, thus weakening the sovereignty of the Member States. However, the government protects Hungarian interests, says the Prime Minister, and we wanted to find out what was happening in this way. Since I can only have two out of the five hazards in the interpellation, I would like to focus on these two, which we have tried to find out with written questions. The Prime Minister suggested that Brussels wants to force a tax increase on the Hungarian government. Since he did not say anything more, we specifically asked him about the plans in Brussels on the written question. The reply showed that the Prime Minister was primarily referring to corporate tax when he referred to a tax reduction. That is, the favourable tax reduction of large multi-company companies is what the Prime Minister wants to protect against Brussels. We are talking about a tax reduction that will only increase the profits of large companies; it will draw important resources from areas such as education, training, the environment, health, housing and livelihood. The new corporate tax reduction of multinationals against small businesses is a neoliberal step that is worthy of Fidesz-KDNP and obviously only increases the previous restrictions. It is completely against the interests of the Hungarian people - that is what the Prime Minister wants to protect. There is also the other attack that the Prime Minister has been talking about, the plot against job creation grants in Brussels. By this, the economic portfolio may mean Hungarian corporate subsidies - the written reply shows this. In 2015, 3 billion, but last year, 2016 the government spent 24 billion to directly support large multi-enterprises. We are talking about subsidies that give companies HUF 20 million per job, while small and medium-sized enterprises receive HUF 1.5 to 3 million per job created. Obviously, these subsidies would not be in danger, but from the perspective of the Brussels plan, it would be aimed at abolishing the competition rules, but the Prime Minister wants to protect the subsidies granted to the multinationals. Obviously, it is a very, very difficult question that, if there are such plans, the European social pillar, the equalization and approximation of social workers' rights within the Union - the Prime Minister, hiding himself under the cover of sovereignty, is really fighting against what? In practice, it fights to keep support for multinationals, to keep wages low, and obviously to support only billionaires with their social policy goals. This is just another indication that the Prime Minister still sees the sources of competitiveness in low wages, the exploitable workforce. We respectfully ask why the Prime Minister of Hungary does not represent the Hungarian citizens in Brussels as an indicator of the interests of the multinationals. We look forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-20-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-20-101	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I do not understand why you have a problem with lowering the corporate tax rate for all those involved, so that taxes are reduced. Or what is wrong with the increase in the number of employees in Hungary and is supported by the government? But let us look at the arguments in response to your question, in particular, about the promotion of jobs or why taxes are falling in Hungary. The government considers it important to maintain existing sovereignty in the Member States as regards direct taxes, including corporate taxes. However, we have to face the growing desire in the Union to raise tax policy to supranational levels rather than Member States. [[15.40]] However, the government is making tax policy changes that are closely and consistently in line with the domestic economic policy, tax policy and employment policy objectives set out in recent years. The primary aspect of these objectives is that the tax structure should be transformed in such a way as to reduce the public burden on labour and increase the role of traffic and consumption taxes. The corporate tax rate has consistently fallen to 9 percent from 2017, which makes our country one of the most competitive states in the EU in this respect, which is extremely important to investors in addition to the investment incentives, and not only to the foreigners you are trying to suggest, but also to Hungarian companies in Hungary, because they are able to spend significant amounts on development and investment. Therefore, I must strongly reject the suggestion that the introduction of a single 9 per cent corporate tax rate would only be useful for a few multi-company companies. Inform Hungarian businesses in this regard as well. On this basis, it can be concluded that the government has been working on tax reductions for all companies, not only taking into account the interests of a specific group of companies, but also the interests of the Hungarian people, thereby contributing to the competitiveness of employees and businesses. The interests of the Hungarian people would really be damaged if the decisions on tax policy were not taken by the Parliament representing them, but by the European Union. While maintaining the independence of the Member States in the field of tax policy, it is also in our fundamental interest that Hungary can continue to define its own way of supporting and supporting job creation. Important job creation grants were created in 2015-16, we spent tens of billions of forints on this, and as a result thousands of jobs were created, it should not be abandoned precisely because one of the main aims of the government is to provide jobs to people who want to earn a living from work, thereby increasing employment. The government is very supportive of the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises and defends - we are returning a little bit to the question of the social pillar - also the negotiation of a targeted revision of the present Posting of Workers Directive, since the amendment of the Posting of Workers Directive by overwriting the current rules would be by interfering with national competences. For example, the proposal aims to provide for equal remuneration for posted workers for equal work and to meet requirements for Hungarian businesses that make their activity impossible. It would be good for you to study these directives, study these expectations, the areas of the social pillar [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] because this would be a very serious disadvantage for Hungarian employers, including Hungarian employees. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Sallai R. Benedek if they will accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go.
u2017-03-20-103	Unfortunately, he didn't answer the question. The question was why Prime Minister Viktor Orbán represents multi-large companies in Brussels, not Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. No reply was received. There was also no response to why the interests of Hungarian workers were not more important than the fact that Hungary would provide cheap labour. The only thing that came out from Mr State Secretary's reply is that the employment policy of Fidesz-KDNP has not changed substantially in relation to the fact that you continue to build on the basis of low wages. You make the Hungarian state competitive in the region by giving the lowest wage. With regard to the increase in the number of people employed: obviously you can only talk about public workers and people recruited by multinationals. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] The problem is basically that you are unable to present any employment policy other than public workers and multinational companies. There are no new jobs that have not been created by multinationals, so you represent the multinationals both in tax policy and in Brussels. Thank you very much. I didn't accept the answer. [[Interview in the ranks of Fidesz: Sit down, Number One! Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Member did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes in favour, 29 against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member Mihály Balla, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:, Now Germany wants to stop uncontrolled migration, too? It's an address. Congressman Mihály Balla has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-20-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, there have appeared to be two completely opposite responses to the migration crisis in Europe. There was a country that closed its borders, complied with the rules, defended the country and its citizens, saying no to illegal immigration and protecting Europe at the same time. Hungary has also given these answers. And there is a completely opposite attitude. There are several countries in Europe where they thought that they should only let everyone in because of kindness, without control, system and organisation, ignoring the legislation in force. With this irresponsible attitude, millions of illegal immigrants have been invited to Europe. Then, in time, they realized that they did not like the fact that countless people started from certain countries to look for luck and prosperity in our welfare countries. To this end, they came up with the nice word "relocation mechanism," with reference to solidarity between European countries. In other words, migrants were invited, and then they wanted to distribute them through forced resettlement methods, including in our country. So they were the invitations, but they wanted us to pay the bill. The Hungarian people said no to this idea with last year's reference. At last, it seems that irresponsible policy in Germany, which had previously been an invitation to immigrants, is over. After the German CDU has long been searching for a way out of the crisis, the German Social Democrats have now realized that headless inclusion is not a solution, but that the situation must be dealt with differently instead. Thomas Oppermann, Head of the SPD Group, suggested that migrant camps should be set up in North African countries and that only legal immigration could take place from there. In order for the socialists to reach this solution proposal, unfortunately, we also needed terrorist attacks demanding human sacrifices, and, yes, we well suspect, there will be a choice - which is why they came to this conclusion - because Germany will elect a new federal parliament and government this year. Dear Secretary of State, In view of the fact that two of the largest political parties in Europe are now following Hungarian politics, I would like to ask you how you see the situation, perhaps Germany is finally trying to curb uncontrolled migration. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Mihály Balla responds to the question of interpellation by State Secretary László Szabó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-20-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to begin my reply with a quote from a prestigious German economic paper, Handelsblatt's article of 4 February. The Maltese informal EU summit has been written in this article and it is written here: Germany and Hungary have long since been drawn in the same direction in refugee policy. In the case of migrants from Libya to Italy, the positions of Berlin and Budapest are now as close as they have been for a long time. Indeed, it took about two years for the migrant crisis to become apparent that Western European politicians really understand what we are really up against, and that we may have started to tackle one of the biggest challenges of the European Union together since World War II. I would also like to remind you that Christian Democratic German Federal Minister for the Interior Thomas de Maizière has proposed the establishment of refugee centres in Libya and other North African countries. That message sounds familiar, too. Thomas Oppermann, the head of the German Social Democrats' parliamentary group, stood out in a major article alongside Thomas de Maizière's plan and the outcome of the Maltese EU summit that rescued people from the sea should be returned to North Africa. In addition to the EU parties, leading social democratic politicians have joined the camp which, according to its representatives, should deal with the migration crisis outside the EU. [[15.50]] At the summit in Malta, in the ten points adopted by Germany, the conclusion of the Balkan route has already been a result. The declaration states that ensuring effective control of the EU's external borders and halting illegal flows towards the EU are crucial for sustainable migration policy. These are also familiar messages. Chancellor Angela Merkel said at a press conference after the summit in Malta, and I quote: "We have learned the lessons from the 2015 and 2016 experiences. We must fight illegal migration, human smugglers and mafia structures. In practice, Merkel proposes to develop migration partnerships to prevent illegal migration, to support countries neighbouring crisis zones that overcome the root causes of migration and issue migrants, consistent with the Hungarian position from the beginning of the migration crisis. Meanwhile, it has been proven that the EU-Turkey agreement does not work, clearly does not provide full protection against migrant flows, but rather that Germany has practically increasingly criticised Turkey, the Turkish partner. Germany and Brussels must now recognise that it is illusory to base migration policy only on this Turkish-EU agreement. Instead, it must be recognised that blocking the Western Balkans migration route is an essential condition for the southern border closure to be strengthened, as our country has always represented. This is the real way, and this is what Europe must represent. However, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that Chancellor Merkel, at his meeting with the regional prime ministers on 9 February, stressed that the consistent implementation of the expulsion of rejected asylum seekers is very important and that expulsions should be accelerated. Currently, about 40% of asylum applications are rejected in Germany. Technically, where it has not been established that migrants need protection, those people have to leave the country. Mr Horst Seehofer CSU President, Bavarian Prime Minister, agreed with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, has long consistently urged the strengthening of Europe's external border protection and the creation of conditions for asylum procedures at the external borders. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They will not be grateful that we were right from the beginning, but I feel that by going in the same direction, we have certainly come closer to a solution. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr Mihály Balla if he will accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-20-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, for your reply. Of course, I accept it, especially because, on the one hand, Hungary has pursued a very consistent policy against illegal immigration in recent years, and on the other hand, there has been an important support for this policy when 3.3 million Hungarians supported the idea that the referendum against forced resettlement confirmed the position represented by the government and Parliament's pro-government representatives. On the other hand, it is very important that there has been agreement over the past period on the part of Germany, on the one hand, and on the other, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the part of the various Member States of the European Union, when we talk about the need to stop this flood, we must stop the wave of immigration which may be [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In the spring, when it is strengthened, it will try another difficult test on border protection, on the one hand, and on the European Union on the other. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member László Teleki, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. The operationality of the Hungarian economy is seriously threatened by the increasing shortage of labour! It's an address. Congressman László Teleki has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-20-111	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, More and more people hear that the Hungarian economy is seriously threatened by labour shortages. In the long term, this situation, i.e. chronic shortage of professionals, is not good for the economy. That's very unfortunate. Most of the missing professions, especially because of the shortage, no longer require a degree from employers, often a practical, ambitious course or a OKJ degree is enough to successfully get a job. In many cases, this phenomenon results in a deterioration of quality. A rapid acquisition of new knowledge is a necessary but not sufficient condition for well done work. Because there is nothing that can replace lack of practice and experience. In these cases, the already well-known fact that good professionals have already left the country and are seeking their welfare somewhere abroad, in another Member State of the European Union. The shortage of professionals is now a competitive disadvantage for Hungary. At present, some experts in the IT world believe that there are up to 20,000 professionals missing. This is a great deal, and accordingly, the missing professionals are unable to be replaced by a crowd of mostly career-starters who are out of higher education. That is why the academys that teach applicants to program in a few months with intensive programmes are now spreading, so that they can easily be placed in an IT company. This training of firefighting professionals is not a solution to structural skills shortages. The recent research of a large multi-enterprises in the field of OKJ and adult education shows what are the professional groups most affected by labour shortages. For example, the economic, commercial, IT, engineering and education groups that suffer from such a shortage of labour. If you look at the shortage in counties, you can also see that there is a shortage of welders, carpenters, bakers, livestock workers, waiters, vehicle polishers, or car mechanics in many counties. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State when we will be able to see real results from the VET transformation that has been taking place for almost six years. It seems that in six years, the government has not been able to resolve the issue of access to the labour market for vocational education and training, which would be expected of the economy. How long will Hungary's economy be at a competitive disadvantage because of the growing shortage of professionals? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-03-20-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-20-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, A significant proportion of employers worldwide, including in Europe, face difficulties in finding the right workforce, and it is also a global trend that skilled workers are the most difficult to fill. Nearly two thirds of employees in Hungary do such work. However, thanks to our efforts, the unemployment rate has fallen to 4.3 percent since 2010 with a steady increase in employment and the number of workers. I would like to remind you that, at the time of your governance, this indicator was 11,6 percent in 2010, at the time of the change of government. In terms of employment, just over 3 million 700 000 people worked in your time, and now more than 4 million 400 000 people are working on the Hungarian labour market. So we are doing everything we can to ensure that everyone who wants to find a job can find a job for themselves and all the labour needs that employers have in relation to the labour market can be met. The consequences of labour demand include increasing wage increases and rising wage levels from region to region. The government has taken decisive steps to reduce labour migration, so since 2010, we have had the highest minimum wage increase in Visegrád countries, which, as you know, is expected to continue in 2018, especially in skilled workers' jobs. The impact of this targeted wage increase, and the increased recognition of high-quality professional work, can be predicted by a significant increase in the proportion of those involved in vocational training. In parallel with economic recovery, the government also started to develop the vocational training system in 2010 by transforming vocational training and technical training, rethinking vocational qualifications and developing a schooling system focusing on skills shortages. Within the framework of new measures, the government has significantly expanded access to vocational training by broadening adult education, introducing the free acquisition of second qualifications, extending the dual training system at company sites, and developing new qualifications and vocational training based on economic signals. In the next period, the government will focus on supporting shorter-cycle training, retraining and further training for flexible adaptation, with significant resources available for both large companies and small and medium-sized enterprises. [[16.00]] The main aim of these trainings is to increase productivity and thus competitiveness by creating conditions for higher added value work, in addition to reducing labour shortages. Honourable Congressman, In order to significantly reduce labour shortages, we have introduced a number of measures, as I have just mentioned, over the last few years, which can lead to and result in positive effects in the short to long term. We have succeeded with continued efforts, but of course there is still work to be done, so we will continue to flexibly adapt vocational training to labour market needs, both within the framework of school-based training and within the framework of adult education, so the question that you have asked is: [[Lajos Korózs:... that's not a question.]] How we can ensure labour demand, labour demand in the labour market, I think it is secure and therefore there is no need to worry. Let me give you another number that is worth comparing: in 2008-2009 there were about the same number of vacant jobs on the Hungarian labour market as today, so there is nothing more demanding than there was at the time of your administration. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr László Teleki if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2017-03-20-115	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I cannot accept his answer because he is not aware of what problems there are in the country in, say, the Ormany or in any area, and they do not want to identify with the problems in the country. Come to the country and see what the employment situation looks like. [[Peter Cseresnyés laughs. Dr. Bence Rétvári: He lives there!]] I haven't seen the Secretary of State in Nagykanizsa very much for three weeks now, so from now on I think it is important to visit areas where unemployment has been really strained and the lack of vocational training is present in the region. Therefore, this answer cannot be accepted, and I believe that not only the Secretary of State's reply, but also a warning signal must be given by half of the government that they do not abandon the voters who voted for you, at least not those who have failed them in the past period. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-20-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's answer. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 102 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. It's 16 hours and 3 minutes, which brings us to the end of the interpellations. I am now ordering a two-minute technical break in order that all my fellow Members who leave the Chamber to deal with their urgent official affairs can do so as quickly as possible and that the hour of immediate questioning should then continue without delay. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the meeting room.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Member László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question:. What did President 2 think? It's an address. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he will accept the Vice-President as a responder or wait for the President's personal reply here in Parliament. You have the floor, please.
u2017-03-20-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll wait for Mr. President.
u2017-03-20-118	Thank you very much. Mr President will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Teleki, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: - Why does the government save Florian Farkas? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask Congressman if he accepts the answer. Mr. Congressman, by means of metacommunication, you are telling me that you accept Secretary of State Bence Rétvári as a response. Congressman László Teleki has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-20-119	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I've asked you a number of times what's going to happen to Flórian Farkas. Will the HUF 1.6 billion that you have disposed of in connection with the management of the National Roma Municipality be asked for? You have never given an answer that would reassure the public that, yes, you would want to deal seriously with this issue. I have said many times that this question is important not only because criminally what will result from the theft that could be experienced in the National Roma Municipality, led by Flórian Farkas, but it is also important to reassure the public. Today, the perception of Gypsyism in Hungary is at a low point in the country, and this is thanks to you, thanks to the governance that you have implemented in this case. In this case, they didn't say "a" and "b," and society doesn't know what it is about Wolf Floran theft. The only thing they know is that gypsies steal money when they get their hands on it. Dear Secretary of State, I am asking you - I think you are a very serious man - to try to reassure citizens who see nothing else behind this right now but that Flórian Farkas, a Roma man, has stolen, and so the generalization has begun to a great extent. So that's why I'm saying that the thing I'm talking about is at a low point. So it is not possible to create a situation in Hungary today, or it can be, because you are trying to do this to further condemn the Roma community in Hungary, whose integration problems are large enough either in employment or in education or in health care systems. It is your fault that education today is in the position it is in, because its perception of the Roma in Hungary is what it is because of Flórian Farkas. Therefore, I ask the Secretary of State, I ask the Government to change the policy that he has so far represented against Flórian Farkas, and to initiate a real procedure, a procedure that can prove that he is guilty and that he is not. Because that's the most important element of this thing. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-20-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-20-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is also a priority for the government to maintain the functionality of the National Roma Municipality. It also provided support for this in the second half or at the end of last year. It is important that the National Roma Municipality itself contributes to the possibility of maintaining this operation by partially selling the property of its own property, and it is also important that the programmes that can help people of Roma origin and mostly of Roma origin should also run well. I'd split up the different perceptions here. Maybe someone has some kind of idea about a person, but it's not good to project it on a whole community. I do not think I need to explain in particular why this is important on this issue. I am not aware that Flórian Farkas has been held responsible in any proceedings. Our ministry, when there was an EU programme, started several investigations there, ten to twelve or more, found various irregularities there, and our wallet also stopped this support project, but did not establish any personal responsibility for Flórian Farkas. At least I don't know about that; if you know anything else, in your rejoinder, please tell me. At the same time, it is important that these programmes, which also help Gypsy people and help people living on the edge of society, are effective. After all, if we look at how many people under the age of 17 are at risk of poverty or social exclusion, this has decreased from 43 per cent in 2013 to 33 per cent in 2016. It's a visible result. The proportion of children in kindergarten increased from 87.8 to 90.2 percent. A successful catching-up project can be considered as the, Commissioner, since 14,000 children turn around at least once, and children who visited them at least four times a month were 9278, of which 8767 were under five years old, all successful catching-up projects. I think that they should be taken into account and acknowledged. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[16.10]]
u2017-03-20-122	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, and I would ask you to take care of your time frame. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Teleki.
u2017-03-20-123	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think you're deliberately misinterpreting me. I am not looking for responsibility in a criminal way at the moment, it is not our job for politicians, but the responsibility of you politicians on the government, that if anyone is found out, it will not be revealed, but a press report will be launched, here in Parliament there have been countless speeches, then I think it is your political responsibility to take account of or withdraw the orders that have been issued. A lot of politicians have seen the light or the shadow cast on them. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It doesn't matter!]] At that point, his mandate or his mandate was immediately revoked. You are not doing this, so you are being politically irresponsible in this matter, because if the same situation happened to another civil society organisation, there, I think, there would be investigations that you would definitely be following up on, and I would ask that the authorities pay more attention to, but in this case they will not, and this will sadden the Roma population in Hungary, but it will also sadden the majority, because generalisation can continue to do so much longer.
u2017-03-20-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-20-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to say some more things, why we take responsibility. We take responsibility for the fact that the proportion of early school leavers among Roma youth fell from 64 percent to 59 percent between 2013-15. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] We also take responsibility for the fact that 13 270 underprivileged students were able to receive assistance in the Travel Scholarship Programme. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: Answer the question! Where's the money?]] 50 percent of them are Roma. It is also because not 114 but 296 disadvantaged Roma students are now able to operate in the Christian Roma College Network, primarily Roma students, and we take responsibility for the fact that the proportion of 18-59-year-olds living in a non-employed household, for whom there was no work, has decreased from 48% to 29 percent among the Roma population. We are happy to take responsibility for these positive developments. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, the representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Can we expect a paradigm change? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Sándor Fazekas to respond to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding person or waits for the Prime Minister to be present in Parliament. Here you go.
u2017-03-20-127	Thank you, Mr. President, but I'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2017-03-20-128	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member and the House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sebestyén, representative of Jobbik, who wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question, "Do you hear the voice of those involved?" It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask if you'll accept the person of the responder.
u2017-03-20-129	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2017-03-20-130	Mr Sebestyén Csító indicates that he accepts Secretary of State Bence Rétvári as a responder, so you have the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-20-131	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'd expose another conspiracy, expose a secret conspiracy. Just like the Socialist Vice President of the Social Welfare Committee, I received a letter from the women's defense. Here I have received more than 400 letters from the staff of the women's services involved and working in the field. The request that has been made to us is acceptable and acceptable, and the situation that is currently in place is unfair and unfair. We are talking about 5,000 workers who provide basic health care in the country, and they do not receive their salary on the basis of the health bill, but are paid and paid less. I would like to mention a few figures: if you look at the average, you will get about 80,000 forints less than the healthcare worker with the same education, the same year and in the same category. That's 80,000 forints. I think they can be appreciated for their request to be classified on the basis of the health pay table, their wages being paid on this basis. Why is this relevant and appreciated? It can be appreciated because there have been a lot of legislative changes in recent years, which have resulted in additional tasks, additional tasks and additional tasks, even as part of the child protection signalling system. They are very important and indispensable parts of the child protection warning system, which is also a reason, a reason to appreciate their work and to resolve the unfair situation they are in. Last week, we made a proposal for a resolution with my fellow Members, which is exactly what we asked for their classification and wages to be based on the health pay table, and their salaries will be paid on this basis. This represents an additional expenditure of HUF 4-5 billion per year for the state register. My specific question is whether you will accept this proposal and support our motion that the women in the field receive their salaries on the basis of the health pay table. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-20-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-20-133	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Firstly, as has already been said today, the government has indeed seen the defence network as a hungaricum, a very important institution, and has endeavoured in recent years to provide additional funding to the women in charge, when there was an extra budget opportunity, and, as I have said, and I will even say, it has done so year after year. I just have two questions. Why didn't Jobbik ever support us when we raised the funding for the women? My second question is that obviously this issue is now being raised because doctors working in health care, nurses working in health care, receive large increases in wages and increases in the wages of health care workers, and, therefore, obviously, the women in health care, who are in the form of financing similar to the general public, were not previously part of the pay table, but were already in such a job financing, in a different system, in a system similar to that of general health professionals, they can see how well health workers are expanding their earnings year after year. Obviously, this is a long process, we have a lot to do in this area, we will not be able to reach the target by 2019 in relation to the four-year wage increase programme, but I would ask Jobbik why he has not supported health wage increases in the past. Why didn't you support it when nurses or doctors were supposed to raise wages? Why did you vote off all the women's women's wage increases so far? And now they're gonna stand up and say they're gonna ask for a higher wage for the women in charge. You have never had any support in the process of raising the funding of the women's defenses at national level from HUF 17 billion to HUF 25 billion to HUF 28 million. 7 billion 63 million forints, with which we now spend more on women's funding than we spent when Jobbik got into Parliament, yet Jobbik never once supported these increases. But we want to continue to do so, whether Jobbik supports it or not, both in health care and elsewhere, and even, as has been said today, we want to guarantee it, and even do not want it, we have a guarantee last year. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in the form of a regulation to give this surplus directly to the women in charge. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Sebestyén. Here you go.
u2017-03-20-135	I thought that, according to the house rules, the immediate question was the genre in which the Member asked the Ministry, whether the Minister or a State Secretary, was not a reverse case. We have not supported the budget, we have not been able to accept the budget, and this is part of the increase, so we have not been able to support it. It can be appreciated that because they provide basic health care, they receive their salary according to the billboard. You know very well, Mr. Secretary of State, how much wage tension there is in addition to the social security system, as well as in the protective service, you know very well that the minimum wage, the HUF 161 thousand, will have to work for how many years by the time you reach it. For several years, the defense woman working in the field earns the same amount as her colleague who entered the profession at that time. I asked a specific question, I expected a concrete answer, I did not get a specific answer. I ask you, Secretary of State, to answer directly and openly: do you support whether or not the women in charge will receive the rightful wage on the basis of the health pay table? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-20-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go. [[16.20]]
u2017-03-20-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If it had been a better government in recent years, we would have spent 7 billion 63 million forints less on women's funding. Jobbik did not support any of our measures, nor did we increase the score in 2012 from 279 to 315 forints, nor did we increase territorial protection funding by an average of 13 800 forints in 2013, nor the HUF 28 400 in 2014 total HUF 1.75 billion, nor the HUF 2 billion surplus last year, which meant HUF 30-35 thousand. We would also like to continue to do so, and we would like to increase it even more. Obviously, it is also a question, and it can be discussed, that it will be obtained in a system similar to general practitioners or similar to hospital doctors. One is apparently financing through a service provider and the other is financing under a pay table. The point is, let's spend more time on this. We did this with HUF 2 billion, and we will do it in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is the explanation? It's an address. Prime Minister Sándor Fazekas appointed Minister for Agriculture to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the Prime Minister for his answer in person. Here you go.
u2017-03-20-139	I'd like your answer in person.
u2017-03-20-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck and Members of the LMP, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, wish to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why is the government afraid of a referendum on enlargement? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Prime Minister Sándor Fazekas appointed Minister for Agriculture to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2017-03-20-141	If you don't mind, Minister, the Deputy Head of the Group has asked me to ask the Prime Minister for an answer personally, so we'd like to wait. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-20-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister must answer the question at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Representative of the LMP, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. In addition to food quality, we are at a disadvantage compared to Western Europe. The Prime Minister appointed Mr Nándor Csepreghy as State Secretary for his reply in response to an urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he will ask the Minister for an answer.
u2017-03-20-143	I accept Mr. Secretary of State, thank you very much.
u2017-03-20-144	Thank you very much. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-20-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr Minister has repeatedly pointed out the recent food safety and food quality scandal that the quality that distributors receive in Western Europe is simply different. I wanted to point out, with my immediate question, that there are many other differences in the food chain compared to Western Europe. One such difference is that workers in Western Europe who produce the same products in many cases make around four times the current minimum wage in the food industry. Obviously, this is not just about how and under what circumstances, with what components, within the national legislation, the background of transport, but also about who is doing it. What is it that we expect these multinational food manufacturers to represent one quality in Hungary, but the Hungarian government does not strive to receive the same income here as those working in this industry? My question is, why is it that if we expect the same quality in the food industry, we do not try to provide workers with equal wages. The May Other Politics has often drawn attention to the fact that, even in an interpellation today, I have tried to draw attention to the fact that the employment policy of Fidesz-KDNP, which basically relies on public work and on the subsidiaries of multinational companies in Hungary, is a failed strategy, since it is a persistently low labour pay for Hungarian workers. Basically, it appears that this will only be withdrawn if the minimum wage in Hungary reaches a minimum of EUR 1500-1600, and then there is a partial chance that people paid at the same level can produce these foods and partly contribute to the depopulation of the countryside, internal migration and the outcome of Hungarian citizens abroad. I respectfully ask when it is expected that a meaningful step will be taken in this. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-20-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-20-147	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as you have pointed out, the topic that has been very serious about the public speech of the past few weeks is the quality of food in the Eastern Central European and Western European markets of large western European food companies. More and more previous opinions are confirmed that despite the fact that there is no difference in the price and packaging of products between a product on the shelf of a Hungarian and an Austrian shopping centre, there is a significant difference in the quality of the two products. Thus, the difference that can be seen in Western Europe in terms of standard of living or, where appropriate, in terms of earnings is in no way reflected in the pricing of products. However, I believe that the issue of the employment and wage conditions of trade networks should not be confused here with the question of the marketing of products in trade. This is indeed a good question, it was not a coincidence that the government touched the wage conditions by raising the minimum wage last year. However, this was the result of a tripartite agreement involving employers, workers and government actors. We believe that the issue of wages should essentially be an employment and free market issue. The State can always contribute, to the extent of the budget concerned, through contributions, to the real creation of wage conditions by market participants, which, if necessary, seeks to reduce the difference that is currently found between the pay conditions in Western Europe and Central Eastern Europe at some level. I think that the difference between the pay conditions in Western Europe and Eastern Europe will be resolved much later than the standard of living that people can earn in Eastern Central Europe or Western Europe. I consider the latter to be much more important for the government or for welfare measures. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Sallai R. Benedict. Here you go.
u2017-03-20-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honour, Secretary of State. In your reply, you mean that it has nothing to do with how much Hungarian people earn, what food products they can afford. The basic concept on the question is whether what you want to achieve is expected and manage, that the same quality of food, the same range of products that multinational companies provide in Hungary as in Western Europe, can be achieved if neither the workers who produce it receive the same income as their colleagues in Western Europe nor the purchasing power in the Hungarian market have the same background. Our basic claim is that good quality, healthy food supply in Hungary will be possible if the market puts health-preserving consumption culture first. This can be achieved if they receive decent wages, not the price preference will determine the purchase items in the first place. The issue clearly goes beyond the double standard in Western Europe, but our statement is basically that as long as the Hungarian people are poor and do not earn as much as their western European colleagues, there is no substantial improvement in both food quality and turnover. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-20-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is for Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go.
u2017-03-20-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I fully agree with Mr President, but his logical reasoning would be true if today there was a significant difference in the prices of the same products in comparison between Hungary and Austria and between Hungary and Germany, as there is a difference in the quality of these products. That's not what we're seeing today. Today we see that the same product in the same packaging, in the same quantity package, costs the same amount in Hungary as in Austria, but its quality is very different. It is worth discussing, as you say, how a government can shift consumers to healthier food with different programmes, tax policy measures or other measures, but the point of the debate now is whether multinational companies can do the same product in a lower quality for the same price in Hungary. The government's intention, and the proposals that Parliament is going to discuss today and in the near future, is about how a government can use the various means at its disposal to stop this. We will also ask for LMP's support for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before we go any further, allow me to welcome from here our fellow Members Alexander, Joseph and Benedict and wish them God's blessing on their lives. Dear Parliament, Member Répássy Róbert, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. How can we protect the institution of the legal banner in international fora? It's an address. Minister Pál Völner has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. Congressman indicates that he accepts Mr Secretary of State as a responder. Congressman Robert Répássy has the floor. [[16.30]]
u2017-03-20-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On 14 March, the European Court of Human Rights sentenced Hungary to a fair settlement of EUR 10 000 per person, or more than HUF 3 million, for which two Bangladeshi asylum seekers had to wait one day to assess their asylum application in the Röszke transit zone. My fellow Members have heard: they did not have to wait months or years for asylum seekers, as in Western European or Scandinavian countries, but they were just a few hours of uncertainty about their acceptance of their application. Similarly, the judicial review of the asylum decision took place in three weeks, during which time asylum seekers had long since left Hungary and moved on to their destination. So a day's waiting in a transit zone is worth HUF 3 million, according to the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, with Hungary acting according to the law of the European Union. Both the transit zone administration and the safe third country were defined in accordance with European Union law. If that were not the case, the Commission of the European Union would have already initiated infringement proceedings against Hungary. Dear Secretary of State, I am asking how, under these circumstances, the government can protect the legal lockdown institution in international fora, while, as I have said, the European Union Commission has not raised any objections to the implementation of a regulation of the European Union. The regulation of the European Union provides that a transit zone may be used for administration and that asylum applications may be accepted in a transit zone, and that the transit zone may be designated for the duration of the examination of the asylum application. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-20-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. Before I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner for his answer, I thank you for your cooperation and I will give the chair to Vice-President Sándor Lezsák. Here you go. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2017-03-20-155	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-20-156	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the European Court of Human Rights has made a negative decision for Hungary. Technically, it has come to this decision through an extreme human rights interpretation. However, the judgment is not final. Pursuant to Article 43 (2) of the European Convention on Human Rights, the parties may, within three months, in the present case by 14 June, request the case to be referred to the Grand Chamber of Justice if the matter raises an important question concerning the interpretation or application of the Convention or its protocols or an issue which is otherwise of general importance. We believe that the EU legislation referred to by the Member is achieving this level, so it is absolutely legitimate to present a review. This request is decided by the five-member judicial body of the court, which, based on the experience gained so far, supports the review of cases by the Grand Chamber, where the case raises new legal questions or concerns the internal coherence of case law, the Chamber's judgment differs substantially from the previous case law, raises the need to clarify the principles previously set out, and may concern issues of European or global importance. In our view, the issue of migration is of European importance, which in itself could also provide the basis for a review of the Grand Chamber. Hungary has always complied with international treaties, and we will continue to do so in the future. Of course, we do not agree with the judgment and the review will be submitted within the deadline. I would also note that the legislation involved in the judgment is in line with the Basic Law, and its unconstitutionality has not been established by the Constitutional Court. The Parliament recently adopted its tightening up, which Mr President has signed, and will soon be published in the Hungarian Gazette and will enter into force. Thank you.
u2017-03-20-157	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Répássy Róbert is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder.
u2017-03-20-158	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The reason this case is important, this legal issue, is because I could describe the transit zone to you as the airport transit waiting. So as long as the Hungarian authorities do not allow a person to enter Hungary, he will have to wait in the transit waiting room. Now imagine that, according to the European human rights court, this waiting in the transit zone is illegal detention, and, as I said, one day cost the Hungarian state, the Hungarian taxpayers, HUF 3 million. So I urge the government to do everything in its power to defend our position, because the end will be that even those waiting in the airport transit waiting room will have to pay for them not to enter Hungary. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-20-159	Thank you, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder shall also be granted to the Secretary of State.
u2017-03-20-160	Thank you. As you said, Mr President, the absurdity of the judgment is demonstrated by the fact that any Hungarian citizen would undertake so much inconvenience against 3 million forints if it were a violation of the law. It should be stressed that the Hungarian legislation questioned by the judgment was built on the basis of EU law, so EU law and the judgment are also in conflict. Practically, the findings of the judgment threaten the fundamental functioning of the EU asylum rule. In fact, in a broader context, this judgment also calls into question the policy orientation for migration crisis management set out by EU Member States' leaders, based on ensuring control over external borders and halting irregular migration flows. Overall, therefore, we want to seize all the opportunities provided by law in order to protect the institution of the legal border closure, thereby protecting the European Union and Hungarian citizens. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-20-161	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, József Attila Móring, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question:. What are the cycling development priorities in the coming years? The Minister asked Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, to answer the question for his urgent public service. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[For signal:]] I'm surprised you'll accept it. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-20-162	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The news has spread among biking organisations that the government, together with EU funds, will spend up to tens of billions of HUF on new bicycle roads, upgrading existing ones, connecting them to the European network and developing bicycle-friendly infrastructure by 2020. Last year, my fellow Member, László Szászfalvi, asked the Ministry about the renovation of the Hungarian section of the bicycle route 6 from Lake Balaton and from the Atlantic to the Black Sea, from France to Bulgaria, including our country. I would now like to appeal to the Secretary of State about other improvements. Among these are the construction of Lake Balaton-Fertő bike road and the cycling path of the Tisza-tavi region, and the construction of the Hungarian section of EuroVelo Road 14. The latter means that from the Guard in Zalaegerszeg, Lake Balaton, Eger, Tiszántúl and Debrecen, the cycling paths of Hungary can be connected to two European networks. The region of Lake Tisza may be particularly important because visitors spend around 300,000 guest nights each year in the region. Dear Secretary of State, The development of the bicycle road network into a single system, the linking of old and new roads, serves earlier goals. That is why I ask you with respect what the cycling development priorities are in the coming years. How much money can be spent to build and maintain a bicycle road network by 2020? Thank you very much.
u2017-03-20-163	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-03-20-164	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In the framework of the operational programme for spatial and urban development, cycling development for professional traffic is primarily possible. The invitation to tender places great emphasis on the development of the network, and it is important to connect to existing cycling facilities, thereby expanding the entire bicycle path network. [[16.40]] In the budgetary period up to 2020, there is a strong emphasis on the development of cycling routes for tourism purposes. Several programmes will be implemented. Without the need for completeness: we close the Tisza-tavi cycling circle, the permissions for the missing section between Tiszafüred-Pruszló are available, it is expected that this year will begin and the construction will be completed in 2018. The tender for the development of EuroVelo 14, the new international cycling route, is currently being evaluated by the European Cycling Association. In case of a favourable decision, the preparation of the development may begin. In the first stage, small traffic routes are expected to be designated, and in the future, separate construction is planned. Between Lake Fertő and Lake Balaton, we have selected 131 km long cycling routes for the connection between Fertőd and Keszthely, with which cycling connections are established between the two tourist regions of Hungary. The development will be carried out mainly here by using small traffic roads and by signing out this year. If you'll excuse me, I'll tell you about the rest in a minute. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-20-165	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will give the floor to Congressman József Attila Móring for a moment.
u2017-03-20-166	Thank you very much. The Christian Democratic People's Party considers the issue of environmentally sound, healthy cycling, which reduces the burden of overcrowded roads in transport and development policy, and is a good and meaningful pastime in the lives of families. Of course, we know that improvements and road construction cannot happen in the blind world. It is important that both in Hungary and in connection with the European network of cycling paths, design and construction are part of a long-term concept, and thus a backbone network is created that can significantly improve and expand the opportunities offered by recreational cycling. Mr Secretary of State's reply convinced me that very significant improvements would continue to be expected in the near future. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-20-167	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Secretary of State has promised to continue in a minute.
u2017-03-20-168	Thank you, Mr. President. It is expected that around HUF 90-100 billion will be available for the implementation of the tourism and professional cycle development by 2020. The funding is made available through several EU programmes and the programmes of Modern Cities. The operation of the bicycle roads belonging to the national core network was taken over by Magyar Közút from 1 January 2017. The organisation carries out the operation of bicycle routes and the necessary renovations under an annual grant agreement with the Ministry of National Development. This not only expands the network, but also preserves the safe transport condition of the sections that have already been built. I think that this is a very significant step forward on the whole subject. Thank you for the attention of the House and the Member. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-20-169	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Imre Horváth, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. It's an address. The Minister asked Mr. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State. Do you accept the identity of the responder? [[For signal:]] Yeah. Then you have the floor, Congressman Horváth.
u2017-03-20-170	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Hungary is growing stronger, we hear it every day, we see it in the public media. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: On ATV!]] Stadiums are building, oligarchs are getting rich. However, the fate of nearly 3 million pensioners is not mentioned. Do you know that this year's 1.6 percent pension increase means less than a few hundred forints to those who receive only a few thousand forints? Do you know that sugar prices have increased by 22 percent in recent months, pork prices have increased by 15 percent, firewood prices have increased by 4 times in 10 years? In addition, pensioners are affected by their tightening up in the area of social care and the current state of health. The use of home care has been tightened so that as few people as possible have access to care. In order to enter nursing homes, millions of payments are required. Neither does the government say that hundreds of thousands of pensioners are receiving a low level of care that doesn't even reach the minimum of living. Older people in Hungary today have worked decades before. But why did the pension rise so much this year when they knew, and they already knew last fall that inflation would be much higher this year, so it is not even true that pensions have increased with inflation, not to mention that there is something else in the budget. [[In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs will be replaced by József Attila Móring.]] I ask the Secretary of State why pensioners are not compensated for this. Why don't they care about the pensioners? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-03-20-171	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-03-20-172	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You were not here at the Parliament when your party, each representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, expressed its opinion on the pension increase for pensioners here in the horseshoe, among the seats, and each one voted in a roll-call vote to take a month's pension from pensioners. This was, I think, the biggest break in the post-system change period in terms of the value of pensions. Fortunately, after 2010, there was another period, of course there was an important measure, which is important for pensioners as well, the introduction of the 40, women. This was where your party partners did not, without exception, support the introduction of the. Women's 40. But regardless of all this, the government has undertaken to preserve the value of pensions. This has been overachieved, as the value of pensions has increased, and in the coming years we will also undertake to maintain the value of pensions. We have created a system in which inflation will be higher or lower, pensioners will not suffer ill, but they will benefit from this system. This is how pensions may have increased by 23.1 percent between 2010 and 2016, and if I look at inflation and the increase in purchasing value, it is 9.5 percent, so it exceeds the amount of one month's pension. In addition, the reduction in rent for a retired couple in a condo with heating and hot water and gas meters meant HUF 88,000 per year in a district heating apartment, saving HUF 83 thousand per year and saving HUF 116 thousand in a family home. [[Moray and Intercoms from the lines of the MSZP: How do you count?]] In the framework of the Erzsébet programme, however, we were able to provide 42,000 people in the year 16 in the previous years with a total low value of 35 thousand or 58 thousand people with a kind of holiday option in addition to the pension, even in a spa. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Time, Mr President, we cannot listen to this! Time!]] For the Action Plan on the Protection of Jobs [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And I'd like to return to the rest in just one minute, because there are a lot of measures to list. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-20-173	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-03-20-174	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr State Secretary, I started my question by saying that Hungary is growing stronger and performing better. You've been ruling for the seventh year, not doing things in a positive direction, but tightening things up. There's no time to tell me what kind of restrictions they've brought. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: What did they take?]] For example, they took away the travel discount for disabled pensioners, and I could list at least 15 aspects that have been taken away, and the rest, and the rest. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Erika Szűcs!]] This is a very important question. They interpret the relationship between the consumer basket and inflation differently, or should I say that Elizabeth vouchers were distributed in America, the United States, burned about 300 million forints, which pensioners there cannot use. I ask Mr. Secretary of State once again, why does the government torment small pensioners? Why don't you care about old, sick people? Thank you very much.
u2017-03-20-175	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State shall have a one-minute rejoinder. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: Put the paper down! Speak honestly.]]
u2017-03-20-176	Thank you very much for the floor. I see the congressman has already smiled at his own question here at the end. Honourable Congressman, Has the removal of the 13th month pension reduced or increased the amount of pensions? [[Rumors and interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP: Did you give it back?]] It's reduced. Has the purchasing value of pensions decreased or increased since the Fidesz-KDNP government recently? As I said, the value of pensions increased by 23 percent, and the value of the buyer was 9.5 percent. [[Intercoms from the lines of the MSZP: Decreased!]] You said it was reduced. [[16.50]] Please get it to me. [[Intercoms in the benches of the MSZP.]] Give me a calculation, any calculation. You said now that the value of pensions has decreased. Make sure you get a calculation that shows this. Any meaningful calculation that shows that what the MSZP is saying here is true. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] He won't know any! Just as it was untrue when you said that access to home assistance was reduced. Do you know how they fell? 40 percent more people use it, and 100 percent more caregivers take care of the elderly. [[Nándor Gúr: Don't tell me. Sit down, Bence. One!]] We have doubled the number of caregivers involved in home care, and 40 percent more people can use it. So much for the credibility of the socialists. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much.
u2017-03-20-177	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, a representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. What is happening in the former Mint? It's an address. The Minister asked Mr. Tibor Pogácsás Secretary of State to reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[For signal:]] Congressman Kepli says yes. You have the floor.
u2017-03-20-178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Every month, newer and more serious cases of environmental pollution are revealed, and I would now like to draw attention to and ask for information from the Secretary of State on this matter, which is not too small, given that Annex VIII is the case. district, in the heart of Ferencváros , in the area bordered by Groupama Arena, Népliget and Heim Pál Children's Hospital, we are talking about the area of the former mint, from which various dangerous and toxic substances have recently been released through the sewer system, there is no way to know what kind of company it is from, but the fact is that there was a smelling effect, a reeking effect on the area in which the apartment had to be abandoned by several residents, and disaster protection had to be called out. Disaster control has conducted an on-site investigation, and the Channel Works have washed the sewer system several times since then. Since there are also suitable locations, children's hospital, bus station and residential areas in the neighbourhood for mass events, it is very important that the population can see clearly what has happened, what is happening in the former mint area, where we know that there are companies with precious metals, various electroplating activities and dangerous substances, toxic activities. Among other things, cyanides are used, which can be extremely toxic. Therefore, in order to reassure the population, it is important that the Secretary of State responds to the question of what the authority under the supervision of the Ministry of Interior has identified in relation to the particular pollution, and whether any of its residents are in danger, whether this could be dangerous to their lives, health, and what measures have been taken as a consequence of this matter, in this context. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-20-179	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2017-03-20-180	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The local patriots must have gotten their heads up. Annex IX is amended as follows: district of Ferencváros, the VIII. The district is Józsefváros, and the area concerned is also in Józsefváros. He's in the district. But what is more important is that there was indeed a kind of odor effect and a small amount of material, ethylene oxide contamination, but the population was not in danger for a moment. The Metropolitan Disaster Protection Directorate was out during the announcements. In the former State Mint, Metal-Art Némesfélipari Zrt. which is considered to be a plant for hazardous substances below the threshold. According to the announcement received on the 20th, the mobile lab found that this ethylene oxide was detectable and that the odor effect was detectable. On the following day, the odor effect was repeated, but no dangerous substance was detected by instrumental measurements at that time. And on the 23rd, there was another announcement that neither the presence of the dangerous substance was detected nor the smell effect. The Metropolitan Disaster Protection Directorate informed on-the-spot reporters of the results of the measurements. A measure aimed at protecting the population has not had such an impact. At the same time, the Metropolitan Channels were also involved in the investigation by the Disaster Protection Directorate and in the control of odor effects. The sewer system has been washed and 11 sinkhole mines have been reeked, and since then these effects have been removed. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-20-181	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Kepli for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2017-03-20-182	Thank you very much. First of all, I apologize for the slip of the tongue about the districts. Of course, I did not want to violate anyone's self-esteem or local patriotism, but I wanted to ask this question in the interest of the local residents, since ethylene oxide, as far as I know, does not have the characteristics that the local people complained about. The smell of bitter almonds is more characteristic of cyanides and similar compounds. And there are, of course, several companies. We know that Metal-Art Zrt. the largest company in the area, and we also know that there has been a fine against the company in the past for the avoidance of more than 1000 cubic metres of unclean waste water, and that there is a procedure for environmental remediation, so it is likely that the area is not clear, and that there is probably a good deal to be done to ensure that from the inhabited environment, from the environment where there are so many exposed objects, such an activity is gradually but disappearing, and that the poisoning, the various pollutions can be eliminated and the population should not be at any risk to the least. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-20-183	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State in return.
u2017-03-20-184	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, Metal-Art Zrt. He has had a single environmental permit since 2006. This has been amended several times and the inspections carried out at the site are regular. The current environmental permit is valid until 30 January 2022 and, indeed, due to previous impurities, several requirements have been applied and applies to Metal-Art Zrt., which has been naturally verified. At present, it is the Department of Environment and Nature Protection of the Pest County Government Office, who is in the process and started the procedure on 4 November 2006 and on 9 December 2016 a check was carried out at the site on the basis of a declaration of public interest. The activities of those who work at the site are monitored by the authorities and guarantee the safety of the population. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-20-185	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: å Is this really what you wanted? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to answer. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-03-20-186	I'll take it.
u2017-03-20-187	Thank you. You have the floor, Congressman Hadházy.
u2017-03-20-188	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Recently, on 31 December, the national health fund was closed, and on 1 April, four other health organisations and institutions will be abolished. The National Centre for Epidemiology, the National Centre for Public Health, the National Office for Official Medicine and the National Institute for Health Development will also be abolished. We do not understand the reason for this. Actually, the question is, why are they doing this? We've already received an answer from you that there will be no layoffs, no layoffs, and the same number of people will continue to do this. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I didn't say that.]] Then you certainly don't understand, because we don't understand why you have to cause chaos, and in such a delicate area. Germs, viruses, have no brains, often the government doesn't have any, but they can understand very well how they can exploit each other's weaknesses, especially those of the government. The measles epidemic has appeared, it is also here in Hungary, and Mako has already had more than ten diseases. We do not understand how a National Epidemiology Center, an epidemiology centre, can simply be eliminated with such a good schedule, how to take away the professional background of this center, and why to leave the laboratory background alone. My second question is a professional question. Have you checked the vaccination status of doctors in hospitals near the border, what measures should be taken, how many people should be vaccinated, whether they have received adequate protection? Thank you very much.
u2017-03-20-189	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. [[17.00]]
u2017-03-20-190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would not comment on your metaphors, but I think it is important to point out that this government is committed to cutting red tape. It is important to cut red tape so that there is less bureaucratic institutions and, obviously, fewer institutions then require less bureaucrats. It's a long process, apparently. The government has progressed step by step in recent years. We heard the same voices at the time, honourable Member, when the government offices were established, that this would not work, that the administration would stop, that the affairs would not be dealt with. The cases have been handled, the administration works, the county government offices, and the county government windows, I think, are mostly for everyone's satisfaction, since they can handle matters much faster. If someone wants to carry out a home address card or any other administration, be more comfortable, in European circumstances, XXI. You can do it under centuries of age. There are several steps to this. One part of this is currently ongoing, partly implemented, partly in the coming weeks to months, is the reduction of the number of background institutions, and the background institutions that can be operated better within ministerial institutions, or better integrated, will function in the future. In the past, the health institution had 17 background institutions, the number of which fell to 12 in 2014-15. At the same time, a similar alarm bell was ringing, but this system could still function, but in a much more bureaucratic way. I see that the opposition parties, on the one hand, demand the reduction of bureaucracy, but when the government comes up with these proposals, they are always opposed, voted down, not supported, and politically attacked. You should decide whether the LMP believes in increasing bureaucracy or considers it important to reduce bureaucracy, to reduce people's administrative burden or to reduce public administration. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-20-191	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to Congressman Hadházy for a minute's rejoinder.
u2017-03-20-192	I didn't get much of an answer. Of course, this measure will not reduce bureaucracy. The fact that they're shutting down an office, tearing it apart, taking away powers, making a terrible mess, and you don't know what it's going to be, it's not cutting red tape. It's an act of coercion, so to speak, masturbation. They act like they're doing something in health care. Health needs everything but uncertainty in this institutional system. They're playing with fire. It's not just epidemics, it's radiation health, it's chemical protection. You know very well that these institutions have a job to do. It's good not to hear from them. It's a good thing we haven't heard from them. The fact that we've never heard of them before doesn't mean that they didn't work, but that they did good work. And if it's torn apart, there's a chance it won't happen in the future. Thank you.
u2017-03-20-193	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask Congressman Hadházy, with all due respect, to have the microphone picked up next time, because it was very beating. The Secretary of State is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder.
u2017-03-20-194	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We're not taking it apart, we're putting it together, honourable Member. So it's exactly the opposite of the process. Don't criticize what doesn't happen. If you want to criticize something, it's obviously worth starting from the real world. He said everything and the opposite of everything in these sixty seconds. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is not the institutions that have a job, but the state has a job in the field of health, education, economic or other. The state must perform this task in the most optimal way. Honourable Member, we are not farming with our own money, but with taxpayers' money. If you're in your own company or in any other way for a job that four people can perform, you hire five people, that's your heart's right, because you're doing it with your own money. But the state has four people to do the job with four people. If you're going to have five or six or seven people do the job now, you're going to have to cut red tape so that four people can do the job. And it's not the institutions, it's the tasks that matter here. Many similar modifications have already been successful in the past year. I trust you will see that this will be the same. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-20-195	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Under the item on the agenda, the final question follows. Mihály Witzmann, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. I ask the Member if he accepts the Secretary of State, Mr András Tállai, who has been appointed to be the responder. [[Mihály Witzmann: Yes.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman Witzmann.
u2017-03-20-196	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2010 change of government also brought Hungary a new economic policy and a new tax policy, as the Hungarian government not only regards the reduction of taxes as its primary task, but also to reduce the tax burden of taxpayers on tax returns and to make tax returns easier and easier for people. It is safe to say that the National Tax and Customs Office has reached a significant milestone both in taxation and taxation by preparing draft tax returns for individuals from this year. We can really call this a joyful historic moment in the history of domestic taxation, because it has been over 25 years since 1989, in fact, everyone has had to complete their own tax returns every year. I think it is absolutely right to expect that the data that is already available at the tax office should not be disclosed to citizens every year. The so-called e-Sya system affects some 3.8 million people, as this year all working citizens are prepared by the NAV for their draft tax returns. After that, taxpayers should only be able to verify the draft sent by post through the customer gate or, if they so wish, by post. Those who didn't ask for mail can ask for it in person at the IRS. In view of the fact that nearly two and a half million people now have access to and registration of a customer gate in Hungary, a very serious number of users should be calculated in the coming periods. The great virtue of the IT program applied by the IRS is that it fits in with the XXI. It will show the same image in the same form on the user requirements of the 20th century, i.e. mobile phones, tablets and personal computers used by most. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what changes and deadlines should be taken into account for taxpayers in the procedure for the draft personal income tax return in 2017. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-20-197	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2017-03-20-198	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you said, the government has promised the tax office, the tax administration, the citizens, the taxpayers. I think it was a historic moment on 15 March at 7 p.m., when anyone who had a customer's gate could see his tax returns at this moment. It is also unique in international comparison, created by the National Tax and Customs Office in Hungary: it prepared its draft declaration for 3.8 million taxpayers. What does the taxpayer do? The taxpayer's job is to get to know the draft tax return. The easiest thing, as you have said, is that anyone who has a customer's gate can look at it in a minute, look at his income in his own name, the taxes paid, and the balance of whether he has a tax to be paid or reclaimed. Two and a half million people can do this now, because so many people have customer gates. By the way, I would encourage taxpayers to switch as many people as possible, to create a customer gate, so they can submit their tax returns in a minute. Anyone who doesn't have it could ask for it on paper and still ask for it to this day. There are 617 thousand of these people, of which 345 thousand are texting asking the tax authorities to send the draft on paper. The IRS will do that by May 2nd. Overall, more than 170,000 people have visited the website until today, and more than half of them have already submitted their tax returns. This is a record compared to previous years. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-20-199	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Witzmann has a one-minute window.
u2017-03-20-200	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your detailed information and your reply. In addition, I think it is important to point out, however, that there is often a very common error in tax returns, including in my own personal knowledge, that, in some cases, a signature is simply missing in the document that has been organised for declarations, or, for example, in the case of sole proprietors, in the case of primary producers, an inadequate tax number or an original producer's ID number is given. I think that the application of this new system could be a good chance or a solution to avoid these small but more annoying mistakes, and indeed, the millions of individuals will have nothing to do from now on but to carry out the control and to continue to have one percent of their tax. [[17.10]] To sum up so far, I think we can safely trust that the measure in question will lead to simpler administration and less bureaucracy and less annoyance for the population. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-201	Thank you, Congressman Witzmann. Secretary of State, you have a one-minute rejoinder.
u2017-03-20-202	Thank you very much. If you are in a hurry, you can also file a tax return on your mobile phone here in Parliament, or at least arrange for the 2016 tax year by checking whether your income and the amount of the tax advance deducted are really real. If you do nothing, so you make a passive declaration, then on 22 May - and this is the exact deadline - this draft declaration becomes a declaration. I think that everyone should take the opportunity to look at the draft tax return, the service provided by the tax authority. The best thing to do is to click and send it to the tax authority, because then you will also receive a registration number indicating that you have completed your tax return. I took care of it myself from across the border in two minutes on March 15th at 8:00 p.m. I suggest that my fellow Members and Hungarian taxpayers follow me. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-203	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The item is closed. It is now time for the hearing of your request for inclusion in a series of articles. The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary to the T/13838 on the protection of public funds. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in a series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I will give the word to the author in a five-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. János Volner.
u2017-03-20-204	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We have now proposed to supplement Hungary's Fundamental Law with a fifth article in which we provide for an increased fight against corruption. As is well known, and as I said before my agenda, the damage directly caused by corruption is HUF 400 billion a year in Hungary, the damage in which either public procurement or public procurement or the distribution of various Community funds, the EU funds must be considered in the first place, involved by some policy makers and virtually disappearing the money. We have proposed to include the fight against corruption in the Fundamental Law as a priority, since it is a phenomenon that potentially reduces the growth potential of the Hungarian economy. What's this about? Corruption contrasts the Hungarian entrepreneurial society year after year because the state, as the largest customer of the Hungarian economy, likes to enter into contracts with those businesses that are close to fire, have good relations with politics, not with companies that are otherwise competitive on a market basis. Not with those who would be able to continue building their business as a competitive business, bringing innovation into the system, but with those who have good and close relations with politicians or their friends. It is therefore important to say that this is what we have done in this motion that public money is part of national wealth, the most important tool of our country is to exploit it for the public interest and for the needs of the Community. It is important to see that public funds can only be managed in accordance with the proposal in a publicly and verifiable manner, bearing in mind the requirements of economy, efficiency and effectiveness. It is very important to see that the public is one of the most important weapons in the fight against corruption. This does not include what the government has done in recent years, such as in the case of the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank. I would like to remind you here that these were the foundations where you said, Mr Lajos Kósa, that the money put into the foundations has lost its character in public money, and that is why it can no longer be controlled, since it is no longer public money. It is also very important to see that there are a lot of contracts, such as the issue of the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, where the government has basically encrypted everything from floor to attic, hidden everything from the public, and now, for example, in the case of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, as in the case of the largest ordering of the Hungarian economy, we can see that the details of this case are not known, and it is natural that, as a result, the issue of enlargement is surrounded by mistrust. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin will take her place in the notary's seat.]] It is also important to talk about why it is important to move forward on the issue of economy and efficiency and why we are asking our fellow Members for their support. For example, in the nationalization of public utility companies, we have seen that in several companies that have been created in the course of nationalisation, there have been no basic reports prepared, the management has not even intended to check how public funds are spent, and in a virtually hundreds of billion forints market is currently being managed without the State considering what is going on in these companies, does not measure the performance of the companies, does not measure efficiency, and does virtually nothing in order to do for a market-based company to try to spend money more effectively in order to make the operation more efficient. Last but not least, we ask, and this is perhaps the most important element of our proposal, that in any case, who makes public money disappear by means of these corruption crimes be incarcerated, in this way also deter politicians and their collaborators from disappearing public money to take people's money. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-20-205	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Pintér, Jobbik.
u2017-03-20-206	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to confirm what my fellow Member has said. Although I know that you, Fidesz Members, are very cold from our proposal, because in recent years you have been working to legitimise corruption, and our proposal is about abolishing these corruption cases at the highest level of law. Now I would like to raise four arguments to support our proposal, and yet I would like to convince you to oppose this corruption. You have rightly said in recent years that the Medgyessy, Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments have been the most corrupt government in recent years - they have been. Well, if you don't want any more corruption to happen at this level, please support our proposal. It's quite simply that simple. But in recent months, they have also said about subway 4 that we are facing the biggest corruption scandal in the world and in the century. If you do not want such a case of corruption to happen again, it is very simple, support our proposal. But I turn to my fellow Christian Democrats, and if you consider it the most important sermon to be serious, don't steal! You can support our proposal with a command word - that simple. [[17.20]] By the way, what Antal Rogán said he didn't steal public money, you can prove it now if you support our proposal. It's as simple as that. But it's so simple that if someone doesn't support this proposal now, then they vote for stealing. Those who support it vote for anti-corruption, purity. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-20-207	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre in two minutes, Fidesz.
u2017-03-20-208	Thank you very much for the floor. First of all, I would like to point out to Mr Volner that if he submits a bill, he should be kind enough to consider whether it is Article 5 or V, because, in my understanding, this is Article V, which aims to complement the Fundamentals and not to replace the Part of Freedom and Responsibility. Just as it doesn't matter whether it's Józsefváros or Ferencváros, it doesn't matter if it's Article 5 or V. In fact, it is possible to agree with its aims, but the only problem - because we do not support the bill - is that there is more in the current Fundamental Law, because it only wants to protect public money, but the property of the State and the local government in the Fundamental Law is national property, and then it is about protecting it. But since the object of ownership can be movable and real estate, and only part of the movable property is actually money itself, or if it's cash, then it's a claim, and nothing else stands out but that what we're protecting is the entire national property. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Haha!]] What you want to protect is purely public money. [[István Szávay: Amendments, Congressman!]] So right now, apart from the fact that there are specific provisions for this in the public money section - we are writing about this for a long time in the Fundamental Law - it would also create a problem of coherence. There is much more in the current Fundamental Law to protect national assets, so we do not support it. Otherwise, your goals could be agreed. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time. György Szilágyi: Time is up, Imre!]] On the other hand, what is associated with the restriction of personal freedom... [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] - Wait a minute. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] - they're writing about a measure, that's actually incomprehensible. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-03-20-209	Thank you very much, Congressman. In two minutes, we will hear from Congressman Sallai R. Benedict the position of the LMP.
u2017-03-20-210	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Mr. Volner, We have looked at the amendment and we think that it might actually be in the right direction, so that we can support the inclusion of this in the series. But I have to tell you, don't assume that the Jobbik is in control, but that the Fidesz is. That means if it goes into the Fundamental Law, they're gonna steal the same thing. So it is simply a matter of fact that a well-organized criminal group has been incorporated into Hungarian legislation, gained a government position, and the Hungarian legislation is basically called into the pen for the expansion of public wealth, and that is why they form legislation. The only problem with Jobbik's sanctions-oriented regulatory need is that there would be an opportunity at the moment to open proceedings for misappropriation or misappropriation. But there are no procedures. The problem is that legislation must not be created, but enforced. And at the moment, in a system where in 2015 the prosecution's prosecution statistics are 97.3%, in 2014 96.6%, in 2013 96.4 percent, in 2013 95.9 percent, in 12 - the prosecutor's office doesn't go for only 100 percent, for certain cases, and simply ignores them. He doesn't start these cases. What is it about Flórian Farkas, Antal Rogán, who is at large? That there will be no charges. It's not the lack of legislation, it's the lack of application. At the same time, we believe that this is an important public policy objective, which can only mean extra if the question of protecting public funds comes to a basic level. Basically, we can support inclusion in the series, but we are asking you to acknowledge that I am willing to accept that a fair government in Hungary would not steal because of good morals and not because of textual regulation. Obviously, this kind of approach cannot be expected from Fidesz-KDNP, so plus a textual line will not prevent Fidesz-KDNP from bringing the public assets home. He's done it, he's done it, he's still doing it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-20-211	Thank you very much, Congressman. Since no independent Member has applied, I'll ask you, among the authors... [[For signal:]] MSZP came forward [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Yes.]] - I'm sorry, I didn't see you at the last minute. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy in two minutes.
u2017-03-20-212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that, in addition to, of course, supporting the inclusion of this proposal in the subject series, since any proposal that attempts to reduce state corruption is supported by us. On the other hand, I agree with my fellow Member Sallai that these are not basically the rules that make this happen. So, indeed, until the D.A.'s office is willing to act, as long as the authorities are practically idly watching the state assets being distributed, it doesn't matter whether there's something written in the Fundamental Law as state property or as public money if it's stolen. This is what is happening here in Hungary today. We have also tabled an anti-corruption legislative amendment proposal, and we believe that it might offer a little more on this subject, since it is trying to cover several segments of this area or replace the hiatus, but any proposal, whether it be the amendment of the Fundamental Law or even the amendment of sectoral laws, which serves this purpose, we can support and support, especially, its inclusion in the series of subjects. If that happens, we will, of course, present an amendment to this in Parliament's debate, if any. But once again, I see that the problem is, first of all, what Congressman Sallai said. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-20-213	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, If I interpret the screen correctly, Gábor Staudt wishes to respond in two minutes on behalf of the authors. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-20-214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The fact is that since the change of regime, nearly three times the Hungarian government debt has disappeared on different black channels, perhaps even more. The system needs to be changed, but whatever we bring to Parliament is once too precise - why we are changing it - once too wide: when I submitted a proposal for a decision on unfaithful treatment to reconsider the facts, and I would have given the government the opportunity to think about what direction Imre Vas is going, he said at the Justice Committee's meeting why we set such a wide margin, why we do not ask exactly what the government should do. So both citizens and the opposition may feel that there is a hat on the bunny once and there is no other. And we've also heard that in one case they say that the D.A.'s office is doing well, that the laws are good; the only problem is that these money wouldn't disappear. One or at least one of the two must have serious shortcomings. So if the laws are good, then the D.A.'s office has to be accounted for, Peter Polt has to be canceled, or even a transformation has to create a prosecutor's system that is willing and able to track down crime, missing money. If, on the other hand, the D.A.'s office is doing its job perfectly, then the laws are wrong, and you can't handle them properly. Then we'll have to change the laws. But you are not doing this, and as I said, whatever we are putting forward, whether it is a constitutional amendment or a fundamental amendment, whether it is an increase in the sanctioning system of the penal code or a proposal for a decision that would give the government the opportunity to rethink facts, whether the misappropriation or the disappearance of public funds, is not good either. And if we put all this together, it's a good situation for you, and it's a good thing the public funds are disappearing. But believe me, this isn't going anywhere, and it won't be good for you in 2018, unless you change that. Thank you. [[Intruder from Jobbik's benches: That's right! A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-20-215	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, In line with the 2016 LXVIII on excise duty. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/14245 submitted by representatives of Dénes Galambos, Gábor Törő and Sándor Font Fidesz. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. [[17 .30]] Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Galambos, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-03-20-216	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 16 March 2017, the members held a debate on the 2016 LXVIII on excise duty. T/14245 amending Act No. About bill No. 1. The board of the house rules 46. It submitted an amendment and a summary report with 25 votes in favour, 1 against and 6 abstentions. The draft amending proposal contains a proposal for an amendment to the Economic Committee closing a detailed debate, which sets out substantive proposals in several places. In point 1 of the Opinion, it was clarified that, for the purposes of the excise rules, only those containing nicotine should be considered as filling fluids. In addition, the definition of new categories of tobacco products is added. The motion amends the entry into force of the excise law from 1 April 2017 to 1 July 2017. The other points contain technical amendments or provisions amending the transitional provisions necessary to amend the entry into force. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the above mentioned tobacco products, the proposed legislation, consisting of a total of 11 sections, contains a provision which is set out in sections 1 and 2 of the proposal. The question of alcoholic fruit used in the production of chocolate is addressed in the context of the fact that producers carrying out gardening activities who produce fruit for chocolate raw materials do not have a tax warehouse permit or a tax liability. In fact, this will help producers who do not belong to the category under which they would engage in activities subject to tax secrecy from the point of view of excise duty, but who do indeed engage in activities which are partly in the employment of stable workers and partly in seasonal employment. I would therefore ask you to support the adoption of the bill on the basis of the summation report of the Legislative Committee. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-217	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask if one of the authors, namely Dénes Galambos, Gábor Törő and Sándor Font, wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Here, I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Pigeon, the author.
u2017-03-20-218	Mr President, I would like to say at the end.
u2017-03-20-219	Okay, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary of State András Tállai.
u2017-03-20-220	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The primary objective of the bill before you is to ensure that, in the case of the use of alcohol without juice for chocolate production, as is currently the case, chocolate can continue to be produced without any type of excise licence. The secondary objective of the bill is to clarify the provisions of the excise law on manufactured tobacco. On the one hand, the amendment tabled by the Economic Committee to the bill seeks to further clarify the legislative provisions relating to manufactured tobacco, in line with the original intention of the legislator. In this context, it makes clear that only the product containing nicotine is considered to be a charger for excise purposes. CXXXV 2016 It shall incorporate the provisions on excise taxation of new categories of tobacco products into the new excise legislation in a manner consistent with the legislative provisions. On the other hand, the amendment proposed to postpone the entry into force of the substantive provisions of the new excise law from 1 April 2017 to 1 July 2017 by amending the provisions of entry into force and the transitional provisions. With this deferral, the proposal extends the time limits for making declarations available to the economic operators concerned and the time-frame for testing the electronic link established in accordance with the new excise provisions. However, it also requires mandatory testing for farmers who choose to use the so-called direct electronic data link. Dear Parliament, The bill and the amendment of the Committee on Economic Affairs contain the necessary provisions for the proper functioning of the new excise legislation to assist the economic operators concerned in the application of new rules, to which I call for support from my fellow Members. Of course, the bill and the amendments are supported by the government. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-221	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tallai. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor first to Congressman István Szávay, Jobbik.
u2017-03-20-222	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. I would like to comment on the excise provisions concerning electric cigarettes and refilling liquids, and I will leave the chocolate issue to someone else in this round. With regard to the regulation of electric cigarettes, I myself have spoken several times over the past year and a half, and I have drawn your attention to problems that have been encountered regularly, which has also been the issue of excise duty. What I would like to say first of all is that there is another positive government move on this issue, especially with a few weeks ago, I asked the Secretary of State of Tállai, more specifically the Minister, and Mr Tállai, State Secretary, replied on this. At the time, I objected and drew attention to the point that it would be pointless to impose the same excise duty on the filling fluid containing nicotine and not containing nicotine, and even to impose a pointless excise duty on the filling fluid that does not contain nicotine and is classified as a tobacco product. This is, of course, a much more favourable thing for consumers, and it is driving consumers in this direction. On many occasions, we have said that it is not a tobacco product, and that it is not a smoker, but I would like to lay this principle down now. Electric cigarettes are a very important tool for harm reduction, and we can take a very good step towards this harm reduction then - once again, I am very pleased that our many proposals on this issue have finally been adopted - if we are trying to shift consumers from cigarettes or cut tobacco to electric cigarettes and encourage them to do so, and obviously this is the result of the distinction between excise duty and the use of non-Nicotine filling fluids here as well. There's been some confusion about that. Last year, when this first came out in December, we were talking about a price of HUF 65 per ml; Jobbik suggested 50 forints here, and you finally accepted 55 forints. The proposal, which has now come in, is again 65 forints; I am glad that it has gone back to 55 forints on the basis of the summary, and we would like to welcome this. Obviously, as an opposition representative, I cannot and will not welcome a tax increase, because even if it is small items, but there is a certain increase in excise duty for cut tobacco, but it is undoubtedly true that this also affects the direction in which the price of cut tobacco can again be another incentive for smokers or users of tobacco products to move towards electric cigarettes. [[17.40]] So these modifications are good and appropriate in this form. The direction is good, but there is more to be done from this point of view, so allow me to draw your attention to this. For if we take into account all the positive steps that have been taken in the past year and a half in this regard, the one that we have just discussed, if we mention the precisely welcome step that has opened up the possibility - although we do not yet see exactly in this case - of last December that the previously closed electronic cigarettes and electrical cigarettes, which were specifically closed by law, are... I am sorry, I am already used to the use of the wrong word. So professional shops that sell specifically electric cigarettes and accessories can reopen, there is also a third problem here, because all these excellent steps are useless, my fellow Members, if the proposal to set a registration fee of HUF 475 thousand per product is still in place for virtually everything relating to electric cigarettes. This amount is completely unrealistic, especially if you consider that this applies to all parts of a device separately, for the various flavours of the refill liquid, nicotine liquids separately, depending on how much nicotine each liquid contains. This in itself is inefficient and will otherwise strengthen the black market and strengthen consumers' purchasing of products from abroad, from foreign webshops. But we've gone further than that, unfortunately, we've only just discovered it ourselves. An amendment was published in the Gazette of 19 December 2016, which will transform this administrative service fee of HUF 475 thousand into an annual fee per product. This is obviously completely incomprehensible to manufacturers, professional organisations and users, completely unrealistic. If they refuse to change that, this will in fact destroy the entire market. If you look at the fact that in Hungary there are 100 refills of different flavours, they have nicotine-free and nicotine-free versions, with three different kinds of nicotine per flavour, this is 400 different refills, after which you think you have to pay 475 thousand forints each year separately. If you look at this, this means HUF 1.9 billion for the above offer. I suppose I don't have to say that this provision is completely nonsense, inoperative, and whoever did this can neither count nor think. I would like to draw your attention to this and the Secretary of State's attention to doing something about it. However, I would like to welcome this move of the bill, and for our part, at least this part of it is something we support and we consider to be good. I would like to encourage you to take the path on which you started, compared to the fact that we had serious debates a year and a half ago, but the government has apparently finally set off on the path to consider harm reduction important; they have also taken the path to help quitting by reducing access to and the price of electric cigarettes. I am encouraging you to continue to do so, but you should definitely reconsider this provision, because no positive action will be worth anything if you do not change that. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-03-20-223	Thank you very much, Congressman Savay. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2017-03-20-224	Mr President, Dear House, It has to be said that the government has taken full advantage not only of the amendments to excise duty but also of the whole tax system, without any concept. The accounting profession has known more than 60 tax types or types of tax increases since your registration in 2010. We see that once the Cognac Cherry Lobby is bred into Parliament, and, of course, it is possible to achieve positive changes, but it does influence your action plan. At the moment, as my fellow Member has said, they are finally showing a positive shift, but they are, however, smuggling it in with a small increase in taxes on the other side. What we see is that the worst they did was a series of measures relating to fuels, as they virtually deprive the Hungarian customer of the possibility of some price reduction in the event of positive changes and trends on the world market, and quite simply you do not change certain elements of the tax system according to a normal, predefined system, but are constantly travelling to collect funds. At the moment, they could not put down a package that would not contain heavy loads on one side. So I would encourage you to develop or transform your exotic tax races along a comprehensive tax concept. I can refer here to the famous potato tax, which we discussed before the Economic Committee today, where the extension and use of the potato tax in the case of products brought here in a poor manner by the multinationals would be very forward-looking. We see, therefore, that although they have good moves, the concept is still lacking. Please change that. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Interjection from the same place: That's right!]]
u2017-03-20-225	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Dénes Galambos, who has indicated that he wishes to respond on behalf of the rapporteurs.
u2017-03-20-226	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address István Szávay's comment or the suggestion made by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, which is related to what was discussed by the Economic Committee and the Legislative Committee. Mr Sándor Burány, a Socialist Party Member, had a proposal for an amendment, which coincides with the idea of fuels that Dániel Z. Kárpát said. I'm about to respond to that. On behalf of our authors, we thank you for the fact that on the road to combating smoking, there has been a consensus on e-cigarettes and electric cigarettes, through which the Economic Committee has otherwise heard this opinion, and in this context, as my fellow Member has indicated, the value of 55 HUF/milliliters is included in the proposals. This is the part of the proposal itself, I think, that it is trying to follow the fight with the new categories of tobacco products. At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, my colleague György Szilágyi said that we might have gone ahead. It is never possible to go far enough, since new products are always introduced by large manufacturers. Of course, I am not going to say manufacturers here, but this fight is continuous, and it also gives you a good feeling that the corrections we have made to be about the nicotine-containing filling fluid are also thanks to the previous comments. The choice of the question is obviously given by practice that 400 refills are real, not real. I do not doubt the Member's suggestion, but obviously this may arise in connection with the subsequent amendments. I believe that we cannot deal with this in this bill today; and that reception skills must be clearly demonstrated if this is real. Thank you for the suggestion. On the one hand, I did not mention, on the other hand, the report of the Legislative Committee - this may be a mistake - that in this context it could not be dealt with legally - either in substance or legally - with the proposal that Sándor Burány wrote because it was an over-extension compared to the bill that we submitted. On the other hand, I think I am debating the statement made by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, because the advantage of an oil price-linked tax increase against a one-off increase is that a higher rate is only applicable when net prices are low, so this solution specifically protects consumers from drastic price increases. I would therefore like to ask you to support the adoption of the bill with your votes tomorrow and thank you for your participation in the debate. Thank you. [[17.50]]
u2017-03-20-227	Thank you very much, Congressman Pigeon. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. And now, Honourable Parliament, we now come to LXXVIII of 1997 on the formation and protection of the built environment. The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment to the Act concerning the extension of the simple notification to the non-commercial construction of residential immovable property of more than 300 square metres and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. Government referral T/13849. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Galambos, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-03-20-228	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, At the close of the Parliament's detailed debate, I hereby inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13849 on 16 March 2017. a proposal for a law on the formation and protection of the built environment, LXXVIII of 1997. It concerns the amendment of the Act concerning the extension of the simple notification to the non-commercial construction of residential immovable property of more than 300 square metres. As Mr Speaker indicated, who was able to follow through on this, he understood quite well what this was about; I trust him. Those involved in the general debate and the debate of the Legislative Committee can back that up. The summation proposal of the Legislative Committee, adopted by the Committee by 23 votes to one, with five abstentions, contains the grammatical amendments proposed by the Economic Commission, which were also supported by the Legislative Committee. It also includes the legislative committee's own amendment proposal, which is proposed in Article 1. §2 of the Act, which is intended to be amended by Étv. , i.e. Act 33/A on the formation and protection of the environment concerned. § 1 was proposed to divide the sentence of paragraph 1 into points for the sake of clarity. As a result, the new provisions of the proposal provide that a new residential building or the existing building can be built with simple announcements above 300 square metres if it is carried out to ensure the building owner's own housing. The amendment contains a rule to ensure this provision, according to which the purpose of the completed building cannot be changed within five years of the building being built. This regulation prevents the building that has been built from being used for purposes other than housing. Further provisions of the bill, I believe, are linked to what could be said to the fact that regulation in the framework of a reduction in public administration costs, as it seems to be a detailed rule, but it is important that, when the announcement is made to the end of construction, the fee for issuing the certificate should be set in a ministerial regulation, which allows for a more differentiated pricing and can be found more flexibly, in a more favourable way for citizens. That's an important part of it. Another important element of the bill is that, in order to relieve the burden of building supervision, the rules on good maintenance will continue to be followed up by the district offices and construction authorities of government offices after the closure of pending cases. For the reason that I supported this bill in the general debate, the decisive thing - as I indicated in my speech - is that in my constituency, too, those which, on the basis of the settlement structure, can be called a rural settlement category - I say this in a totally positive and proud sense - are errors that occurred in the previous decades, sometime in the 1970s and 1980s, when large-scale plots of land were chosen to build a way with which areas were still left, and fortunately, not the solutions that had gained more space to be built into a sinky plot, but there is still room to be installed. There are settlements - at least four or five such settlements in my constituency: Nagyvenyim, Perkáta, Rácalmás - for which this amendment is of practical importance. We do not support this bill for any other reason, but also to support the housing solution and construction solution of several generations, and this is in line with what the Prime Minister indicated that 2017 is the year of home creation. If we can give citizens opportunities in this regard, then we must take this opportunity. In view of all this, I ask that you support the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-03-20-229	Thank you, Congressman Pigeon. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[Nándor Csepreghy: Not now.]] It says it's not right now. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. I give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek, who presents the minority opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development for the debate in a three-minute time frame.
u2017-03-20-230	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, There are some professional issues that we can simply chat about, but this villaamnesty over 300 square meters, so that everyone in the Buda mountains can build a fork without permission, obviously does not belong to this category, because it is just another fidesz scam, because it is the new millionaire, billionaire, with hundreds of millions of millions of dollars that you create that can even build new family houses over 300 square meters that you want to put in position. It is not possible to build so far, but so far some aspects have had to be taken into account in the building authorisation procedure, which we believe should continue in a building this size, since they may clearly have effects on both the microenvironment and the street image and on other aspects that have a negative impact on both the built environment and the natural environment. Basically, we believe that the traditional authorisation procedure did not prevent even large families from moving together, there was no obstacle at all, but the possibilities of 300 square meters of floor space open up the possibility of abuse. Five years is very, very few to apply a different purpose to such a structure, and accordingly I have also presented to the Committee on Sustainable Development the facts that could be found in the 2016 LXXIV. The protection of the settlement image, whether in relation to previously adopted nature conservation legislation or EU provisions, could clearly lead to the ignoring of previous legislation and stronger legislation, thus raising the issue of legal legislation. Basically, the question of residential properties over 300 square meters is the question of Hungarian millionaires, a selected small minority. This could be done without further ado, even if we could see for sure in the permit granting procedure where the waste goes, in what procedure, in what process, in what form the construction remnants, in what landscape or in what effect the neighbors might have. This is obviously an anti-citizen law, as it eliminates the possibility for neighbours to have a meaningful impact on the licensing procedure as a participant. There was a need for consensus in the previous administrative procedure. By merging government offices, the need for this has been reduced, and the need to take more account of both the built environment and the natural environment as far as possible is virtually eliminated. Accordingly, I asked the Committee on Sustainable Development not to support it, taking into account sectoral efforts, but unfortunately I remained in a minority with my opinion and was supported by the pro-government majority of the committee. I can, of course, repeat my position in the case of my faction, but it will be the same in substance. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2017-03-20-231	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik. [[18.00]]
u2017-03-20-232	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It's very rare for me to have the government take what I ask. Now that's what happened, it's true, only in a very partial way. But I'd like to start with the good, the positive. Thank God they understood that the ban on change of destination might close a loophole, at least for a while. For our part, we have proposed that this be a ten-year ban at least. In addition, we asked for a disposal ban to be recorded on the ownership sheet at the time when the official certificate certifying the completion of the structure was issued. According to your justification, everyone is building this property for their own housing. Then I don't really understand why it couldn't have been accepted. Not to mention the narrowness of why this change of function was set in just five years. I mean, if everyone was building on their own housing, they'd probably be thinking about it over the longer term, so they could have taken the ten years. The other one we asked for, and unfortunately it was also not realized, is the clarification of the category over 300 square meters. Because when you argued for your proposal in the debate, you always thought of a few square meters above 300 square meters. But I told you, let's say over 300 square meters a song together, that's 10 grand. Is the 300 above it? Oh, yeah. So you could build a building of that magnitude? Meg, no one's against it. What will be the result? As my fellow Member Sallai has said, it will not improve our built cultural environment, but it will not make the village picture more beautiful, but it will certainly end the Community control once and for all. Customer rights have already been buried below 300 square meters, and will now be abolished over 300 square meters. Overall, I have to say, as I said in the context of the general debate, that this is not really in favour of Hungarian families. Because what is the Hungarian family that could build square meters by thousands? Obviously, it's a business interest that comes up here. By putting in a five-year ban on change of destination, which, I must say once again, I took very kindly to at least understand this one message, it has not yet been excluded that it should be used as a housing property, but let us say, rent-out, to benefit from the particular builder of this property. 'Cause it doesn't say in this bill that they have to sign in there and actually live there. The justification arises, it's fantastic, it's really a very big word, but I'm just not sure it's realistic that it's actually going to happen that way. So, overall, I have to say, we're still not gonna be able to support this. But, Mr Secretary of State, I would ask you very nicely, I do not think there is any urge for you to amend this law on the built environment in this sense now, unless there is some specific business, investor's intention to vote on this right now. I assume that there is no such thing as that, because you did not talk about the housing of Hungarian families, the importance of home creation. So this could be a future, as you might say, a long-term goal. You would still have time to negotiate with the profession and see the social impact of the proposal that you have put forward. Let me tell you one more thing about this: there is no reduction in the costs, there is no reduction in bureaucracy. I beg you to ask a builder if it's making the money he's paying the architect less. No, it just made it grow, because there's a mandatory design management. If a building permit has been added to 200 to 300 thousand forints so far, now, because you have made countless additional conditions mandatory, this amount, which the builder pays for the preliminary plans in total, can go over a million in the case of a family house. So we can't talk about cuts in bills or cuts in red tape here. We can talk about one thing, once again, that we have ruled out all the community interest representatives once and for all. Because in parallel, in the case of a slightly larger building, you will immediately classify everything as a prominent government project, like Garancsi's 120-meter residential area on the Kopaszi dam. Jesus Christ, I can't even think about it. What if it's also designed as an apartment? I also told you that in the case of a looser layout, because no one controls it, no one controls it, and no one can actually say anything, because there is no authority involved, you can practically build what you want. So I think it is time, this bill is now - tomorrow is before us - not to be put to the vote, it can still be undone. There is still time for the government to consider this, and to save Hungary from this madness, this crazy idea. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-20-233	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, notary. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I ask the rapporteur whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2017-03-20-234	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Thank you very much for the critical and supportive contributions, not only today, but throughout the debate. Allow me to say that when the Prime Minister's Office as a whole began to rethink the rules of construction, it basically did so from the point of view that it considered citizens to be adults; people who are able to interpret legislation and live their everyday lives according to it are able to allow a procedure to build a property accordingly. The fears that Mrs Hegedűs raised, I think, have been partially answered, as you know, Madam Congresswoman, in this bill it is only building and building for its own purpose that is exempted from the authorisation procedure. Of course, this rule cannot be interpreted separately from the other rules of construction, where our aim was precisely to eliminate the possibility of subjective evaluation, to eliminate the possibility that an apartment or any other property is not built according to the plan, as it was previously registered, and then depends on the subjective decision of the various public authorities whether it can be maintained or not. Now there is a mandatory design management, which is a financial guarantee to the builder that what he sees in the plans today, and what the architect, what the engineer guarantees, complies with national and local rules. I think that this is a very important change, and the introduction of a 300-square-metre property size and the abolition of the permit for over-the-top residential properties is all about building a home in Hungary without having to bother with the authorisation procedure. We believe that this regulation is indeed in the right direction, since the statistical indicators of this regulation have already been confirmed. While in 2015 a total of 12 thousand apartments and residential properties were started in Hungary, 26 thousand in 2016; 12 thousand out of 26 thousand were already under simplified notification obligation. And all the amendments that lie before you here reflect not only the position of the government, but also the position of the Chamber of architects and engineers. As Congresswoman has seen, and as the Prime Minister's Office has promised you, where there is a worthy proposal, we will take the Jobbik's position. We think that the five-year ban on changing functions is an appropriate guarantee that real housing property is built here, and we think that this regulation today brings us closer to creating a more transparent, subjective and truly valuable architectural heritage in this generation as well. Thank you, Mr President, for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-20-235	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the prohibition of commercial exploitation of authoritarian symbols and the amendment of certain related laws will follow. Presentation submitted by MEPs János Lázár, Imre Vas, László Vigh, István Vitányi, Kristóf Szatmáry Fidesz and Zsolt Semjén and representatives of Imre Vejkey KDNP T/14441. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár, the rapporteur on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. [[18.10]]
u2017-03-20-236	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As a Member of Parliament, I would like to ask the honourable House to consider our proposal with my fellow Member Zsolt Semjén as follows. As is known, my fellow Members of Parliament in the Fidesz and KDNP fractions of Parliament have had two important aims in the House of the country and with the provision of the majority behind the executive power since 2010 and. One is the economic strengthening of Hungary and the second is the strengthening of its independence. In this context, I consider it particularly important that the issue of national self-determination should be on Parliament's agenda not only in terms of principles but also in terms of concrete ones. As you know, my fellow Member Zsolt Semjén has, in recent days, justified the submission of a bill before you by the fact that Parliament has a political and moral duty. I am saying that Parliament also has a political and moral obligation, and on the other hand, the protection of national interests is an extremely important political objective for all my fellow Members of Parliament who are fidesz and all KDNPs, and I hope that others too, which is why I am confident that they will support the proposal and the proposal. How is the proposal and the proposal, and what is it about? As we know, since 2000 the Hungarian Parliament has tried to restrict or prohibit the use of the symbols of authoritarianism. There are two reasons for this, according to the proposal. Obviously, we have a moral obligation to prohibit the use of authoritarian symbols on a daily basis, as the use of authoritarian symbols in commercial terms contributes to the acquisition of a social legitimacy, which is clear that, with the distance of time, 70 years or 30-40 years, it is already a question of less personal experience for generations and much more historical knowledge or impression, therefore, the instruments used in trade, the various adverts, are able to relish the importance of a repressive regime, an authoritarian regime. I say this because our proposal primarily protects the interests of those who, when using an authoritarian symbol, be it a national socialist symbol or a communist symbol, are offended, whether they are Holocaust survivors or victims of communism. They feel offended when communist symbols or national socialist Nazi symbols are placed in trade, in any commercial way, at the level of everyday life, where appropriate, on the cover, appearance or cover of an item of use, a means of consumption, obviously in order to raise awareness, draw attention to themselves and gain benefits in trade. In order to protect human dignity and protect the human dignity of the victims, I would very much like to avoid the fact that a T-shirt or an object with an Arrow Cross and a Nazi symbol is part of a good party in Hungary now or in the next period. I think that the generations ahead of us, the victims and those whose human dignity is violated, we owe at least that, and we must say this not only at the level of words and at the level of laws, but also in everyday life. The second reason, which I do not want to sweep under the rug, concerns the protection of national interests. A few days ago, the Romanian court ruling, which made the marketing and production of the Real Ciuc Beer virtually impossible, came to light. Although the judgment has not yet been described, it is final. In fact, in Transylvania, Szeklerland, a trade mark-use and a business-use dispute arose, in which the Heineken Group, which, in previous years, gained significant market advantage in Central Europe and thus in Transylvania, attacked a small Hungarian enterprise, making it impossible to use names, operate, making it impossible to appear on the market. I believe that Heineken has far abused its dominant position in the market, as it does in Hungary, because it has used brutal instruments against a company that is not a genuine market competitor to him. I think that every sworn Member of Parliament, the Hungarian Parliament, must stand by the principle that if, somewhere in the world, within or outside the borders of Hungary, national interests are harmed, then we must defend the national interests, if national interests are harmed, they must not remain without consequences. Therefore, my request to the Honourable Parliament - on behalf of my fellow Members - is to consider that if a Hungarian national interest is attacked on a trademark line, then the answer to this should be a trade mark case. So let us respond to the trade mark case with a trade mark because, once again, I would like to emphasise, the national Members of Parliament have an open position that Hungarian national interests cannot be harmed either in Hungary or in Central Europe or elsewhere without consequences. Therefore, when this case broke out and we tried to study the legal environment with my colleagues, fellow Members, and with the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP what could be done on the basis of the European Union rules, the previous decision of the Constitutional Court in Hungary or the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, which I am about to citing in connection with legal interpretation and justification, we had the law in our hands that relates to the use of the symbols of authoritarianism. The 2000 regime, which prohibited the use of authoritarian symbols in Hungary, was subject to a constitutional review in 2003, and the Constitutional Court, as is known, considered the right of freedom of political expression to be stronger than the protection of human dignity. In the practice of the Constitutional Court and the Hungarian case law of the last thirty years, I may say without risk - [[His microphone falls off his jacket.]] - if the microphone allows this - that the right to political expression is an absolute right, which is protected by everything and everyone, so this practically meant that the Constitutional Court gave it greater protection than human dignity. I note in parentheses that the Constitutional Court not only defended the right to political expression in its decision in 2003, but the Constitutional Court found the relevant provisions of the Criminal Code to be disproportionate and uncontroversial, and did not find it sufficiently precise and precise regulation. In 2000, the legislator intended to punish the use of authoritarian symbols by using the Criminal Code. However, the case has a continuation. As you know, a Hungarian citizen has turned to the European Court of Human Rights and has asked for the possibility of using authoritarian symbols and symbols as a means of political expression. The court has given him the opportunity to do so. So today in Hungary, the use of authoritarian symbols is limited, but not absolutely forbidden, and it is clear that the right to political expression is stronger than the protection of human dignity, the protection of the groups and persons I spoke about at the beginning of my speech. Together with my fellow Members, we have examined whether there is a difference between freedom of expression and freedom of expression in trade, whether the right to trade, the right to commercial advertising, the right to trade are as strong as the right to political expression. I do not wish to be a lawyer by chance, but I must say to my fellow Members that today, European case law, which will be summoned in this House as a criticism of our bill, is a distinction between political freedom of expression and the right to use commercial advertising, regardless of party standing. They're not equal and they're not the same. The Hungarian Constitutional Court also made an interesting decision in 1997 in which it made it clear and stated that in Hungary, regardless of political expression, commercial advertising is also entitled to freedom of expression, so commercial advertising can also be an opinion, but it cannot be absolute, and it should not prejudice the human dignity of others, in Hungarian: there is a possibility of restriction. Moreover, it is worth reading the decision of the European Court of Justice; not the European Court of Human Rights, but the decision of the European Court of Justice, which did not refer to it in the 2011 Hungarian National Assembly, which prohibited the use of the symbol system of the Soviet Union on a perfume in a court decision not cited by the Hungarian legislator. An English company wanted to put on the market a fragrance in the territory of the European Union, and with the Soviet coat of arms - with hammers, sickles, stars and everything about the decorations - it wanted to put it on the market, and the European Court of Justice has prohibited this use of a trademark by claiming that, for example, Hungary - mentioned literally in the judgment - and Latvia, the sensitivity, human dignity and human dignity of the people living there may be affected. That is why we have come to the decision to thoroughly study the cases of Hungarian and international law to propose to the Honourable Parliament that it ban the commercial exploitation of authoritarian symbols. [[18.20]] In Hungarian: it is forbidden to use swastikas, SS badges, arrow Crosses, sickle hammers, five-point red stars or symbols representing them, hereinafter referred to as the "autocratic symbol," for profit purposes, to display or sell goods or services with a symbol of autocracy. Of course, our proposal is fair and proportionate, since it does not apply to education, dissemination of knowledge and fine arts, and, of course, in the case of private interest which is worthy of appreciation, the government has the opportunity to exempt from this rule, such as commercial television broadcasts, as stated in the explanatory memorandum. Honourable Parliament! On the basis of political and moral considerations and on the grounds of national interest protection, I therefore ask Parliament to consider the possibility of separate regulation of the right to political expression and the right to free trade, while taking into account the two relevant decisions of the Hungarian Constitutional Court, taking into account the decision of the European Court of Human Rights and the European judicial practice. I propose that we respect the right to political expression and not limit it in any form. On the other hand, freedom of trade is restricted, in Hungarian: in trade we do not allow the use of authoritarian symbols, because this is obviously a violation of the human dignity of others. This is, of course, a legislative attempt that will obviously end up in different forums. First of all, the European Commission has a notification obligation for the legislator, which has begun. This is a three-month process, so there is plenty of time for discussion, reflection and reflection, but I think - and the lawyers I asked - that there is a possibility to distinguish between the two rights: the right to freedom of political expression and the right to freedom of trade. While freedom of political expression is absolute and unlimited in a modern democracy - and in Hungary, in particular, on the basis of the case law of the Constitutional Court - commercial freedom of expression can do harm people's dignity and harm their convictions, hurt their feelings and feelings. And that's what we're trying to limit. Of course, it is difficult to estimate the social impact of this, because many symbols can be used here, and symbolism can be used. It is always mentioned as Heineken, it is obvious in the introduction of the explanatory statement, I have not contradicted this reference, since it is a trade mark issue that must be answered, but I note that we are doing nothing but trying to introduce the method used by Heineken in Hungary. In 1951, the Heineken group self-limitingly removed the red star from the Heineken beer cans, saying that it did not use the symbol of the Soviet Union, while respecting the right to human dignity. How is it that for 40 years the victims and victims of communism have the right to defend human dignity according to Heineken, and now, 30 years after the change of regime, there is no right in Hungary? Until the early 90s, Heineken released this product with a white star. I know very well that there will also be a European debate, and there will also be a debate in Brussels, and I ask my fellow Members to consider supporting us in what, by the way, is increasingly a practice in Europe to try to ban authoritarian symbols in trade and to distinguish between the right to freedom of expression mentioned above and the right to commercial distribution. By the way, the symbols of Nazi regimes in Europe are subject to a long and consistent ban; in recent decades, in Western European countries, the symbols of communism have not been banned as authoritarian symbols, nor have they applied a ban of similar proportions and similarities to Nazi symbols, but in Latvia, the Czech Republic and many countries of Central Europe there is already such a ban, which also applies to commercial distribution. The Commission did not object to these prohibitions when they were introduced. I would also like to say that it is obvious that the economic consequences of this must be considered in the sense that the Heineken Group is, after all, a strategic partner of the government, and we obviously do not want to attack it as an employer and not as a taxpayer, but we just want everyone in Europe, as a member of the European Union, to respect the Hungarian national interest both in Hungary and elsewhere. This case, by the way, I note in parentheses, had a civilized settlement. There are a lot of world-wide and European economic powers and companies that apply trademark agreements. These forms are known in European continental and Anglo-Saxon law, when they agree on the common use of a trade mark, a symbol, and a common restriction on use and restriction of use for each other's benefit. It would have been a simple bilateral agreement. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this multinational enterprise was not looking for the agreement, but, in essence, by means of legal and other means, it did everything it could to make a Hungarian national interest impossible. The details of the regulation are available to all my fellow Members in the general and detailed explanations. All my fellow Members can get to know it in detail. In particular, I do not want to discuss this right now. We have acted carefully, we have also taken into account the requirements of proportionality, and I believe that there are two arguments, which are insurmountable, one is political and moral duty, and on the other hand the legal environment has changed, and we are asking Parliament to consider this. Now, after the debate, I believe that there will be a period, it is expected that the European Commission will take three months to make a notification until the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament can consider this proposal. Not everyone in our group supports it, and I know that every faction has doubts about it. I am trying to convince all my fellow Members. In my opinion, the fact that someone puts up with a red star at a political event, as much as it hurts, must be tolerated by all of us. But the fact that he uses this red star, regardless of the interests of others and the sensitivity of others, for commercial gain, for the purpose of flirting, for the purpose of making money, in a country that suffered a great deal during the Nazi dictatorship, and suffered a great deal under communism, cannot be allowed. I do not think that in the Netherlands a swastika Heineken box would be available for distribution and distribution. I ask all my fellow Members to consider all this. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-237	Thank you very much, Minister Lazarus. I'll ask if anyone wants to speak on behalf of the government. Yes, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-03-20-238	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, With the government consistently and decisively refusing to use all forms of authoritarian symbols and considering the protection of Hungarian interests as a fundamental task, we intend to make the government's statement at a later stage of discussion in the light of the present proposal, in the light of the government's working order with regard to the bill under consideration. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-239	Thank you very much, Secretary Major. Dear Parliament, We now have the keynote speeches in 15 minutes' time. First, I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-03-20-240	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Our national creed states that we deny against the Hungarian nation and its citizens the statute of limitations on the inhumane crimes committed under the rule of the national socialist and communist dictatorship. Hungary - rightly - the Hungarian Fundamental Law does not distinguish between red and white terrorism. We are convinced that the crimes of the Communist dictatorship fall under the same weight as the national socialist horrors. It is therefore our fundamental obligation to cherish, preserve and defend the rights of the victims of dictatorships. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members that the first Orbán government decided in 2000 that 16 April should be a memorial day for the victims of the Holocaust in Hungary. The first such memorial was held in 2001. Also in 2000, the Parliament decided to dedicate 13 June each year to the victims of communism. And the government... - just in February, the gulag commemorative year ended, which brought to our attention the sufferings of political prisoners and forced workers who were brought to the Soviet Union. However, at certain forums in Western Europe today, as though there were differences between death camps and death camps, it is enough to think about the judgment of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which stated that the red star has a wide range of meanings. However, on the east side of the Iron Curtain, the crimes and inhumanities committed under the symbol of the Red Star can only be interpreted in one way: unacceptable, intolerable. It is no coincidence that Lithuania, Latvia and the Czech Republic have similar criminal law rules on the use of forbidden symbols of authoritarianism as we do. [[18.30]] Of course, Hungary, as a member of the Council of Europe, accepts and respects the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, and its case-law must be taken into account here in the legislative process, which is the T/14441. We have also examined the bill on the prohibition of commercial exploitation of authoritarian symbols and the amendment of certain related laws. I would add that the Constitutional Court's decision after the Vajnai case, which referred to a lot, also acknowledged that the criminal threat to the use of authoritarian symbols, human dignity and the protection of constitutional values deriving from the Fundamental Law may be justified. The Board is the Btk then in force. However, it considered its facts to be too broad, not sufficiently clear and delimiting the scope of criminal behaviour. However, I would also like to state that this bill is not a classic case of restriction of expression. The clear aim of the proposal is to establish a general system of rules prohibiting the commercial use of authoritarian symbols in Hungary. As the general explanatory statement states, the use of authoritarian symbols for commercial purposes is not a right which, contrary to freedom of expression, could compete with the public interest in the prohibition of authoritarian symbols. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] We are convinced that because of historical experiences and in order to protect the victims, we are not obliged to allow our daily lives to be part of a symbol that was the symbol of any dictatorship, whether it be swastikas, sickles, hammers or red stars. A flashing beam is the refusal to register a mark containing a sickle, hammer and a red star. Based on the legal regulations and administrative practices of Hungary, Latvia and the Czech Republic, the Board of Appeal considered that the symbols related to the former Soviet Union mean something different in relation to the countries of the European Union which were once under the rule of the Soviet regime, and that there might conflict with public order or public morality. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members here to the fact that 11 of the 28 Member States of the European Union have come from the former Soviet regime, which already accounts for slightly more than 20% of the population. I am sure that, after these double standards, unconditionally believers call for EU law on the bill on the grounds of the free movement of goods. Even if we were to accept their slutty argument, which concerns the prohibition of quantitative restrictions and measures having equivalent effect, I would like to draw your attention to Article 36 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which refers to public morality and public order among the state's written means of rescue, which perfectly coincides with the grounds for the judgment of the European Court of Justice rejecting the registration of the trade mark. However, Hungary cannot go to individual trade marks disputes, so the objective of the authors is clear that no one can place goods in Hungary that use a system of authoritarian symbolism on the market. This is a minimum expectation that can be met by the products of different manufacturers, if they have intent and respect for the memory of Hungarian people. I ask your support for this, please support the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-241	Thank you very much. Good evening, everyone. We will continue our work, and we will hear the opinion of the head speaker of the MSZP. Congressman Sándor Burány, please.
u2017-03-20-242	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, What we have heard so far has been a rather controversial argument, and I am going to address that, but ultimately the truth has been contained in the comments. This bill in this form is nothing more than a form of revenge, the enforcement of the eye for an eye principle. It's a pretty rough tool, and in terms of history, I'm afraid I have to say that it's not even unprecedented. Fidesz has always been prepared to put in a position of law or individual difficulty, or, on the contrary, it is particularly beneficial to put companies or entrepreneurs, individuals, in a market position that pleases Fidesz. I'll tell you some of these laws from earlier periods: if Fidesz wants Andy Vajna to open a casino without a rival and continue gambling activities in Hungary that no other competitor can effectively carry on, then it will create a law that will allow that one person to make a huge profit. If it is in Fidesz's interest to put pressure on a business negotiation, then it does not argue with the tax authority, so to speak - this is a strong argument - to place the tax authority's tool, using the tax authority as a club, under pressure, until it gives in, sells its share of the government or some kind of background institution of the government. Unfortunately, newspaper articles and news have also been produced about such practices, and unfortunately, tragic deaths have also occurred in Hungary. If Fidesz does not like one of the commercial televisions, it is ready to amend the advertising law immediately in order to beat the media it does not like into billions of dollars. The current bill is part of the range of these proposals. Although the bill may not only hit Heineken, because mothers buying MilkyWay may also be worried, and domestic customers who consume San Pellegrino mineral water may also have a red, five-pointed star on the cover and packaging of both products. Of course, the regulation will apply to them. The real Ciuc Beer, the Romanian subsidiary of Heineken and the Hungarian political majority are the characters of this story, this particular triangle, and I must say that none of the actors are innocent, of course the weight of errors is different. I do not entirely consider the distributor or owner of the Real Ciuc Beer to be innocent, nor should there be any misunderstanding, because I do not think it is appropriate to practice that if someone has a product that is not good enough, he is trying to make some kind of national marketing - to quote the words of János Lázár from the previous Expo - and thus gain market benefits. Let's get this straight: Ciuc Beer, which should be a beer corresponding to the category of a craft beer, is a much weaker category. The Real Ciuc Beer as a drink, in a price range of 200 forints, would be a pretty normal product in any market, would be in line, say, with Dreher or Soproni or Borsodi, but it is offered for money for which they actually buy craft beer on the domestic market, and the quality of this beer does not reach the quality of these craft beers. This producer, which produces the Real Ciuc Beer, is guilty of trying to bridge the gap between the actual quality of beer and its excessive price with a national marketing. It's a business mistake, not from the devil. I do not like it very much, because I like it when a product tries to convince me primarily with its quality and not use any other means to encourage me to buy, but we have seen it on the market from other manufacturers. Neither is Heineken's Romanian subsidiary in this case. His justification for attacking the Real Ciuc Beer as a brand name was quite ridiculous. I don't speak Romanian, so I apologize if I misjudge Ciuc Premium, but anyone who visually confuses the name Ciuc Premium with the Real Ciuc Beer as a visual appearance doesn't help. It is quite clear that the Romanian subsidiary of Heineken attacked the producer of the Real Ciuc Beer in the Romanian court for a false reason, namely, the product, the name use, and, in doing so, it is impossible, or at least unpleasant, to create a small rival on the market. [[18.40]] But this bill is the biggest sin, because the answer is that domestic political power takes revenge on the Hungarian subsidiary of Heineken - we are talking about a domestic factory, we are talking about a factory with domestic workers - because of the market behaviour of Heineken's Romanian subsidiary. It's unacceptable! Lawmaking can't be used as a club. Minister Lazarus' argument is limping on several points. First of all, the trade mark mark debate is not the same in Hungary as what happened in Romania. I may have just made it clear that I consider the final decision of the Romanian court to be frivolous, although unfortunately the final decision is still an enforceable decision, but it was taken by the court. It was not the Romanian National Assembly that passed a law that put the manufacturer of the True Ciuc Beer in an impossible position, but the Romanian court. If we follow the principle of separating the branches of power a little bit, then political legislation and the application of law, the application of judicial law, should be independent branches of power. Consequently, legislation cannot create laws on the basis of an eye for an eye in response to a court decision. In the Fidesz main speech, and in the reasoning of Minister Lazarus, there were elements of concern about trade and concern about the insulting nature of the authoritarian symbol. I must say that if we look at Heineken, there are probably very few people in the country who are afraid of this product. If we are talking about forbidden symbols of authoritarianism, its justification, its application, then it is quite clear that we are categorizing the symbols otherwise specifically listed in this category that are suitable for disturbing public rest, to instill fear or disgust in others. It's an open secret that Heineken is, by the way, one of the big sponsors of football. That might be nice for the Fidesz, but it doesn't seem like it. Speaking of soccer, so let's just say that in the bleachers of football courts, fans sometimes don't behave in a way that makes them feel comfortable around them. I've seen cheerleading groups more than once that made people afraid, which were capable of disturbing public peace, but a Fradi cheerleader, frankly, I've never seen him scared of a Heineken beer. You can't really see that. [[István Szávay: Nobody's scared! It's not that. Dr. István Apáti: We are different types.]] So the argument that this creates conflict and fear in Hungary is not very good for it. [[István Szávay: You!]] Let me refer to Minister Péter Szijjártó in this area, who had no problem with this symbol, because in 2014, when the Hungarian State and Heineken concluded a strategic agreement, in hand with Heineken beer, Minister said that, toasting the Dutch owner or management, the beer producer is one of the most important representatives of Hungarian-Dutch economic cooperation, so Heineken also contributes to Hungary's performance today. Now, if this symbol is offensive, then it was offensive at the time of the change of regime, it was offensive when, by the way, the Hungarian Parliament created the law on the symbols of authoritarianism, and it was offensive in 2014, when, with this authoritarian symbol, the minister of the government threw a toast to a strategic partner. In other words, it's quite clear that this is just an excuse. This is just an excuse to punish a specific subsidiary, the Hungarian subsidiary of Heineken. To sum up: our position is that the application of law, by means of legislation, is to intervene harshly in market processes, to put any company in a favourable position or in a negative position out of revenge with individual decisions, that is to mock the rule of law. Heineken's conduct is both questionable and controversial, and the answer to that is not to use legislation and legislation as a tool for politics. The trademark mark, the eye for an eye principle, is not a good attitude. To quote Gandhi, the eye for an eye will make the whole world blind. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear House, At least we shouldn't be blind here and assist in a vendetta against a company, and the Hungarian government or the Fidesz-KDNP faction giving most of it a fight with a company. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-03-20-243	Dear Parliament, Congressman Imre Vejkey, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here you go.
u2017-03-20-244	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Christian Democrats find the representation of authoritarian symbols not only for political purposes but also for commercial purposes unacceptable and intolerable. CHAPTER XX Inhumane crimes against humanity committed under the rule of a national socialist and communist dictatorship, founded on the ideas of the century, and also offensive to human dignity, have caused deep and painful wounds to our compatriots, so the symbols of the two total dictatorships in our country are still irritating not only to the victims and their relatives, but also to all good people. CHAPTER XX The most horrific periods of the century cannot be forgotten, so in 2000 in our country, during the first Orbán government, a parliamentary decision decided on the Memorial Day of the victims of both the communist and the Nazi dictatorship. The question arises as to why the Memorial Day in free Western Europe has only been set up after us for over half a century, and only partially, since the Memorial Day of the Victims of National Socialism has been introduced, but the victims of international socialism, namely communism, are still not remembered until today, secreting and betraying the blood sacrifice of millions of innocents. They did this despite the fact that both total dictatorships have ruined human dignity. One pursued me on a racial basis, and the other expelled people from the community on a class-based basis, based on the principle of collective responsibility. Ideologically, both dictatorships had a common goal of destroying the old system in Europe, so it is no wonder that the Second World War was launched together with the joint invasion of Poland by the two total dictatorships, behind which the so-called Molotov-Ribbentrop pact, signed on 23 August 1939, was signed between the German Imperial Government and the Government of the Soviet Socialist Republics Association, which agreed, among other things, to divide Poland and the Baltic States. [[18.50]] Ladies and Gentlemen, All these facts show that Western Europe would have to deal with the whole system of illusion and silence in order not to be charged with open or grassless support for communism. For the Christian Democrats, it seems that the global power behind the West does not want to defeat them with the open or implied support of international socialism, and even the Hungarian aspirations in this direction irritate them. Neither Brussels nor the Strasbourg Human Rights Court itself does not want to send part of the authoritarian symbols to their historic dump. Where, then, is Brussels and Strasbourg's famous commitment to human rights? Where is solidarity with the suffering? Where is compassion with the victims and their relatives? Ladies and Gentlemen, There's no such compassion anywhere. Nowhere, because Brussels and Strasbourg are unilaterally insensitive to the victims of the communist dictatorship, in violation of the human dignity of the Hungarians, and with their judgments they explicitly encourage the emergence of symbols linked to the communist dictatorship, despite the fact that the use of these symbols in our country is capable of disrupting public peace. It is intolerable and unacceptable that neither Brussels nor Strasbourg takes into account the fact that in this part of Europe the Hungarians suffered both the Nazi and the Bolshevik reign of terror, and therefore we have the right not to use such symbols in Hungary for political purposes or for economic gain. Take into account that millions of people in Hungary have been crippled in the spirit of this symbol, so we will not tolerate the use of it, no matter how much it supports this global power and the political elite behind it. Ladies and Gentlemen, The parliamentary faction of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the prohibition of the commercial use of authoritarian symbols and the amendment of the related laws T/14441. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-20-245	Thank you very much. Congressman György Szilágyi, lead speaker of Jobbik is the next speaker. Congressman from here, he's giving his speech on the pulpit. Here you go.
u2017-03-20-246	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to state at the outset that I do not agree with János Lázár when he says that we, as a political expression, must tolerate putting a red star on the jacket in Hungary. The question arises: does the government also believe that a person should be allowed to put a swastika on a jacket under the title of political expression? I don't think so. Why isn't there a freedom fight here? Why do we not fight with the different institutions of the EU here so that no one in Hungary can safely pin the red star on you? CHAPTER XX During our centuries' history, the nation suffered a great deal from dictatorships, the harmful effects of which on all those who lived in those years are obvious and clear. In many cases, even those who were not yet alive have been affected to this day. One of the features of these inhuman and anti-Hungarian systems was their unique symbol system, which was created by the system operators to clearly identify themselves and their system. The stigmatisation and prohibition of the symbols of these dictatorial systems means the stigma of the systems, reflecting the value-based rejection of these sinful systems. The aim of the ban is therefore to make clear to everyone the rejection of repressive systems symbolized by banned symbols of authoritarianism. Simply put, by banning it, we make a clear distinction between right and wrong. This is a fundamental task of the legal system, which is undisputed, but if we look carefully at the bill before us and the justification for it, then there seems to be something quite strange and dark intention to hide behind the eligible targets again. And this intention is nothing more than the intention of arbitraryness. The reason behind the bill before us is that it is necessary to amend it because there is nothing to regulate the use of authoritarian symbols for commercial purposes today. It is interesting to note that currently the non-commercial swastika chocolate and Arrow Cross diapers, but not even SS seat covers. It is also available in red star candy, sports shoes, children's toys and beer. The phenomenon stems from the fact that the red star is a symbol less rejected than any other symbol among the symbols of dictatorships that cripple Hungarianism. The reason for this is, in our view, that communist dictatorships and their symbol systems are less stigmatized, and society does not identify the symbol with the horrors of the system. The reason for this has been a whole new generation since the death of Kádár, who have barely heard of the system marked by this man's name, a symbol of which was the red star. They have not heard of the abused families, the hundreds of thousands who have been murdered, imprisoned, forced to work, have not heard enough of the horrors of communism, and this is our fault, who, unfortunately, have allowed the cowards claiming liberalism and political corruption to be the prime minister, and that Antal Apró's family still has great influence on economic and political life today. This growing new generation has not heard, and this is good for you, because now you don't know how much Hungary today is, but how much it resembles the one-party system in Kádár. So now they don't feel that we're surrounded by the same strangling atmosphere as they did then, but they've just been poured with a different glaze. It's not called socialism, it's called a system of national cooperation, but it's the same thing. It's the same insolence of authority that makes the party's people feel superior to everything and everyone. As we know, Kádár's body has been spread, his skull has not been found to this day. But his spirit is still haunting us, yes, my fellow Members, even within the walls of this House. The bill before us intends to operate on methods just like those dictatorial systems that seek to combat stealthy social acceptance, thus stating the justification for the proposal, the amendment intends to act. Only one element of dictatorships is the symbol system, another is an equally important element of the methodology, as power is exercised. And this particular methodology is self-indulgent, breaking the rules and ignoring the Community interest. The fight against authoritarian regimes must not only be fought at the level of symbols and voices. Arbitrary and dictatorship must be combated by the means of honour, honor, and our common past should be faced at last, and both sins and sinners should at least be named. Pure hypocrisy is the current bill, since its real purpose has been clearly made clear in the manifestations of government members, their aim is to expel Heineken from the market, one of which is to ban the red star label. For some reason, the government was angry with a market player and, in spite of his anger, touched on the rigour of the law. This is the dictatorship itself, my fellow Members, this is János Kádár himself. Unfortunately, the new Kádárs, who are currently governing, have learned nothing from history. They did not learn that arbitrary and strict bans are counterproductive, long-term unsustainable, their results are apparent, they did not learn that Hungarians can only be stunned for a period of time by hundreds of tricks, the truth will be revealed. Moreover, they did not learn that arbitrary and frequently altered opinions affect the person who formed the opinion, lose his credibility very quickly, and become frivolous. [[19.00]] And the frivolousity of the government to represent Hungary has harmful consequences for all of us. Let us briefly look at what has happened to Heineken and the red star in recent years. Minister Lazarus said that there would have been a civilized solution. Indeed, there would have been when the government entered into a strategic agreement with Heineken in 2014. In this context, many things have been agreed, at least that is what we assume, because the agreement is not public. But certainly not about one thing: the red star on the label. At the time, in 2014, they had no problem with the red star, although the red star was already a forbidden symbol of authoritarianism. Let us quote the words of our current foreign minister Péter Szijjártó, which he said at the time of the strategic agreement. This international company builds on the tradition of a long-standing domestic industry, which also strengthens the Hungarian economy and its performance by using the most modern technology possible. In 2015, when the expansion of Heineken's Sopron factory was inaugurated, Minister Péter Szijjártó also said: "The brewery is at the forefront of innovation in Hungary, because it not only introduces new products to the market, but also strengthens the role of economic and job creation, as 80% of the suppliers of the Hungarian factory are Hungarian. The picantry of the situation is increased by the fact that Péter Szijjártó did his words in the company of people who were clearly and clearly decorated with a red star, both front and back. You can find nice pictures of this on kormany.hu today as well. So no one was disturbed by the use of the forbidden authoritarian symbol, no one was offended by the red star as a symbol of the communist regime that crippled Hungary. In my view, the only reason for this is that the current governing parties were never interested in condemning the communist past. They have never been offended by the communist symbol system, as they have also been enriched by the remnants of that particular communist system, the representatives of that particular communist system are still sitting in their ranks, often in dominant positions, and the traditions of that particular communist system continue today in the everyday exercise of power. For you, the victims and victims of the communist regime are only voters. Only statistical data in the election formula. Those who are spoken with honey and glamour, if they feel the need, abuse their grievances and sensibilities in order to obtain their votes. When it could or should have been done to explore the communist past, the current governing parties have always avoided action and honest confession. Therefore, they did not once stand with Jobbik when the use of the red star as a forbidden authoritarian symbol led us to press charges on several occasions. They calmly observed that the D.A.'s office had turned down these charges by circumventing the laws. That's why Béla Biszku was able to live quietly under your government and take on his blood-deserved pension. That is why György Mátsik, the blood prosecutor, who requested the death penalty for Péter Mansfeld, can live his life in peace today. He's taking on the luxury pension today, too, so it doesn't hurt your conscience. The best part of your fight is that Bence Rétvári sits here in Parliament once a year in a T-shirt that remembers Peter Mansfeld, and that's how he gets justice against the victims of communism. But to act as a member of the government against György Mátsik, who sent Péter Mansfeld to his death, this man's stomach is too delicate. Minister Lazarus said that the protection of human dignity is very important. That's what I think. What I don't understand is why it hasn't been important in the last seven years. Why was it not important when Jobbik repeatedly raised his word and, as I said, reported sales in places where there are many tourists, in the Váci Street, in the Castle and everywhere where products with forbidden authoritarian symbols are sold? In a country where almost all families are affected by the communist dictatorship, which has had many victims. And we could also give examples that you are great anti-communist warriors in words, but in actions, what you are doing on this issue is almost zero. As a result of three government cycles, we have not even succeeded in naming the sinners of the repressive communist regime. Three cycles were not enough to settle the agent issue in a satisfactory manner. Three cycles were not enough to account for the leaders, beneficiaries and dictatorship directors of the state party, so the leaders known to everyone. They now present to us the proposal for a strict ban on the red star, with reference to the fact that the display of authoritarian symbols for commercial purposes and thus the stealthy social acceptance are a kind of legitimization of the former symbol system of dictatorships. Ladies and gentlemen, this is pure hypocrisy. Jobbik Hungary Movement is aware of the market share of Heineken in Hungary and the world. We are also aware that this company, during the raging of communist dictatorships, has changed the red star in its trademark between 1951 and 1991, because of the symbol acquired by the communist dictatorships. Heineken then stated that it did not wish to identify with these dictatorships. That is precisely why it would have been justified that when you entered into a strategic agreement with this company, you would have asked for the same. Then tell them how seriously this affects people in Hungary. How many people have suffered from this red star in this country. In all likelihood, your request might have been answered. But you didn't care then. They didn't take care of it at the time. The task of the State should be to create transparent, stable relations so that Hungarian SMEs can get air and start on a stable development path - we absolutely agree on that - and large multinational companies can operate with a reasonable profit. These are the goals that similar laws should serve. The market behaviour of Heineken could essentially be influenced through customer habits. If you do not like the way you behave against Hungarian SMEs, then there are a number of instruments at the disposal of both the government and the institutional system, the chambers and professional organisations to reduce harmful market behaviour. What have they done in the case of Heineken, for example, in recent years if they have experienced such harmful market behaviour? Nothing but a strategic agreement, of course. So there is a lot to say and a lot to discuss about this law, but your responsibility is inevitable. Knowing the infinitely corrupt practice of the current government, we cannot accept that you put a pass in this bill which, in a manner of speaking, may grant an exemption from the scope of this law on an individual basis. What are the appropriate criteria on the basis of which the exemption is granted? Who's gonna decide to grant the acquittal? What procedure will the decision be made? Will the details of the procedures relating to this exemption be known? These are all questions that should be answered to you. The memory of the horrors of dictatorships and the victims' grievances of the Jobbik Hungary Movement wants to deal with them in the right place after they have entered the government. As far as the search for sinners is concerned, we are already doing everything we can to ensure that the guilty party is punished. In the case of the bill before us, we have no choice but to support it in the current situation. We have tabled amendments, please accept them. One of our amendments in the bill would remove the possibility of giving individual consideration to those privileged who are able to get close to you to hear their request. We believe that the ban on the use of the red star as an authoritarian symbol or other authoritarian symbols should not be a matter of individual consideration; everyone in Hungary should be subject to the same laws: equal laws and equal rights. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-03-20-247	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the LMP has not set up a lead speaker, so we are now at the end of the speaker speeches. It is possible to comment on an independent representative. I give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs, who was the first to apply. Here you go.
u2017-03-20-248	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's kind of hard to talk after these speeches. On the one hand, I appreciate the fact that the Minister stood up as rapporteur and made it clear that this is not a communist dictatorship and the rest. This is about the campaign against Heineken or the action, and I'll say a few words about it. I'm telling you, that's why I appreciate it, because this sort of, typical of a certain person, a company, in a case-related amendment to the law, they always ask themselves on the pro-government side why we should name it, let's say, lex Heineken. Well, for what the Minister said. You can't argue with that from now on. [[19.10]] I'm sorry you didn't discuss it with each other within the faction, because you're speaking in a completely different register, Mr. Vejkey. Perhaps it would have been appropriate to clarify that. I will not stop, I do not want to take this very much in this direction, but for the second time today, Mr Vejkey, Member, has been given a text that I do not understand why he is reading. If you read these texts calmly later, you will realize that this register that you are using today is very, very close to what you can hear in the Master Hannibal of Zoltán Fábri's Master Muray at Camp Töhötöm. So this is a very, very dangerous direction. I appreciate Mr. Congressman, by the way, because of his work, I really ask you to consider this. But to get back to the original subject: here much has been said, but let us make it factually clear that the use of authoritarian symbols is prohibited in Hungary. It is included in the Criminal Code, of course, with the conclusion that, if this is capable of disturbing public rest and violating the human dignity or the right of mercy of the victims. I think that this is a very precise and good wording of how we should relate to authoritarian symbols, because, in general, banning certain symbols is not very possible, because it is always very important what content is attached to it. Moreover, the development of symbols is such that at times certain symbols return and return, not because there is continuity between those who use it and what it is used for, but simply a system in the history of mankind that symbols have a plural meaning in some cases. And it's not some conspiracy or conspiracy, it's just how people work in such a visual culture, whether it's a star or an arrow or something. We know very well where and how, for example, the swastika was mined in Nazi Germany and before. This is the result of the problem that many people have referred to here, but it is also included in the text of the proposal that the decision of the Strasbourg court and the Hungarian Constitutional Court has led to the legislative regulation, which I have referred to earlier, and what many of my fellow Members have already referred to here, namely that it is not possible to ban certain symbols in general, and this is a very important principle of law. This is what the current amendment goes against, because it is actually a general prohibition, with the conclusion that if someone asks, they can turn to the government with a need not to apply for it, they will consider it, and if they agree with it, they will give him the truth, if not. It's the other way around, so they turned this whole thing upside down. And we've come to the point where we're actually talking about the debacle between Heineken and Ciuc Beer. I do not want to deal with this for a long time, and everything has already been said by my fellow Members. This has many readings. Indeed, it can be read that the small Hungarian Szekler company is fighting against the great multi; this narrative also has a certain truth content. It can also be translated by the small Hungarian Szekler company stealing the trademark of the large international company; it also has a certain truth content. Then there are rumors in Transylvania that this particular company, which operates on Csíkszentsimon, owns quite a large part of a Dutch company, by the way, so there are rumors that it actually has oligarch money close to Fidesz; it may even have truth in this, so I have no idea. The point is that there are many narratives of this story, and I think that it leads in a very wrong direction if we want to intervene in the debate of the two companies by legislation in the Hungarian Parliament. However, there are courts in a rule of law that if they have an argument, then they should go to court, take their lawyers, argue, and whoever is right will win. There's no other way to solve this. Here Minister pointed out that, for example, Heineken did not want to resolve the matter in such a way as to negotiate. Not for nothing, but it happened exactly by putting the table on Heineken. So on the part of the government, it was a communication boom immediately after a certain court decision in Romania that was difficult to perceive differently. Where I grew up when I was a kid, when someone went into the pub and started kicking the table, it didn't surprise me if they beat him up afterwards. So it's hard to say after that, but I come in peace. That's the main problem. After all, we are talking about the government's strategic partner, which has been said here several times. I do not think that it was possible not to sit down and invite a high-ranking employee of the Board or Presidency in the Netherlands, invite some manager of this company in Szentsimon, and start talking about how to resolve this. Because obviously it's no good for anyone, let's face it. This situation, which has evolved, is not good for the beer factory in Heineken, which is owned by Heineken, is not good for the manufacturer of the Real Ciuc Beer, it is not good for the Hungarians who live there, it is not good for the Hungarians in Hungary, and it is not good for us, because it is not really the competence of the Hungarian Parliament. The government would have the competence to help solve this problem or to help negotiate it. But I don't think it's going to lead anywhere if we use a trademark to respond to it and try to force it. 'Cause what's gonna happen? But I'm serious right now. If we do this to Heineken for a long time, what will happen? You're closing the Sopron Brewery, for example? Or, I don't know, sell it to someone? Where do they even think he's gonna run off to? It's really hard to do this, I think, whatever to say, and obviously not thought through by those who tabled this bill, because such a political campaign, or, I don't know, such a communication catch, is great, and I can sign this, and build on it a lot of things that fit into the national strategy of the ruling parties, and I can go on for a long time. However, this is basically an economic issue, from which we should come out in the end without hurting anyone, not those two companies, not the Hungarian Parliament, which we say will make a decision, let us assume that we will accept it. What will the consequences be? I can guarantee that the European Union will not approve this, and not because they are consorting and they are trying to hurt us, but simply does not comply with the standards under which we operate together here in Europe. Unfortunately, that's what's gonna happen. Thank you for listening.
u2017-03-20-249	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No one's applied for a two-minute speech. There will now be further speeches. As the first speaker to be announced, the MSZP representative, Mr Gergely Bárándy, may speak. Here you go. [[19.20]]
u2017-03-20-250	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this proposal, as many have done, should be divided and approached from two sides. In the first place, I would like to make a fundamental point before I do this separation, as far as the symbols of authoritarianism are concerned. I think that after all these years, we do not need to prove it, because a series of legislative proposals prove that the authoritarian symbols on our part - but I can also say that for my part - we treat them as one, treat them the same way, and separate ourselves from them in the same way, whether it be the right-wing dictatorship, left-wing dictatorship, or I can now say that the dictatorship that exists today is now. In the same way, I note that I also appreciate authoritarian symbols on my part. If Strasbourg sees it differently, I do not agree with it, but I am convinced that it only partially sees it differently, but only in a very small part sees it differently. I think that if we were not living in Hungary, but, say, in France or Italy, then there would be grounds for discussing whether the swastika or the red star should be mentioned or not on the same page. In countries where we were suffering from both dictatorships, and where events related to both dictatorships have violated human dignity, human life, there is no way to distinguish between these symbols. The symbolism of Nazism must be judged in the same way as the symbolism of communism. I think this should be a starting point. The second is that when we talk about this proposal, it is indeed the division of these two themes. Minister Lazarus has put forward a very compelling legal argument, but the only problem - my fellow Members have said this - is that this proposal is about something else. I can also say that the real political and legislative intention was hidden behind a symbolic case. He's very good, you might say, but he's just not fair. As long as we are discussing symbolic issues here in Parliament, which are very important, and I am not going to bypass them, this proposal is in fact all about János Lázár and the government being in conflict with Heineken because of the Ciuc Beer, so he is using his power to teach the owners of the brewery a lesson by law. That is quite simply what this proposal is about. If anyone has any doubts about this, and would still be willing - once again I say - to overcome the argument in the clever expozee that the purpose of this bill is twofold, let us look at what is reality, my fellow Members. What happened first, the chicken or the egg? What was the actuality? Let's get out of this. There's no question that the Heineken case, because there hasn't been any recent events in the world about the red star in the past. In other words, the attack had to find some kind of device, and this device was found in this symbolic case by you who presented this bill. In other words, it is not a double goal, it is a target-to- device relationship. The goal is to teach Heineken a lesson, and they were able to find it as a tool. So it's a shame to say more sublime sentences in this regard. It is a clear legislative objective, a clear legislative objective, and it would actually be almost unnecessary to go further. I have no idea what the fate of this bill will be, and that the competent authorities - since Minister Lazarus said that there will be a consultation on this subject with the competent authorities of the European Union - will judge this, I do not know, because they know that this is a legislative intention, but they cannot treat it this way. They are obliged to stick to the written text of the law, and here - once again - I do not know what will happen, but as a lawyer, I am extremely interested. However, the reason for the referral is unacceptable. As one of my fellow Members has said, it is indeed a dictatorship where I intervene in market conditions by using my government and legislative rights and, in practice, using them as a club in this debate, as my fellow Member Burány said. And that really fits the line that my fellow Member has said. But let's not go around the symbolic issue, either. I think that Minister Lazarus, although I say once again that his argument was sound and good, is wrong and wrong. No one has said that the right to political expression is stronger than the right to human dignity. The Strasbourg court said - and I agree with that - that it is not always possible to automatically assume that this right is stronger than the other one. Moreover, the Constitutional Court's necessity and proportionality test is practically about this. To sum up, one fundamental right can only be limited in so far as it is absolutely necessary for the other to prevail. This is the necessity and proportionality test. This is also what the Strasbourg court applies in this respect. So they treat the right to political expression stronger than we do in Hungary in the application of Hungarian constitutional and judicial law, but it is not an absolute right. To contrast, therefore, whether there is a difference between political and commercial expression, and because there is, therefore, a justification for this proposal, it leads to a misrepresentation because political expression is not considered either - once again - an absolute right, and in many cases it is considered to be limited in the interest of the right to human dignity. Ladies and gentlemen, consider that the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg has not changed its judgment and decisions in the case of Holocaust denial. It is also about a statement that violates human dignity, such as the right to political expression, where the right to human dignity is found stronger by the Strasbourg-based court than the right to political expression. I think it's worth going a little further on this subject. Because what is it that we want to protect, can I say, what is the legal object to protect? Well, what the minister was talking about, and what the speakers were talking about, is human dignity. Then is it not the question, honourable Members, whether they violate human dignity or not? It doesn't matter, because, by what means, by what method, human dignity is hurt or not harmed? That's why I said and I say that in a legal matter, we should summarize any manifesto of abusive nature, all of them, be it verbal, be it by the gesture of the hand, be it by the symbol. I'm here to emphasize the symbol, and not just the symbol of authoritarianity. Have you ever thought about remembering the hungarian cog on the hand? He insulted the Jewish people just as much, even all the good people as the swastika or the SS badge. And why is that? Because it was referring to that ideal world. And tomorrow, these groups will come up with something else. And when they put the Holy Crown on their arms, do we ban it? Or are we banning the gear? Because it's not about using a symbol, saying words, using a gesture, using a symbol of authoritarianity, but why I do it, I want to insult human dignity, or I don't want to violate human dignity with it. [[19.30]] If someone puts the swastika in a closed circle at a neo-Nazi convention, you know what? I say do it. If anyone at the communist convention, where everyone's a communist, puts up the red star, so do it. But if one holds up the same symbols when the Jewish people come out of the synagogue on Saturday, or takes the red star to commemoration of the '56 commemoration, then there it does violate human dignity. And not simply, simply a political opinion. But the same is true when he uses such expressions and words. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I hardly believe that when someone buys the Heineken at the store, he suddenly means a violation of human dignity. I can accept it, and I consider it a legitimate debate if we think about it. It's just not on the pretext that Heineken and I want to mess with it, but regardless. And then you can think of something like that. I used to propose a bill. The government has accepted another. And do you know what is interesting, my fellow Members, for that matter? And look at yourselves for a second. What's in force today in Btk. is much more acceptable than my proposal. Because the government and then the pro-government majority accepted the Btk. paragraph concerning the prohibition of authoritarian symbols in such a way that it must be capable of disrupting public rest. Now, ladies and gentlemen, this legislation is practically inapplicable. It's inapprehensible. Especially if you consider what the court practice is about disturbing public peace, I'm guessing there won't be much of a case like this in the future. Instead of unitedly trying to ban the conduct, the purposeful acts that deliberately violate the human dignity of certain people or certain social groups, and making this crime targeted in the Btk., we would be exceptionally partners with you. Instead, we make laws that make no sense. 'Cause again, it's not gonna get us anywhere. Do you really think that it will make the world better in Hungary because three companies will not be able to label any product with a red star on it? Let's not joke. Let us try to create laws that are truly capable of sanctioning acts that violate human dignity in communities. This law is not suitable for this. And then I'm really just going back to the point of saying that that's not why it was put forward. This is the biggest shame of the Parliament and its signatories. A symbolic issue that is very important to many people is used for simple economic manipulation. That is what I call shameful, and we will therefore not support this proposal. I spoke so long, and I went on the question of the image of the authoritarian symbols - because, of course, I know the Habony works, they will obviously go to the fact that the MSZP did not support the ban on the red star, obviously because they are communists and they love this symbol - so that at least here in Parliament you or at least the record, the posterity should be clear why we do not do it. I think it would be good for you to use these three months to consider whether a question of such weight, such a symbolic matter, which is really about human dignity, people's good feeling, their fears, their past, is being used to serve such an unacceptable cause. Think about it. You've got three months. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-20-251	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Representative Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz, asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2017-03-20-252	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On this matter, I would like to try to establish a common basis for why this proposal is here and why I have joined this proposal myself. I think that there has been a lot of talk in today's debate, and I think that there have been quite good legal arguments, but I would like to bring an important point to this House, and this is basically the idea of trade policy for the large international companies and the achievement of their objectives. From now on, it is relatively easy to establish a basis for the question of how a Ciuc Beer case is related to the red star on the product marketed by certain multinational companies in Hungary. This debate can be seen from a commercial policy perspective, and the question can be asked whether the large international companies, whether they are traders, should be the producers that are basically the XX. As a result of the history of the century, they are located to the west of us, to the extent to which they are sensitive, how they relate to Central European nations within the common framework of the European Union, the national sensitivities there, the XX. For what happened in the first century. I have to say that this case is related from Csíkszentsimon to Sopron, if we could figuratively bring the two points of the Carpathian Basin here. Unfortunately, not only in this case, the large international companies operating in Hungary, mainly Western European trade chains and the distribution of them, have absolutely no regard for the sensitivity of Hungarian consumers, they are in many respects unaware or not interested in an important national issue, which is important for Hungarians, an understanding of a genuine Ciuc Beer and the whole relationship there. They think they're gonna go beyond that, they think that for them, it's XX. This type of events of the century, which is important for us Hungarians, is simply not a business aspect, does not reach their threshold and they simply do not deal with it. I could now bring in other current cases in the area of trade policy, where this goes back. Here, perhaps in a few weeks, we will see how and what they are really marketing in terms of food to the west of the Lajta and east of the Lajta. I know it seems to be two very different things. But when you think about it, both are about the fact that these international companies, whose history is different - and I can perhaps agree with my fellow Member, Barándy, that it may indeed be that the perception of a red star in Spain and Italy is different from that of Central Europe - but God bless these multinationals, so we joined the European Union, and here these communists were only here for 45 years! And if they want to market products here, or if they are in a dispute in Szeklerland, then we can force them to do something, and I have no illusion that with this law we will change the world now, but precisely because of its symbolism, it is essential that we are Central Europeans, and from this point of view to Warsaw and Ljubljana, it is possible to make them realize that this specialized region, where Hungary is, has national sensibilities, has national affairs that they cannot overcome, they cannot do what they are doing. So if you'll excuse me, I see the case from a slightly different perspective. This may also be due to the fact that I deal in trade. I can say yes, it's a debate. There is a debate in the European Union on whether or not trade can be regulated at all; whether, for example, it is possible to introduce rules for trade requiring them to prohibit certain symbols of authoritarianism. I could make a few more examples of trade policy in which the Hungarian Government is in dispute with the European Union, and it is all about the fact that, by the way, there is a political doctrine in Western Europe that trade is one of the four principles of freedom in the European Union, and that states, nations, have no business with this regulation, and that is fine as it is, and trade will solve itself. [[19.40]] I see it from a different perspective, and it seems more and more that it is gaining ground or support in the European Union, that it is indeed necessary to introduce certain rules in trade. Indeed, we Central Europeans here must demand that these international multinationals acknowledge the special historical cases that include Hungary, where, for example, a Ciuc Beer can be placed on a platform in Hungary using a red star. The question could be asked, although I agree here that sometimes it is really bad to go through Váci Street, because there are souvenir shops that actually make a business out of it, but someone should show me a Hungarian manufacturer or a Central European manufacturer who would think of selling his product with a red star, except now such souvenir shops - I can't do that. I wouldn't have seen any Polish, Hungarian, Bulgarian or Romanian producer, i.e. producers in countries that are working on several major markets, thinking about putting products on the market with such symbols. I can say that, yes, this is a national or regional feature, and in this respect I think that we can and should send a message to those multinational companies, whether they are traders or manufacturers, that yes, if we seriously believe that there is no double standard in the European Union and that we are full citizens of the European Union, we must not only demand that we bring products of the same quality to Germany, but also demand that even if we know that they did not have a communist dictatorship, and that their red star may mean something other than ours, but because we have full rights, equal citizens, we must think of ourselves here in Hungary, so we must send them a message that they do, if they want to sell it here, if they want to sell it from our forints anyway, I ask them to trade fairly, then these national interests, whether we are talking about Sopron or Székelyland, they should take them into account. I do not agree either, and I apologise, and I do not want to hurt my fellow opposition Members, but I could not decide, in the context of Mr Burány's speech, that we are now conducting such a beer test, which is better beer or which is not better beer, forgive me, I could not quite interpret that in his speech. That is not what I think this debate is about. In fact, I understand the speech by my fellow right-wing Members, but it is really difficult to choreograph that 14 minutes of the 15-minute speech will be filled with general government criticism, and then the last minute will essentially support the proposal with certain amendments. I am fundamentally happy about this, because I think that there is such a minimum common basis, but in this case there are certain objectives, I think, that we really need to set them together on the national side, and I really can say that this is a symbolic issue. Yes, even if we may doubt how the European Union will take it, if we may doubt that Heineken will not be crushed because of this, but I think this bill is certainly suitable, which in many other cases is a feature of large multinational companies that are insensitive to the history of Central Europeans, insensitive to the sensitivity of people living here, to the historical pain of people living here. This can and must be done with this bill, and I therefore support the proposal not only because I have joined it, but also because of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-20-253	Thank you very much. Representatives who have already spoken would like to speak again. Congressman György Szilágyi is the first among these. Here you go.
u2017-03-20-254	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Kristóf Szatmáry's speech made me want to comment again, because I could agree on a lot of things, because Kristóf Szatmáry told me how the multinationals are interested in Hungary, how they are interested in Hungarian businesses or the Hungarian economy, what their goal is. And indeed, the market behaviour of Heineken is the same as that of any other unscrupulous multinational capital company. Their goal is profit at any cost, it's clear. By its size, strength and weight, it does not allow competing small and medium-sized enterprises to grow up, thus hurting our national interests, serving its own interests. Unfortunately, this is the market, the Hungarian market, which you have played a very important role in the development of the so-called regime change. This is what the Hungarian market was designed to do today in Hungary. What I don't understand is, if you see this now, then in 2014, when you made a strategic agreement with this company, didn't you see it? You didn't see him in 2015? You haven't seen anything to do with multinational companies in the last seven years? Is it always when you want to achieve something when you want to drag individual legislation on a company or a person, that's when you see these problems? That's my problem with Fidesz-KDNP, by the way, that I know that you know exactly what you're doing. So you're not mismanaging, you're very conscious of what you're doing, and you're consciously destroying the country because you see, you see, you know, and you know what's going on with Lurch the Butcher and what's going on with the others. You see corruption accurately, you see everything in this country. And are we talking about raising our voice, says Kristóf Szatmáry, with regard to the EU or multinational companies? Viktor Orbán, your prime minister, has just stated that on Jobbik's initiative, when we are talking about Eastern-Central Europe, where the goods are clearly realised, because there is the same price for different foods and products as in Western Europe, and the Wages Union has not been realised, because people working in the same multinational company are paid a quarter of the same salary for the same work as in Western Europe, when Jobbik starts to fight this and brings together a unit of nine countries that we wish to take action against the European Union, and we are trying to force them to address this issue, because it is not possible that these countries are second-class citizens of the European Union, then Viktor Orbán, your Prime Minister, states that he is not interested in this topic, he will not stand by Jobbik. Well, those words and actions are what I keep talking about! And the fact that, say, I had something to say in 14 out of 15 minutes, but that was only the time, I said what is your concern on this issue, unfortunately, is the reality. I would have preferred only to mention, when we were performing, say, in matters of forbidden authoritarian symbols, how great a vehemency you stood up for Jobbik, how you stood up and insulted, let us say, the prosecution of Péter Polt, the right to reject the allegations that have the basis for using forbidden symbols of authoritarianism in Hungary. But you were quiet. Many times, the D.A.'s office illegally, by the way, cheating the laws, as if they didn't understand what the laws were about, rejected these charges - you were silent. That's why I brought up Mr. Secretary of State of Retvári as an example. He sits here every year in a Mansfeld Peter T-shirt because he stands up for Péter Mansfeld. When our complaint against György Mátsik was dismissed by the D.A., he was silent. When we're supposed to join us to say we're taking away these people's luxury pensions, he's quiet. Is this to be accounted for? No! We would like, indeed - and so, as Kristóf Szatmáry said - to have a basis, a minimum that we all accept, and we would say, for example, if such a basis could be that in Hungary, a country where the victims of communism are present in almost all families... - because when we talk about the victims of communism, we should not only think of the people who were murdered, imprisoned, taken to málenkaj robot, forced labour or anything, but also of those who could not have lived that whole life because, let's say, they were on the B-list and could not further learn, who could not have completed their lives because they were unreliable, say, from the point of view of the dictatorship at that time. [[19.50]] These people are just as victims who could have been doctors, lawyers or anyone else, but they couldn't have learned any more. In Hungary, I believe, there are very few families that are not involved in the communist dictatorship and have no negative experience. How many people live on farming, who know and see in the eyes of their grandparents the pain they have caused them? Every family has it. And then we could say that the European Union does not define how sensitive Hungarian society is to the red star. Do not be determined by the European Union, we are not told in Brussels or Strasbourg. Of course, they're not so sensitive, because they didn't have a communist dictatorship. We had it. Let us decide how sensitive our society is to these dictatorships. That is why I said that there should not be a double standard, which we forbid the authoritarian symbols of dictatorships, which we also forbid and cannot use any of them. 'Cause if we leave the loopholes, it's never gonna be a good thing. That is why we would like to ask you, and that is why we have said that we should ask you to take into account the amendment that removes the loophole from this bill, in order to consider individual interests, to waive the possibility of using authoritarian symbols or not. I cannot give you an individual interest that could put you above the social interest in order to use an authoritarian symbol for commercial purposes in Hungary. Why would it be? Most of society is violated by the use of an authoritarian symbol - then there is no individual interest that can exempt it. We believe that this should be taken into account. What makes me say we have fears is, unfortunately, the last seven years again. If we look at the last seven years, we see that, at this moment, the government wants to intervene again with state resources in the market, once again. If this were the first case, we wouldn't have any fears, but we've had experience in the last seven years, we've seen in recent years what state intervention means in market relations translated into Fidesz's language. All we have to do is think about the tramps, just think about the gambling, just think about the land traffic. Fidesz wanted a market for himself, for friends, for relatives. Fidesz wants to use the state assets again, and we fear that there is also some individual intention behind it again, not only in relation to Heineken and Ciuc Beer, but there are other interests in Hungary. And I said that if the aim of this was to strengthen Hungarian SMEs and air them against multinationals, then there is no problem, but unfortunately we always have to think about what certain laws are for, why they are born now, why they didn't think of you first. And the arbitrary influence of market players by legislation also creates uncertainty, so this should always be taken into account. And it increases the possibility of corruption, the corruption rate that has unfortunately been introduced and achieved in Hungary over the last seven years is simply outrageous and is already strangling Hungary. That's why I said in my speech, and that's why I couldn't avoid that there really was a generation of adults in this country that we didn't teach them what the red star meant; which we didn't teach what the communist dictatorship meant; which we couldn't teach because we didn't tell them enough, and we didn't have the right education, what it meant, let's say, to live in the Kádár system, and they don't understand that right now the same air, the same milieu, surrounds them, the same thing that surrounds them in the Kádár system. We're going towards the same one-party system, the only difference is that it was called socialism at the time, and this is now a system of national cooperation. And you don't see it either. And I believe in your good intentions that you wanted to break up with communist traditions. Viktor Orbán and his system are no better than the system of János Kádár, we are going the same way, there are the same small kings living in the country, only now they are not called the President of the Council, but they are buying an iks moon land, and they are a big owner, or I don't know what you call them, the Hungarian entrepreneurs. They're the same, little kings, council presidents, your mayors. [[Sándor Burány: Voldemort!]] The same system, the same system was built. And we want it not to be, for once, a change of regime in this country. This country needs a real change of regime, and we hope that we will bring this change of regime in 2018. And you'll see how much the world will change then. But we don't have to do great things, we just have to eliminate corruption, and we have to put an end to the privileged system that you have developed, that the people of the party are above the people, they are privileged, they can do anything, and the people are only used as a means to possess their power. That's what we want to stop. We hope that we will end it in 2018, that if there is a Jobbik government, we will certainly be more careful about such laws, and in all likelihood we will define the goals and try to achieve the goals that we will describe in the general statement of reasons and not want to achieve things in relation to others. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-20-255	Thank you very much. Mr Sándor Burány next, MSZP.
u2017-03-20-256	Thank you very much for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. I am not trying to respond in two minutes to some of the things that have come up in the debate, because everything I would like to say may not be possible in the two minutes, but I promise I will be concise, at least I will try. My fellow Member, Mr Fidesz, did not fully understand where my idea of the real Ciuc Beer was going. I'll try to explain it to you one more time. In his expo, Minister Lazarus said that no one should mess around with forbidden symbols of authoritarianism - and I'll get back to that - well, I would add, no one should mess with my patriotism. It may be a patriotic duty that the Hungarian government, the Hungarian state, says that among the Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin, businesses are supported by certain means which do not violate other rights. To stand up for a particular product is not necessarily a patriotic duty, be the product good and sellable. In this discussion, I was just trying to suggest that in this particular triangle, the owner of the company that produces Ciuc Beer is one of the elements of this triangle, the Romanian subsidiary of Heineken, as the other element of this triangle, and the representatives of the government, for the sake of simplicity, the third element of the triangle, none of which is spotless and none is without sin. The two companies are seeking their own profits in the first place, and in relation to the Hungarian company, in connection with the company that produces the Real Ciuc Beer, I expressed our reservation that an overpriced product should not want to gain profits just because it applies to my patriotism, my patriotism. Patriotism isn't for dealing as much as anything else. As for the red star: Minister Lazarus did not attempt to explain for a reason how, then, he understood that the red star should not be used for trade or, in general, for authoritarian symbols - in the case of Heineken, this is a red star - should not be used for trade. Because with the original definition, the majority of governments would not be able to do anything legally, since fear and stumbling does not necessarily result in the Heineken beer and Milky Way chocolate and the San Pellegrino mineral water family. I have tried to shed light on this with the analogy that the aggressive behaviour of drunken cheerleaders has often led to scandal in the country or fear in other normal fans or, where appropriate, street walkers, but never has Heineken's beer aroused fear in any drunken cheerleader. So it is quite clear that the original definition, the use of it as a forbidden symbol of authoritarianism and such an attack on Heineken, would have been a legally inappropriate tool. Therefore, the authors are now trying to explain that this is a commercial use, as if the use of a red star or any other authoritarian symbol would make the product more popular. [[20.00]] This is completely illogical, completely illogical, especially in Eastern European countries. If what my fellow Members say is true, then this should be a competitive disadvantage, not an advantage that a company acquires by putting such a symbol on it. It's like saying that Mercedes is popular because you like its logo, or BMW is popular because you like its logo, or Rolls Royce, or Jaguar brands are popular because they like their logo. No, people buy them because they're satisfied with the product, nota bene, they have the money, because these car brands are not for small-time people. The other issue is that these symbols, these brands, brands, logos are aimed at discrimination. When you go into a store and you line up the beers on the shelf, you don't take off a Heineken because you're looking for the red star, but it's easy to tell the difference from any other beer next to it, it's easy to get to know the mark. As a representative of the brand, this is a distinguishing sign, but this alone will not encourage the consumption of more Heineken. Who in Hungary takes a Heineken off the shelf to drink because it has a red star on it? Seriously, no one can say that. So from this point of view, I don't think the bartering stops legally, but I'm not a lawyer. I wish you the best of luck in this trial. What I object to is what my better fellow Member mentioned before me in the conduct of the majority of governments. If you want to favor someone, say, Andy Vajna, you will without hesitation pass a law that favors Andy Vajna. If you want to punish the RTL Club, you will submit without hesitation a bill that will damage the RTL Club for billions. And if you're having an argument with Heineken right now, you're going to unhesitatingly submit a bill that Heinekenen wants to hit a big one if it succeeds. In other words, this kind of attitude, the policy of the club, that because I have a majority in the Hungarian Parliament, I can do it individually to favour people, groups of companies, or to punish them directly, this kind of power in a rule of law is completely unacceptable. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy applauds.]]
u2017-03-20-257	Kristóf Szatmáry, Member Fidesz, asked for a two-minute speech. Here.
u2017-03-20-258	Thank you very much for the floor. I would not want to have a long debate, but a few comments for my fellow Member, Mr Burány. I wouldn't want to argue with you, but I would suggest that we isolate anyone here from the other side with a national symbol. We're talking about a company in Szeklerland, and it's different to selling Ciuc beer over there. In Hungary, no one would advertise themselves with the real Baranyai Beer or the real Pécsi Beer, although it may be the case, because it has a different overall effect. I ask my fellow Member that if he goes to Szeklerland - the symbolism of the national existence of Hungarians there is difficult for us to judge from here, and I would ask for a little tolerance, because it means something different than here, and I think we should accept it. By the way, I wonder what the reaction would be if, say, Soproni beer was called Ödenburg beer, and they wanted to market it under that name in Hungary, but that leads far away, I wouldn't go into that. Actually, I wanted to respond to my colleague Szilágyi. Excuse me, let me ask myself what you said. So to say that this government hasn't fought the multinationals in the last seven years, I have a million examples, because of the shortness of time, I won't do it, I'm sorry, it's insulting. What is more, you compare the current government with the Kádár system, I hope you do not mean it, but if you mean it, then don't be angry, but I think it is very ignominious; not only because there are Members here who are offended, but there are 2.5 to 3 million people that you insult. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-20-259	Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Congressman Szilágyi in two minutes, please.
u2017-03-20-260	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I believe that from where you are sitting right now, you find it strange that we are comparing Viktor Orbán's system to the Kádár system, but if you took off the blinders that Fidesz causes you, you would see that they are doing nothing but going towards the one-party system. You want a one-party system in Hungary, only Fidesz, it has already been said in words, and from now on we are only one step away from trying to - now in principle only within the legal framework and then perhaps outside the legal framework - to prevent another party from being in this country; we are going this way. I would like to say to Sándor Burány that if someone is hurt or not hurt by the red star, let him decide. You know, it's like that, and I told you that unfortunately, we didn't teach or tell our young people how much trouble and depravity it meant in this country, what serious crimes it meant and what they did under the aegis of the red star. You can see these from there, and I do it a lot, by the way, that when I see a man in a Che Guevara T-shirt, I always ask him why it's good for him to have a mass murderer on his chest. At that moment, these young people are thinking, because they don't even know they've got a mass murderer on their chests, they just think it's a trend to, say, wear a Che Guevara T-shirt. Then when you tell him, say, what Che Guevara might have done, he might not wear these shirts so much after that. So if we were to teach and tell you what they did in this country under the aegis of the red star, then perhaps the logo of this beer would be equally shocking, but now, at this moment, you may be right not to create so much fear; I do not, because I do not want to - even if the former leader will be called Viktor Orbán - even if the former leader will be called Viktor Orbán. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] - to return the red star to Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-20-261	Honourable Members, Anybody else want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask the national representatives if they wish to speak. [[For signal:]] They're signaling it's not now. Therefore, I would like to inform you that it is possible to submit the amendments by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time to speak after the agenda. Congressman Sebestyén Vágó, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech:. Back at the Pető Institute, will the whip strike? It's an address. Here.
u2017-03-20-262	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the last few days, the name of the Pető Institute has been in the press again, but unfortunately not in the light and context that we would expect, that is to say, that the press would recognise the merits of the development and teaching of people with disabilities, but that we were once again able to meet the name of the institution in connection with a negative news. He went to the press because a large number of conduktors resigned at the same time, because the institution unilaterally modified their contract of employment at the request of the chancellor. When we talk about the Pető Institute, most people mainly think about an institution where they deal with children, but let's not forget that they have a department where they deal with 100-120 adults. These people are usually in an accident or a disease where they need to be dealt with, possibly due to autoimmune disease, whether they are talking about Parkinson's disease or multiple sclerosis. There were seven conduktors working in this department. Out of the seven consultants, four have resigned as a result of the contract amendment, one is transferred to another department of the institution, and two are going to retire and retire in the near future, so the number of professionals working there is actually empty. I'd like to say a few words about the method we're talking about. István Pető This method has been developed and can be applied very successfully in the cases listed above or even in the case of congenital disability. [[20.10]] Pető's method is based on a different approach, a complex approach. He didn't look at the biological background of disability, he didn't deal with biological injuries, but he discovered that man's brain and body have reserves, and if we use pedagogical methods to raise these reserves, we try to mobilize these reserves, then these people can be improved, and we can achieve very good results. On the basis of this, we can also see the skills needed to perform this task, and in addition to knowing what skills it takes to carry out this task, we can also think of the effectiveness that experience and the years spent on this course can bring. The chancellor's reason for unilateral treaty amendments was that since the takeover of the State in connection with the Pető Institute, the Pető Institute has been in an illegal state since then, since the above-mentioned consultants did not qualify as teachers under the law because they did not deal with children, which is why they had to modify their contract and their working conditions. Let's see what these working conditions mean. These changes to the working conditions increase their mandatory working time, the number of working hours, and, in addition, the net income loss of between HUF 80 and 100 thousand, depending on the years spent on the track. The allegations made by the Chancellor to compensate them for the new treaty are not true, because they wouldn't be compensated under the new treaty, because they wouldn't have resigned. Many leave the work of many decades, leave the experience of many decades to lose, no matter how much they love their work, this distinction, this disadvantage they cannot take, they believe that the work they have to do is inexorable. I was just talking about how much experience, apart from expertise, counts for effective work in this area. Even though the chancellor says that they can replace a job that has ceased as a result of retirement, and six have already applied for these jobs, there will not be the quality of care that the 100 to 120 adults who have been accustomed to this situation because of some life situation are struggling with these difficulties, and this care is the only way out for them, the only reintegration. That's why I'm asking the Ministry, I'm asking the government not to support treaty amendments, but to put a bill on the table, and to support what makes these employees a pedagogue. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-20-263	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its session at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. Good evening, everyone. Good night. [[Meeting ended at 8:13 p.m.]]
